Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Hope in Syria, Pope in Cuba and dope in prison. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door:SYRIA CIVIL WARFinally some good news about Syria (and let's face it, when was the last time we used "good news" and "Syria" in the same sentence?). Looks like there may be, possibly, could be a ceasefire on the horizon . Russia and the U.S., along with other world powers, hammered out a deal that'll allow food and meds in. That's supposed to happen soon, followed by a "cessation of hostilities" within a week. IF the deal holds, it'll be the first real halt in fighting since the war began in 2011. That's a big 'if' since ISIS, that unpredictable monster, isn't part of the deal.DEMOCRATIC DEBATEWell, that was ... different. Until now the Hillary-Bernie happy hour treaded the same ground. But last night's PBS debate got decidedly testy.-- When she said Bernie's criticism of Obama is something she expects from Republicans, he responded, "One of us ran against President Obama. I was not that candidate." Points: Sanders-- When he attacked Hilz' 'yes' vote on the Iraq war, she responded, "I do not believe a vote in 2002 is a plan to defeat ISIS in 2016." Points: Hillary-- When she said you could take money from Wall Street and still go after them, he responded, "Why in God's name does Wall Street make huge campaign contributions? I guess just for the fun of it." Points: Bernie-- And when he said he was proud to call Henry Kissinger not a friend , she responded, "Well, I know journalists have asked who you do listen to on foreign policy, and we have yet to know who that is." Points: Hillary.JUST WATCHED The PBS Democratic Debate in 90 seconds Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The PBS Democratic Debate in 90 seconds 01:29PRISONSRiot act: Two guys go head to head in a northern Mexican jail and 49 people die? How does that happen? It happens when the guys are leaders of rival drug cartels and Two guys go head to head in a northern Mexican jail and 49 people die? How does that happen? It happens when the guys are leaders of rival drug cartels and their fight spirals into full-on anarchy. Back in the U.S., 46 current and former guards and staff in 9 Georgia prisons were rounded up for "staggering corruption." To wit: smuggling in booze and cell phones, carrying out drug deals, etc etc. And get this: five of the arrested were part of an elite unit responsible for ... busting drug dealers in prisons. Pot, meet kettle.JUST WATCHED Prison guards arrested in sting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Prison guards arrested in sting 02:43POLICE SHOOTINGS21 bullets: Police said he wouldn't drop his knife; that bean bags and pepper spray didn't work on him. So, they opened fire. A lot of times. Police said he wouldn't drop his knife; that bean bags and pepper spray didn't work on him. So, they opened fire. A lot of times. An autopsy report has found 21 gunshot wounds in the body of Mario Woods , a black man whose videotaped death in San Francisco last December was held up by protesters as yet another example of excessive force. The five cops involved are on admin leave. Meanwhile, the officer who shot Akai Gurkey, an unarmed black man in New York, was found guilty of manslaughter yesterday.JUST WATCHED Akai Gurley shooting: Jury finds NYPD cop guilty Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Akai Gurley shooting: Jury finds NYPD cop guilty 01:01FALLEN OFFICERSBreakfast browsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in."I'm gonna grab one more cookie, one more cigarette."-- David Fry, the last holdout the last holdout in the Oregon wildlife refuge occupation , before surrendering to police. The siege may have started with a principled stand, but it ended with a sugar and nicotine fix.When Mohan met Baha...JUST WATCHED Tiger intended to mate, gets mauled to death Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tiger intended to mate, gets mauled to death 01:38One-take wondersOK GO, those viral music video kings, does it again. This time in zero gravity.Getting her mords wixedWhat Meryl Streep wanted to say is that Hollywood needs to be more inclusive. What she said was, "We're all Africans, really." And then got a lesson in the road to hell and good intentions.Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar In the past 15 years, 17 of the 30 best actor and best actress Oscars went to performers who played a real-life figure. Meryl Streep holds the record for most acting nominations with 19, including performances as such real-life figures as Karen Silkwood, Isak Dinesen and Julia Child. She's won three Oscars, the most recent for playing Margaret Thatcher in 2011's "The Iron Lady." Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar Eddie Redmayne played astrophysicist Stephen Hawking in 2014's "The Theory of Everything." He won the best actor Oscar for the role. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar Matthew McConaughey played AIDS activist Ron Woodroof in 2013's "Dallas Buyers Club." His performance netted him a best actor Oscar over competition including Chiwetel Ojiofor ("12 Years a Slave") and Leonardo DiCaprio ("The Wolf of Wall Street"). Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar Daniel Day-Lewis has won three best actor Oscars -- two for playing real people. He won his first for 1989's "My Left Foot," playing Irish artist Christy Brown, then another for 2007's "There Will Be Blood," as fictional oilman Daniel Plainview. His most recent win was for 2012's "Lincoln," in which he played the 16th president. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar Colin Firth earned an Oscar for his performance as King George VI, a man afflicted with a speech impediment, in 2010's "The King's Speech." Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar Sean Penn played Harvey Milk, an openly gay politician and the first to be elected to public office in California, in the 2008 film "Milk." For his performance, Penn won the Oscar for best actor. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar Forest Whitaker won an Oscar for his performance as the imposing Idi Amin, the onetime ruler of Uganda, in the 2006 film "The Last King of Scotland." Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar Philip Seymour Hoffman as Truman Capote in 2004's "Capote." His Oscar-winning performance was startling in a number of ways, not least that the beefy 5-foot-10 actor managed to disappear into the 5-foot-3 Capote. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar Ray Charles proved a winning role for Jamie Foxx in 2003's "Ray." Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar Adrien Brody remains the youngest best actor Oscar winner. He was just 29 when he won for his performance as Polish pianist Wladyslaw Szpilman in 2001's "The Pianist." Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar In this scene from 2009's "The Blind Side," Quinton Aaron, playing Michael Oher, is "coached" by Sandra Bullock as Leigh Anne Tuohy. Bullock's Oscar cemented her A-list status. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar Marion Cotillard, who played Edith Piaf in 2007's "La Vie en Rose," defeated nominees such as Julie Christie ("Away From Her") and Laura Linney ("The Savages"). Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar Helen Mirren gave an Oscar-winning performance as Queen Elizabeth II during the days after Princess Diana's death in the 2006 film "The Queen." She had portrayed Queen Elizabeth I in the 2005 TV series "Elizabeth I." Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar Reese Witherspoon and Joaquin Phoenix played real-life couple June Carter and Johnny Cash in 2004's "Walk the Line." Phoenix earned a nomination for his performance; Witherspoon won. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar In a fearless performance, Charlize Theron took on the role of serial killer Aileen Wuornos in 2003's "Monster." "What Charlize Theron achieves in 'Monster' isn't a performance but an embodiment," wrote Roger Ebert. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar With her putty nose, Nicole Kidman was criticized by some for her performance as Virginia Woolf in the 2002 film "The Hours," but it earned her an Oscar. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Play a real-life figure, win an Oscar Julia Roberts earned her only Oscar for her work as real-life investigator and lawyer Erin Brockovich in the 2000 film "Erin Brockovich." Hide Caption 17 of 17The snuggle is realBearded dragons are cold-blooded. Cats are just cold. The cuddle party is cuuuute.What's for lunch?Here's what's happening later.Undoing the splitsThe Pope of the Roman Catholic Church meets with the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church in Cuba today. The last time this happened? Never.Photos: Pope Francis Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos, left, reads aloud words engraved on a pen as he meets with Pope Francis at the Vatican, Friday, December 16. The words "The bullets have written our past, education will write our future" are engraved on the pen, made from a recycled bullet once used in the civil war between the Colombian government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). The pen was later used to sign the peace agreements between the parties earlier this year. Santos, who was awarded the 2016 Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to end the region's longest-running conflict, presented Pope Francis with the pen. Hide Caption 1 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis accepts a letter from a child he visited at a pediatric hospital in Rome on Thursday, December 15. Hide Caption 2 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis poses with members of the International Catholic Rural Association at the Vatican on Saturday, December 10. Hide Caption 3 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis salutes the faithful upon his arrival in St. Peter's Square at the Vatican for the Special Jubilee Papal Audience on Saturday, October 22. Hide Caption 4 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis looks on with joy as he releases a dove as a symbol of peace during a meeting with the Assyrian Chaldean community at the Catholic Chaldean Church of St. Simon Bar Sabbae in Tbilisi, Georgia, on September 30. Hide Caption 5 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis passes the main entrance to Auschwitz-Birkenau, the former concentration camp in Poland, on Friday, July 29. The Pope was there to pay tribute to those who died in the Holocaust. Hide Caption 6 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis looks on as Catholicos of All Armenians Karekin II celebrates the Divine Liturgy at the Apostolic Cathedral in Etchmiadzin, outside Yerevan, Armenia, on June 26. Hide Caption 7 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis arrives to celebrate an extraordinary Jubilee Audience as part of ongoing celebrations of the Holy Year of Mercy in St. Peter's Square in Vatican City on May 14. Hide Caption 8 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis hugs a child at the Moria refugee camp on the Greek island of Lesbos on Saturday, April 16. Pope Francis received an emotional welcome on the island during a visit showing solidarity with migrants fleeing war and poverty. Hide Caption 9 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis confesses in St. Peter's Basilica during the Vatican's Penitential Celebration on Friday, March 4. Hide Caption 10 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis tries on a traditional sombrero he received as a gift from a Mexican journalist on Friday, February 12, 2016, aboard a flight from Rome to Havana, Cuba. The voyage kicked off his weeklong trip to Mexico. With his penchant for crowd-pleasing and spontaneous acts of compassion, Pope Francis has earned high praise from fellow Catholics and others since he succeeded Pope Benedict XVI in March 2013. Hide Caption 11 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis arrives for his visit with prisoners in Santa Cruz, Bolivia, on Friday, July 10, 2015. The Pope emphasized the plight of the poor during his eight-day tour of South America, which also included stops in Ecuador and Paraguay. Hide Caption 12 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Bolivian President Evo Morales presents the Pope with a gift of a crucifix carved into a wooden hammer and sickle -- the Communist symbol uniting laborers and peasants -- in La Paz, Bolivia, on Wednesday, July 8, 2015. Hide Caption 13 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis greets a crowd of Italian Catholic boy scouts and girl guides at St. Peter's Square on Saturday, June 13, 2015. Hide Caption 14 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Russian President Vladimir Putin, left, meets Pope Francis at the Vatican on Wednesday, June 10, 2015. The Pope gave Putin a medallion depicting the angel of peace, Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi said. The Vatican called it "an invitation to build a world of solidarity and peace founded on justice." Lombardi said the pontiff and President talked for 50 minutes about the crisis in Ukraine and violence in Iraq and Syria. Hide Caption 15 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis meets with Cuban President Raul Castro at the Vatican on Sunday, May 10, 2015. Castro thanked the Pope for his role in brokering the rapprochement between Havana and Washington. Hide Caption 16 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis The Pope prays face down on the floor of St. Peter's Basilica during Good Friday celebrations at the Vatican on Friday, April 3, 2015. Hide Caption 17 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis touches a child's face as he arrives for a meeting at the Vatican on Friday, March 6, 2015. Hide Caption 18 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Hindu priest Kurukkal SivaSri T. Mahadeva presents a shawl to Pope Francis in Colombo, Sri Lanka, on Tuesday, January 13, 2015. Hide Caption 19 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis The Pope attends Christmas Eve Mass at St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican City in December 2014. Hide Caption 20 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis and Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I address the faithful in Istanbul on Sunday, November 30, 2014. Hide Caption 21 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis speaks during the feast-day Mass while on a one-day trip to Italy's Calabria region in June 2014. The Pope spoke out against the Mafia's "adoration of evil and contempt for the common good," and declared that "Mafiosi are excommunicated, not in communion with God." Hide Caption 22 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis prays next to a rabbi at the Western Wall in Jerusalem's Old City in May 2014. The Pope went on a three-day trip to the Holy Land , and he was accompanied by Jewish and Muslim leaders from his home country of Argentina. Hide Caption 23 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis The Pope meets the faithful as he visits the Roman Parish of San Gregorio Magno in April 2014. Hide Caption 24 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, have an audience with the Pope during their one-day visit to Rome in April 2014. Hide Caption 25 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Francis speaks with US President Barack Obama at the Vatican in March 2014. Hide Caption 26 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis The Pope blesses the altar at Rome's Basilica of Santa Sabina as he celebrates Mass on Ash Wednesday in March 2014. Hide Caption 27 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Daniele De Sanctis, a 19-month-old dressed as the pope, is handed to Francis as the pontiff is driven through the crowd in St. Peter's Square in February 2014. Hide Caption 28 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Wind blows the papal skullcap off Pope Francis' head in February 2014. Hide Caption 29 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis A lamb is placed around Francis' neck in January 2014 as he visits a living nativity scene staged at a church on the outskirts of Rome. Hide Caption 30 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis meets with Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI at the Vatican in December 2013. Benedict surprised the world by resigning "because of advanced age." It was the first time a pope has stepped down in nearly 600 years. Hide Caption 31 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis marked his 77th birthday in December 2013 by hosting homeless men at a Mass and a meal at the Vatican. One of the men brought his dog. Hide Caption 32 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis embraced Vinicio Riva, a disfigured man who suffers from a non-infectious genetic disease, during a public audience at the Vatican in November 2013. Riva then buried his head in the Pope's chest. Hide Caption 33 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Pope Francis jokes in November 2013 with members of the Rainbow Association Marco Iagulli Onlus, which uses clown therapy in hospitals, nursing homes and orphanages. Hide Caption 34 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis A young boy hugs Francis as he delivers a speech in St. Peter's Square in October 2013. The boy, part of a group of children sitting around the stage, played around the Pope as the Pope continued his speech and occasionally patted the boy's head. Hide Caption 35 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Francis has eschewed fancy cars. Here, Father Don Renzo Zocca, second from right, offers his white Renault 4L to the Pope during a meeting at the Vatican in September 2013. Hide Caption 36 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Francis has his picture taken inside St. Peter's Basilica with youths who came to Rome for a pilgrimage in August 2013. Hide Caption 37 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis During an impromptu news conference in July 2013, while on a plane from Brazil to Rome, the Pope said about gay priests, "Who am I to judge?" Many saw the move as the opening of a more tolerant era in the Catholic Church. Hide Caption 38 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Crowds swarm the Pope as he makes his way through World Youth Day in Rio de Janeiro in July 2013. According to the Vatican, 1 million people turned out to see the Pope. Hide Caption 39 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Francis frees a dove in May 2013 during his weekly general audience in St. Peter's Square. Hide Caption 40 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Francis embraces a young boy with cerebral palsy in March 2013 -- a gesture that many took as a heartwarming token of the Pope's self-stated desire to "be close to the people." Hide Caption 41 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis The Pope washes the feet of juvenile offenders, including Muslim women, as part of Holy Thursday rituals in March 2013. The act commemorates Jesus' washing of the Apostles' feet during the Last Supper. Hide Caption 42 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Francis stands at the reception desk of the Domus Internationalis Paulus VI residence on March 14, 2013, where he paid the bill for his stay during the conclave that would elect him leader of the world's 1.2 billion Catholics. Hide Caption 43 of 44 Photos: Pope Francis Francis, formerly known as Argentine Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio, was elected the Roman Catholic Church's 266th Pope in March 2013. The first pontiff from Latin America was also the first to take the name Francis. Hide Caption 44 of 44And finally...Bring it inSunday is Valentine's Day. Use your arms as wrapping paper. Let these dogs show you how.