(CNN) The Northeast is bracing for "life-threatening" temperatures as bitter cold arctic air blows through much of the region this weekend.More than a dozen states are under a wind chill advisory or warning, according to the National Weather Service.Wind chills of 25 to 45 degrees below zero are expected for parts of New England, CNN meteorologist Michael Guy said.New York Mayor Bill de Blasio, in a news conference at the New York City Office of Emergency Management on Saturday morning, urged New Yorkers to take precautionary measures."The city is facing some of the coldest temperatures and wind chills we've seen in the last 20 years," de Blasio said.Snow was a factor in a fatal pileup involving at least 60 vehicles on Interstate 78 near Fredericksburg, Pennsylvania. Authorities didn't specify how many people were killed but said more than 70 were injured."It was definitely a whiteout, I couldn't see any further than probably two city blocks," Raoul Jardine of Allentown said. "I saw brake lights and pulled off to the side. Somebody hit me when I was parked in the shoulder."Forecasters say a number of record low temperatures are expected Saturday night into Sunday morning for much of New England.Near-zero temperatures are expected in New York's Central Park, while it is forecast to dip below zero in Boston.Extreme temperatures even put the 2016 Ice Festival on ice. The Central Park event was canceled and will not be rescheduled "due to extreme temperatures and high winds," the Central Park Conservancy posted on Twitter."Extremely cold weather can be life-threatening -- especially for seniors, infants and people with medical conditions. We are urging residents to stay inside as much as possible, take care of yourselves and your neighbors, and wear multiple layers of warm clothing when outside," said de Blasio.Mayor de Blasio also issued a citywide advisory to all property owners, construction sites and crane operators to take precautions; all crane operations were stopped Saturday because of the high winds.Weather maps show a cold air mass across the Great Lakes triggering heavy lake-effect snow that is pushing inland, especially near Buffalo, New York.Lake-effect snow comes about as moisture from warmer lake waters mixes with cold air from the north, causing more than 2 to 3 inches of snow an hour."Depending on where you are, if you're just south or north of this lake effect, it can look like a wall of snow is coming down," said CNN meteorologist Chad Myers.Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Long Island Railroad workers clear snow off train tracks in Port Washington, New York, on Monday, January 25. A massive winter storm clobbered the East Coast this weekend, shutting down travel in many of the nation's largest cities. Hide Caption 1 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast People shovel snow from a covered street in Wilmington, Delaware, on January 25. Hide Caption 2 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Pirjo Garby, left, and Tom Henry, both of Washington, sit near the Tidal Basin and watch the sunset behind the Jefferson Memorial on Sunday, January 24. Hide Caption 3 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Snow is cleared along a street in the Upper West Side neighborhood of New York on January 24. Hide Caption 4 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast People dig out their cars in Alexandria, Virginia, on January 24. Hide Caption 5 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A taxi driver in Washington tries to get his car out of the snow on January 24. Hide Caption 6 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Workers clear snow from Long Island Railroad tracks on January 24. Hide Caption 7 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Snow is piled in front of the U.S. Capitol on January 24. Hide Caption 8 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Workers remove snow on the tarmac at Ronald Reagan National Airport on January 24. Hide Caption 9 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast People cross a snow- and slush-covered street in New York on January 24. Hide Caption 10 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A man walks with a shovel past a line of snowed-in cars in Washington on January 24. Hide Caption 11 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast North Wildwood, New Jersey, experienced flooding from the storm. Hide Caption 12 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Crews clear a bridge in Lynchburg, Virginia, on January 24. Hide Caption 13 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Beatrice Evangeline, 3, walks through a narrow shoveled-out path in Philadelphia on January 24. Hide Caption 14 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Joe Damico, deputy director of the Virginia Department of General Services, shovels a walkway to the State Capitol in Richmond, Virginia, on January 24. Hide Caption 15 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Police cars remain covered in snow in New York on January 24. Hide Caption 16 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Quan Hill, left, and Lamont Hobson shovel their driveway in Lynchburg on January 24. Hide Caption 17 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Workers clean a snow-covered street in New York's Times Square on January 24. Hide Caption 18 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Crews work to remove the snow from a highway in Washington on January 24. Hide Caption 19 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A family tries to push out a snow-bound car in Philadelphia on January 24. Hide Caption 20 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A boat is partly submerged in high water in Middle Township, New Jersey, on January 24. Hide Caption 21 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A fire hydrant peeks out of deep snow in Centreville, Virginia, early on January 24. Hide Caption 22 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A pedestrian in Washington walks south on 13th Street on Saturday, January 23. Hide Caption 23 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A women walks toward the steamship ferry terminal in Woods Hole, Massachusetts, on January 23. Hide Caption 24 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Chris Holder, left, and Chris Hauger try to push a loaded six-wheel salt truck in Baltimore on January 23. Hide Caption 25 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A line of cars and trucks were stuck along the Pennsylvania Turnpike on January 23. Hide Caption 26 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Michael McDonald attempts to pull his friend's car out of snow in Irvington, New York, on January 23. As his friend steered and gently accelerated, McDonald was able to get the car out of the snow and up the hill. Hide Caption 27 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast People make their way down a street in Jersey City, New Jersey, on January 23. Hide Caption 28 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Headstones jut from the snow at Arlington National Cemetery. Hide Caption 29 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast New York's Times Square was blanketed in snow on January 23. Hide Caption 30 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast People help push a car out of the snow as another motorist tows it in Richmond on January 23. Hide Caption 31 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Secret Service officers push a police car stuck in front of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building in Washington on January 23. Hide Caption 32 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A man walks by Federal Hall in New York on January 23. Hide Caption 33 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A New York City transit worker shovels snow from a subway platform on January 23. Hide Caption 34 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Soldiers and a Washington firefighter in a Humvee assist a stranded motorist in Washington on January 23. Hide Caption 35 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A New York City police officer uses a snow blower to clean the sidewalks on January 23. Hide Caption 36 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast People walk across Philadelphia's Market Street as snow falls during the evening commute on Friday, January 22. Hide Caption 37 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Crews clear the East Plaza at the U.S. Capitol as they try to keep up with the heavy snow on January 22. Hide Caption 38 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A man walks in the snow in Washington on January 22. Hide Caption 39 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast An accident victim near Richmond removes belongings from a car along Interstate 95 on January 22. Hide Caption 40 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast North Carolina state troopers respond to an accident involving a tractor-trailer in Whitsett, North Carolina, on January 22. Hide Caption 41 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Vehicles move along Interstate 85 as a sign warns about adverse conditions in Greensboro, North Carolina, on January 22. Hide Caption 42 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A man carts home groceries as snow falls in Towson, Maryland, on January 22. Hide Caption 43 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Snow is shoveled outside the entrance of the Country Music Hall of Fame in Nashville, Tennessee, on January 22. Hide Caption 44 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A 9-year-old boy shovels the sidewalk at his house in Bowling Green, Kentucky, on January 22. Hide Caption 45 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Snow slows down traffic on Interstate 40 in Nashville on Friday, January 22. Hide Caption 46 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Duke Energy employees work to restore power in Matthews, North Carolina, on January 22. Hide Caption 47 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A person walks through the blowing snow in Bowling Green on January 22. Hide Caption 48 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A man cleans his windshield wipers at a stop light in Bowling Green on January 22. Hide Caption 49 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Snow plows make their way north along Interstate 95 as snow begins to fall in Ashland, Virginia, on January 22. Hide Caption 50 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A woman in Lynchburg shovels the sidewalks in front of her house on January 22. Hide Caption 51 of 51Forecasters predict as many as 18 cities in the East could see record lows Sunday.This bone-chilling cold weather comes a little more than two weeks after a massive winter storm pummeled New York and the Mid-Atlantic states with several feet of snow.Elsewhere, another storm is expected to develop Monday in the Southeast and then move to the Northeast by Tuesday. The heaviest snow will likely fall from Tennessee to the interior Northeast, meteorologists say, especially near the eastern Great Lakes and higher elevations of the Appalachians.