CNN's Moni Basu reported this story from Iowa following the Paris attacks. The issue of Muslim immigration to this country is a hot topic as Iowans head to Monday's caucuses.Cedar Rapids, Iowa (CNN) The small white building is inconspicuous except for its shuttered windows adorned with painted mint-green domes. A silver crescent catches the sun above the door as men with beards and women with their bodies covered from head to toe enter.It's a mosque, nestled in the most unlikeliest of places, in the heartland of America, not far from emblematic cornfields that make this city the largest producer of ethanol in the world.Built in 1932 with hard-earned money scraped together during the Great Depression, Mother Mosque has given sanctuary to Syrian immigrants who came from places like Damascus and the Bekaa Valley. They arrived not yesterday, but a century ago.In this part of eastern Iowa, Islam's faithful survived decades of segregation in America, post-9/11 backlash and even the great flood of 2008 when the Cedar River crested at more than 31 feet and drowned this city. Imam Taha Tawil recalls how the community came together to rebuild the mosque, the oldest in America, when floodwaters destroyed the ground floor.But now, after a string of horrific attacks by the Syria - and Iraq -based Islamic State , the goodwill that took decades to build is at risk of crumbling.Photos: Political violence is driving terrorism Photos: Political violence is driving terrorism A Nigerian policeman inspects the site of a suicide attack by Boko Haram at a busy cattle market in the northeastern Nigerian city of Maiduguri in June, 2015. Boko Haram overtook ISIS as the world's deadliest terror group last year, according to the Global Terrorism Index, while Nigeria had the biggest year-on-year increase in terrorism, with deaths up more than 300%. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Political violence is driving terrorism In this image taken from social media, an ISIS fighter holds the group's flag as he stands on a tank, purportedly captured when they took over the town of Qaryatain, Syria. ISIS, along with Boko Haram, is one of two groups accounting for 51% of claimed terrorism deaths in 2014. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Political violence is driving terrorism A member of the Iraqi security forces fires ammunition in Baghdad in 2014 during a funeral procession of an Iraqi politician. The deadliest city in the world for terrorism is Baghdad. There were 2,454 deaths in Baghdad in 2014, with a death rate from terrorism of 43 per 100,000 people. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Political violence is driving terrorism Iraqi counter-terrorism forces patrol a street in Tikrit in April 2015, a day after the country's prime minister declared victory in the battle to retake the city from ISIS. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Political violence is driving terrorism An Iraqi Kurdish Peshmerga fighter prepares an ammunition belt as he guards a position at the frontline of fighting against ISIS militants near the northern Iraqi town of Sinjar. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Political violence is driving terrorism A Syrian family waits after arriving on the Greek island of Lesbos along with other migrants and refugees, on November 17, 2015. Ten of the 11 countries most affected by terrorism also have the highest rates of refugees. Hide Caption 6 of 6Here, in the heartland, some are questioning whether Syrians fleeing the war in their homeland should be accepted in the city that freely took in their ancestors. They say the governor of their state, Terry Branstad, is right to join the chorus of other state leaders who have said no to the White House in resettling Syrian refugees."I am not a Muslim hater but I am so opposed to this," says David Ahart, 55, an electrician in Cedar Rapids. "There is no way to know who these people are."Emma Aquino-Nemecek, 58, is herself an immigrant, from the Philippines. "When I came to America, they knew everything about me," she says. "But there is no way of documenting these people or checking their stories. I wasn't so concerned until Paris. This could happen to us here."And Joel Mason, 25, says he enlisted with the Iowa Army National Guard and went to Afghanistan so he wouldn't have to fight a war on American soil."It's not worth taking a chance," he says. "It only took 19 of them on 9/11 ."But comments like that don't sit well with the city's established Arab community, Muslims and Christians alike."Iowa should be the No. 1 state to open its doors, knowing the history of immigration here," says Hassan Selim, 28, the imam at the Islamic Center of Cedar Rapids, one of three mosques in the city.Selim, a native of Egypt, was proud to become naturalized as a U.S. citizen in November. To his new compatriots, he says: "There is no basis for the fear. You are not closing the door to terrorists with this policy, but to children."Shutting the door to Syrians in need could also play into the hands of ISIS. The people who turn to that kind of ideology are desperate, he says. "If you don't give them an opportunity, they will get even more desperate," Selim says.The division of opinions runs as deep as the Cedar River-- and they matter.In this part of Iowa, a state central to all things political, the Syrian refugee crisis could be a factor in the upcoming presidential primary caucus.Syrians a part of society's fabricFrom his office, Mayor Ron Corbett likens his city to another that has government buildings similarly situated on an island in the middle of a river. "There's only two places that are like this," he proclaims. "Cedar Rapids and Paris."News of the terrorist attacks in Paris saddened Corbett deeply; his former wife is from France and his five children are French nationals. As the mayor of Cedar Rapids, he urges caution when it comes to Syrian refugees settling here. He can't get the image of the bodies in the blood-smeared Bataclan concert hall out of his mind.Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A forensic scientist works near a Paris cafe on Saturday, November 14, following a series of coordinated attacks in Paris the night before that killed scores of people. ISIS has claimed responsibility. Hide Caption 1 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Police are out in force November 14 near La Belle Equipe, one of the sites of the terror attacks. Hide Caption 2 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Forensic police search for evidence inside the Comptoir Voltaire cafe after the attacks. Hide Caption 3 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Shoes and a bloody shirt lie outside the Bataclan concert hall on November 14. Most of the fatalities occurred at the Bataclan in central Paris. Hide Caption 4 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Security forces evacuate people on Rue Oberkampf near the Bataclan concert hall early on November 14. Hide Caption 5 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Medics evacuate an injured woman on Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire near the Bataclan early on November 14. Hide Caption 6 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Police, firefighters and rescue workers secure the area near the Bataclan concert hall on November 14. Hide Caption 7 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A man with blood on his shirt talks on the phone on November 14. He is next to the Bataclan theater, where gunmen shot concertgoers and held hostages until police raided the building. Hide Caption 8 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Police officers patrol the area around Notre Dame cathedral in Paris on November 14. Hide Caption 9 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Police officers patrol Paris' Saint-German neighborhood on November 14. Hide Caption 10 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Victims of the shooting at the Bataclan concert venue in central Paris are evacuated to receive medical treatment on November 14. Hide Caption 11 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A woman is evacuated from the Bataclan theater early on November 14. Hide Caption 12 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Forensics are working in the street of Paris after the terrorist attack on Friday, November 13. The words "horror," "massacre" and "war" peppered the front pages of the country's newspapers, conveying the shell-shocked mood. Hide Caption 13 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Rescuers evacuate an injured person near the Stade de France, one of several sites of attacks November 13 in Paris. Thousands of fans were watching a soccer match between France and Germany when the attacks occurred. Hide Caption 14 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A survivor of the terrorist attack in the Bataclan is assisted following terror attacks, November 13. The violence at the Bataclan, which involved a hostage-taking, resulted in the highest number of casualties of all the attacks. Hide Caption 15 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Spectators invade the pitch of the Stade de France stadium after the international friendly soccer match between France and Germany in Saint-Denis. Hide Caption 16 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Spectators embrace each other as they stand on the playing field of the Stade de France stadium at the end of a soccer match between France and Germany in Saint-Denis, outside Paris, on November 13. Hide Caption 17 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A body, covered by a sheet, is seen on the sidewalk outside the Bataclan theater. Hide Caption 18 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Rescuers evacuate an injured person on Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire, close to the Bataclan concert hall in central Paris. Hide Caption 19 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Wounded people are evacuated outside the scene of a hostage situation at the Bataclan theater in Paris on November 13. Hide Caption 20 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A medic tends to a wounded man following the attacks near the Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire. Hide Caption 21 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A woman walks past police and firefighters in the Oberkampf area of Paris. Hide Caption 22 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A riot police officer stands by an ambulance near the Bataclan concert hall in central Paris. Hide Caption 23 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Wounded people are evacuated outside the Bataclan concert hall. Hide Caption 24 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Police secure the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, north of Paris, following explosions during the soccer match between France and Germany. Hide Caption 25 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A wounded man is evacuated from the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, outside Paris. Hide Caption 26 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Spectators gather on the field of the Stade de France after the attacks. Explosions were heard during the soccer match between France and Germany. Hide Caption 27 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks French security forces rush in as people are evacuated in the area of Rue Bichat in the 10th District of Paris. Hide Caption 28 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks People leave the Stade de France after explosions were heard near the stadium during a soccer match between France and Germany on Friday. Paris Deputy Mayor Patrick Klugman told CNN President Francois Hollande was at the match and was evacuated at halftime. Hide Caption 29 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Victims lay on the pavement outside a Paris restaurant. Hide Caption 30 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Rescue workers and medics tend to victims at the scene of one of the shootings, a restaurant in the 10th District. Attackers reportedly used AK-47 automatic weapons in separate attacks across Paris, and there were explosions at the Stade de France. Hide Caption 31 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks French security forces move people in the area of Rue Bichat in the 10th District. A witness told BFMTV that firefighters were on the scene to treat the injured. Hide Caption 32 of 32He also thinks of meeting Andy Berke of Chattanooga, Tennessee, at a mayors conference earlier in the year. A few months later, in June, Berke was dealing with shootings at military centers in his city that killed four Marines."It's not a migrant issue," Corbett says. "It's a security issue."Corbett came to this part of Iowa for college and never left. He wanted to stay and make a difference when the state was reeling from the farm crisis in the 1980s. He served in the state Legislature until he felt a need to help this area after the 2008 flood. People here call it "Iowa's Katrina."He's acutely aware of the longstanding Arab community in his city. Syrian- and Lebanese-Americans are doctors, teachers, entrepreneurs and lawyers, some of them well known.They joined the armed services and went to war -- Abdullah Igram returned from the Pacific in World War II and helped pave the way to have an "M" for Muslim as a choice for Army dog tags. Two of the chaplains on the city's interfaith council are Arabs. A cancer hospital and YMCA are named after businesswoman Helen Nassif. The city is home to a global halal meat supplier, and hummus has been a staple here since long before the national health food trend took hold. And recently, an Arab man was elected mayor of neighboring Marion."They are part of the fabric of society here. They have given back in so many ways. " Corbett says. "Iowa has been an open state. But now the states are facing a challenge. As mayor, I'm the end of the line."'We are on the defensive'The last time Hassan Igram met the Iowa governor, he thanked him for being so supportive of the Islamic community. Branstad even signed a proclamation on Muslim Recognition Day last April as part of an effort to combat Islamophobia."Now, I'm very disappointed," says Igram, 59, who runs a commercial printing firm in Cedar Rapids. Among his clients is the department store giant Von Maur."That's pretty big," Igram says, proud of the success he made out of a small family business. His grandfather, after whom he is named, came to America from the Bekaa Valley in 1915, fleeing the turmoil and poverty in the last days of the Ottoman Empire.Igram, like so many of Cedar Rapids' Syrian and Lebanese residents, was born and raised here, memorized the Quran as a boy at Mother Mosque and returned to the Bekaa Valley to get married to a Lebanese woman. One of his sons is studying to become an Islamic scholar at the University of Medina in Saudi Arabia."Yes, I would call myself an observant Muslim," Igram says over a Mediterranean salad with salmon. As such, he is saddened by the hateful anti-Muslim speech he hears.In Cedar Rapids, some of it was triggered by a recent scandal involving Midamar Corp., a Halal (a method of slaughtering as prescribed by Islam) meat company founded in 1974 by Bill Aossey, the influential patriarch of sorts of the Syrian-Lebanese community here. Aossey is sitting in jail after being convicted of forgery, money laundering and conspiracy to defraud the United States.The trial for Aossey and his sons was further muddled by an investigation into a separate incident that involved four people of Lebanese descent. The four were charged with attempting to smuggle guns to Lebanon under the guise of a clothing drive. No one at Midamar was charged but the shipping container was packed at the company's loading dock."That didn't help our cause," Igram says.Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks President Barack Obama, French President Francois Hollande, second from right, and Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo arrive at the Bataclan, site of one of the Paris terrorists attacks, to pay their respects to the victims after Obama arrived in town for the COP21 climate change conference early on Monday, November 30, in Paris. Hide Caption 1 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks The Eiffel Tower in Paris is illuminated in the French national colors on Monday, November 16. Displays of support for the French people were evident at landmarks around the globe after the deadly terrorist attacks in Paris on Friday, November 13. Hide Caption 2 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks People hold hands as they observe a minute of silence in Lyon, France, on November 16, three days after the Paris attacks. A minute of silence was observed throughout the country in memory of the victims of the country's deadliest violence since World War II. Hide Caption 3 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks French President Francois Hollande, center, flanked by French Prime Minister Manuel Valls, right, and French Education Minister Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, center left, stands among students during a minute of silence in the courtyard of the Sorbonne University in Paris on November 16. Hide Caption 4 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks A large crowd gathers to lay flowers and candles in front of the Carillon restaurant in Paris on Sunday, November 15. Hide Caption 5 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks A man sits next to candles lit as homage to the victims of the deadly attacks in Paris at a square in Rio de Janeiro on November 15. Hide Caption 6 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks People light candles in tribute to the Paris victims on November 15 in Budapest, Hungary. Hide Caption 7 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks People gather outside Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris on November 15 for a national service for the victims of the city's terror attacks. Hide Caption 8 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks People write messages on the ground at Place de la Republique in Paris on November 15. Hide Caption 9 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks People pray during a candlelight vigil for victims of the Paris attacks at a church in Islamabad, Pakistan, on November 15. Hide Caption 10 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks French golfer Gregory Bourdy passes a peace symbol for the Paris victims during the BMW Shanghai Masters tournament November 15 in Shanghai, China. Hide Caption 11 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks A man offers a prayer in memory of victims of the Paris attacks at the French Embassy in Tokyo on November 15. Hide Caption 12 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks A woman holds a candle atop a miniature replica of the Eiffel Tower during a candlelight vigil Saturday, November 14, in Vancouver, British Columbia. Hide Caption 13 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks Front pages of Japanese newspapers in Tokyo show coverage and photos of the Paris attacks on November 14. Hide Caption 14 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks An electronic billboard on a canal in Milan, Italy reads, in French, "I'm Paris," on November 14. Hide Caption 15 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks The Eiffel Tower stands dark as a mourning gesture on November 14, in Paris. More than 125 people were killed in a series of coordinated attacks in Paris on Friday. People around the world reacted in horror to the deadly terrorist assaults. Hide Caption 16 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks Lithuanians hold a candlelight vigil in front of the French Embassy in Vilnius, Lithuania, on November 14. Hide Caption 17 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks Thousands gather in London's Trafalgar Square for a candlelit vigil on November 14 to honor the victims of the Paris attacks. Hide Caption 18 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks A woman lights candles at a memorial near the Bataclan theater in Paris on November 14. Hide Caption 19 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks A man places a candle in front of Le Carillon cafe in Paris on November 14. Hide Caption 20 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks A woman holds a French flag during a gathering in Stockholm, Sweden, on November 14. Hide Caption 21 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks Nancy Acevedo prays for France during the opening prayer for the Sunshine Summit being held at Rosen Shingle Creek in Orlando, Florida on November 14. Hide Caption 22 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks French soldiers of the United Nations' interim forces in Lebanon observe the national flag at half-staff at the contingent headquarters in the village of Deir Kifa on November 14. Hide Caption 23 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks A couple surveys the signature sails of the Sydney Opera House lit in the colors of the French flag in Sydney on November 14. Hide Caption 24 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks A woman places flowers in front of the French Consulate in St. Petersburg, Russia, on November 14. Hide Caption 25 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks Candles are lit in Hong Kong on November 14 to remember the scores who died in France. Hide Caption 26 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks A woman lights a candle outside the French Consulate in Barcelona, Spain, on November 14. Hide Caption 27 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks Britain's Prince Charles expresses solidarity with France at a birthday barbecue in his honor near Perth, Australia, on November 14. Hide Caption 28 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks The French national flag flutters at half-staff on November 14 at its embassy in Beijing. Hide Caption 29 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte after a speech on November 14 in The Hague following the attacks. Hide Caption 30 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe becomes emotional after his speech on the French attacks during the opening ceremony of a Japanese garden in Istanbul, Turkey, on November 14. Hide Caption 31 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks A woman mourns outside Le Carillon bar in the 10th district of Paris on November 14. The attackers ruthlessly sought out soft targets where people were getting their weekends underway. Hide Caption 32 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks People lay flowers outside the French Embassy in Moscow on November 14. Hide Caption 33 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks Mourners gather outside Le Carillon bar in the 10th district of Paris on November 14. "We were listening to music when we heard what we thought were the sounds of firecrackers," a doctor from a nearby hospital who was drinking in the bar with colleagues told Le Monde. "A few moments later, it was a scene straight out of a war. Blood everywhere." Hide Caption 34 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks People attend a vigil outside the French Consulate in Montreal. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau offered "all of Canada's support" to France on Friday, November 13, in the wake of the attacks. Hide Caption 35 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks Police show a heightened presence in Times Square in New York on November 13, following the terrorist attacks in Paris. Hide Caption 36 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks People light candles at a vigil outside the French Consulate in Montreal on November 13. Hide Caption 37 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks University of Nevada, Las Vegas, fans observe a moment of silence for the victims of the terrorist attacks in Paris before a basketball game November 13. Hide Caption 38 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks The house lights are shut off and scoreboard dark as Boston Celtics players pause for a moment of silence for the Paris victims before an NBA basketball game against the Atlanta Hawks in Boston on November 13. Hide Caption 39 of 40 Photos: World reacts to Paris attacks People light candles at a vigil outside the French Consulate in Montreal on November 13. Hide Caption 40 of 40Then there was Paris.Igram says he understands that people are sincerely fearful. He sees how Muslim youth in America can fall in line with dangerous ideology, be influenced by radical imams. But he doesn't forgive politicians for being reactionary.He watched the sad news from Paris a week ago and wondered: "Why? Why would these people go into a concert hall, a soccer stadium and blow themselves up. The focus has to be on their ideology, not religion."But all this is fairly new to Igram, who grew up in Cedar Rapids in the height of the civil rights era. He always felt lucky that he escaped the sting of discrimination.The Arabs who settled here did their best, he says, to assimilate and become a part of white America. Photos at Mother Mosque show Syrian and Lebanese women with short dresses and their heads uncovered."I never understood how the black community felt until now," Igram says. "We are, to some degree, on the defensive."Even as he speaks, his smartphone lights up with a message from a white friend who spent the evening discussing with her son what Islam is and what ISIS isn't."He is a bit confused about it but it was great to hear him ask and try to understand," the friend wrote. "It would be a wonderful thing if you could drop him a line to express what your beliefs are and why the obtuse fear is irrational. He feels it's too deep for him and wants to understand without insulting you ... this is a single brick in the foundation and it makes me happy."Father Fred Shaheen's family migrated to America from #Syria two generations ago. He urges politicians not to discriminate when it comes to giving refuge to those fleeing #violence. "As #Christians, we must learn to love." #syrianrefugees A photo posted by Moni Basu (@mbasucnn) on Nov 19, 2015 at 12:28pm PST'Go back to where you came from'The sun had not come up yet the morning after the Paris attacks when Miriam Amer got her first phone call. "Get out of our country. Go back to where you came from."Amer, 47, did not know what to make of that. Go back where? To Massachusetts, where she was born and raised? Her ancestors hailed from the fertile Bekaa Valley when it was still a part of Syria. (Today it is in Lebanon and serves as a haven for half a million Syrian refugees.) In America, Amer's great-grandfather rode with Teddy Roosevelt and the Rough Riders in the Spanish American War.JUST WATCHED Should Christian refugees receive priority? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Should Christian refugees receive priority? 06:42"You wouldn't be able to tell I'm a Muslim if I didn't wear hijab ," she says.The trajectory of her life changed radically after a severe accident left her disabled. She recovered enough to function in life, to walk around with a cane, but not enough to fulfill her dreams of practicing environmental law. She married an Egyptian academic and moved to Iowa for her husband's job.Here, she found an accepting community. "Iowa has been welcoming (to immigrants) from decades ago," she says.But things are different now. "Of course, this has affected goodwill," she says.That's why she relishes her job as the head of the Council on American-Islamic Relations in Iowa.She lists a series of incidents of anti-Muslim vandalism and violence , including one last June in which a Sudanese Muslim man's house was broken into. "We will kill you," said the words spray-painted on an inside wall.After that a few residents came together to show support for the Muslim community with a "love-in" organized by artist Lori Jayne Carlson, 51."How could this happen in our community?" Carlson asks. "We were heartbroken."Amer feels things are harder for the Muslim community in some ways because they are always under pressure to change the way they look, the way they dress. It's even harder now for the Syrian Muslims. It's so easy, she says, to be dismissive of their religion, their culture, because of terrorism.A good place for refugeesIt's a culture sorely missed by Maria Canas.Her mother and brothers are still in Damascus and she has watched from afar as protracted war has taken its toll. She can only communicate with them on their mobile phones, and not as often as she would like.Sometimes, when she scolds her children she tells them not to complain so much. "Syrian kids have nothing."Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Displaced Syrian residents wait to receive food aid distributed by the UN Relief and Works Agency at the besieged al-Yarmouk camp, south of Damascus, Syria, on January 31, 2014. According to the UN Envoy for Syria, an estimated 400,000 Syrians have been killed since an uprising in March 2011 spiraled into civil war. See how the conflict has unfolded. Hide Caption 1 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Hide Caption 2 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures An injured man lying in the back of a vehicle is rushed to a hospital in Daraa, Syria, on March 23, 2011. Violence flared in Daraa after a group of teens and children were arrested for writing political graffiti. Dozens of people were killed when security forces cracked down on demonstrations. Hide Caption 3 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Anti-government protesters demonstrate in Daraa on March 23, 2011. In response to continuing protests, the Syrian government announced several plans to appease citizens. Hide Caption 4 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Syrian children walk over bricks stored for road repairs during a spontaneous protest June 15, 2011, at a refugee camp near the Syrian border in Yayladagi, Turkey. Hide Caption 5 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Jamal al-Wadi speaks in Istanbul on September 15, 2011, after an alignment of Syrian opposition leaders announced the creation of a Syrian National Council -- their bid to present a united front against Bashar al-Assad's regime and establish a democratic system. Hide Caption 6 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Delegates from Arab League member states and Turkey discuss a response to the government's crackdown in Syria on November 16, 2011. Hide Caption 7 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Supporters of al-Assad celebrate during a referendum vote in Damascus on February 26, 2012. Opposition activists reported at least 55 deaths across the country as Syrians headed to the polls. Analysts and protesters widely described the constitutional referendum as a farce. "Essentially, what (al-Assad's) done here is put a piece of paper that he controls to a vote that he controls so that he can try and maintain control," a US State Department spokeswoman said. Hide Caption 8 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Syrian refugees walk across a field in Syria before crossing into Turkey on March 14, 2012. Hide Caption 9 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Rebel fighters with the Free Syrian Army capture a police officer in Aleppo, Syria, who they believed to be pro-regime militiaman on July 31, 2012. Dozens of officers were reportedly killed as rebels seized police stations in the city. Hide Caption 10 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A Free Syrian Army fighter runs for cover as a Syrian Army tank shell hits a building across the street during clashes in the Salaheddine neighborhood of central Aleppo on August 17, 2012. Hide Caption 11 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Family members mourn the deaths of their relatives in front of a field hospital in Aleppo on August 21, 2012. Hide Caption 12 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A Syrian man carrying grocery bags dodges sniper fire in Aleppo as he runs through an alley near a checkpoint manned by the Free Syrian Army on September 14, 2012. Hide Caption 13 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Free Syrian Army fighters are reflected in a mirror they use to see a Syrian Army post only 50 meters away in Aleppo on September 16, 2012. Hide Caption 14 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Smoke rises over the streets after a mortar bomb from Syria landed in the Turkish border village of Akcakale on October 3, 2012. Five people were killed. In response, Turkey fired on Syrian targets and its parliament authorized a resolution giving the government permission to deploy soldiers to foreign countries. Hide Caption 15 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A Syrian rebel walks inside a burnt section of the Umayyad Mosque in Aleppo hours before the Syrian army retook control of the complex on October 14, 2012. Hide Caption 16 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures An Israeli tank crew sits on the Golan Heights overlooking the Syrian village of Breqa on November 6, 2012. Israel fired warning shots toward Syria after a mortar shell hit an Israeli military post. It was the first time Israel fired on Syria across the Golan Heights since the 1973 Yom Kippur War. Hide Caption 17 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Smoke rises in the Hanano and Bustan al-Basha districts in Aleppo as fighting continues through the night on December 1, 2012. Hide Caption 18 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures The bodies of three children are laid out for identification by family members at a makeshift hospital in Aleppo on December 2, 2012. The children were allegedly killed in a mortar shell attack that landed close to a bakery in the city. Hide Caption 19 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A father reacts after the deaths of two of his children in Aleppo on January 3, 2013. Hide Caption 20 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Syrians look for survivors amid the rubble of a building targeted by a missile in the al-Mashhad neighborhood of Aleppo on January 7, 2013. Hide Caption 21 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Rebels launch a missile near the Abu Baker brigade in Al-Bab, Syria, on January 16, 2013. Hide Caption 22 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures An aerial view shows the Zaatari refugee camp near the Jordanian city of Mafraq on July 18, 2013. Hide Caption 23 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures The UN Security Council passes a resolution September 27, 2013, requiring Syria to eliminate its arsenal of chemical weapons. Al-Assad said he would abide by the resolution. Hide Caption 24 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Residents run from a fire at a gasoline and oil shop in Aleppo's Bustan Al-Qasr neighborhood on October 20, 2013. Witnesses said the fire was caused by a bullet from a pro-government sniper. Hide Caption 25 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Syrian children wait as doctors perform medical checkups at a refugee center in Sofia, Bulgaria, on October 26, 2013. Hide Caption 26 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures An injured man is helped following an airstrike in Aleppo's Maadi neighborhood on December 17, 2013. Hide Caption 27 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A man holds a baby who was rescued from rubble after an airstrike in Aleppo on February 14, 2014. Hide Caption 28 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A US ship staff member wears personal protective equipment at a naval airbase in Rota, Spain, on April 10, 2014. A former container vessel was fitted out with at least $10 million of gear to let it take on about 560 metric tons of Syria's most dangerous chemical agents and sail them out to sea, officials said. Hide Caption 29 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A Free Syrian Army fighter fires a rocket-propelled grenade during heavy clashes in Aleppo on April 27, 2014. Hide Caption 30 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A giant poster of al-Assad is seen in Damascus on May 31, 2014, ahead of the country's presidential elections. He received 88.7% of the vote in the country's first election after the civil war broke out. Hide Caption 31 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Rebel fighters execute two men on July 25, 2014, in Binnish, Syria. The men were reportedly charged by an Islamic religious court with detonating several car bombs. Hide Caption 32 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Photographs of victims of the Assad regime are displayed as a Syrian army defector known as "Caesar," center, appears in disguise to speak before the House Foreign Affairs Committee in Washington. The July 31, 2014, briefing was called "Assad's Killing Machine Exposed: Implications for U.S. Policy." Caesar, apparently a witness to the regime's brutality, smuggled more than 50,000 photographs depicting the torture and execution of more than 10,000 dissidents. CNN cannot independently confirm the authenticity of the photos, documents and testimony referenced in the report. Hide Caption 33 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Volunteers remove a dead body from under debris after shelling in Aleppo on August 29, 2014. According to the Syrian Civil Defense, barrel bombs are now the greatest killer of civilians in many parts of Syria. The White Helmets are a humanitarian organization that tries to save lives and offer relief. Hide Caption 34 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Medics tend to a man's injuries at a field hospital in Douma after airstrikes on September 20, 2014. Hide Caption 35 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A long-exposure photograph shows a rocket being launched in Aleppo on October 5, 2014. Hide Caption 36 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Rebel fighters dig caves in the mountains for bomb shelters in the northern countryside of Hama on March 9, 2015. Hide Caption 37 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Nusra Front fighters inspect a helicopter belonging to pro-government forces after it crashed in the rebel-held Idlib countryside on March 22, 2015. Hide Caption 38 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A Syrian child fleeing the war gets lifted over fences to enter Turkish territory illegally near a border crossing at Akcakale, Turkey, on June 14, 2015. Hide Caption 39 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A refugee carries mattresses as he re-enters Syria from Turkey on June 22, 2015, after Kurdish People's Protection Units regained control of the area around Tal Abyad, Syria, from ISIS. Hide Caption 40 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A sandstorm blows over damaged buildings in the rebel-held area of Douma, east of Damascus, on September 7, 2015. Hide Caption 41 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Members of a Syrian opposition group attack the headquarters of al-Assad regime forces in the Aleppo villages of Nubul and al-Zahraa on February 12, 2016. Hide Caption 42 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures This still image, taken from a video posted by the Aleppo Media Center, shows a young boy in an ambulance after an airstrike in Aleppo, Syria, on August 17, 2016. It took nearly an hour to dig the boy, identified as Omran Daqneesh, out from the rubble, an activist told CNN. The airstrike destroyed his home, where he lived with his parents and two siblings. Director of the Aleppo Media Center Yousef Saddiq said Omran's 10-year-old brother, Ali, died from his injuries. Hide Caption 43 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Smoke rises after an airstrike in Aleppo on October 4, 2016. Hide Caption 44 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Arabic writing that reads "some day we will return" is seen on a bus window as civilians evacuate Aleppo on December 15, 2016. The evacuations began under a new ceasefire between rebels and pro-government forces. Hide Caption 45 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures This photo, provided by the activist Idlib Media Center, shows dead children after a suspected chemical attack in the rebel-held city of Khan Sheikhoun on April 4, 2017. Dozens of people were killed, according to multiple activist groups. The United States responded a few days later by launching between 50-60 Tomahawk missiles at a Syrian government airbase. US officials said the base was home to warplanes that carried out the chemical attack. Syria has repeatedly denied it had anything to do with the attack. Hide Caption 46 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Members of the UN Security Council raise their hands on April 12, 2017, as they vote in favor of a draft resolution that condemned the reported use of chemical weapons in Syria. Hide Caption 47 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Residents of the war-torn city of Douma break their Ramadan fast on June 18, 2017. Hide Caption 48 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A member of the Syrian pro-regime forces fires a machine gun as a comrade holds his feeding ammunition belt on November 11, 2017. It was during an advance toward rebel-held positions west of Aleppo. Hide Caption 49 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures A child receives medical treatment after a village was attacked in the rebel-held Eastern Ghouta region on February 25, 2018. Several people were treated for exposure to chlorine gas, opposition groups said, as airstrikes and artillery fire from the regime continued. CNN was unable to independently verify claims that chlorine was used as a weapon. Hide Caption 50 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Bodies lie on the ground in the rebel-held city of Douma, Syria, on April 8, 2018. According to activist groups, helicopters dropped barrel bombs filled with toxic gas on Douma, which has been the focus of a renewed government offensive that launched in mid-February. The Syrian government and its key ally, Russia, vehemently denied involvement and accused rebel groups of fabricating the attack to hinder the army's advances and provoke international military intervention. Hide Caption 51 of 52 Photos: Syria's civil war, in pictures Damascus skies erupt with anti-aircraft fire as the US and its allies launch an attack on Syria's capital early on April 14, 2018. US President Donald Trump announced airstrikes in retaliation for Syria's alleged use of chemical weapons. Trump says the strikes are part of a sustained military response, in coordination with France and the United Kingdom. Hide Caption 52 of 52She thinks of the last time she was home, for her brother's wedding in summer 2010 -- before the civil war . She doesn't feel that way of life will return in her lifetime. Sometimes, she calls her mother to talk and they cannot. They cry.Maria Canas arrived from #Syria in 1999. She thinks her second hometown of #cedarrapids #iowa would be a good place for #syrianrefugees. A photo posted by Moni Basu (@mbasucnn) on Nov 18, 2015 at 12:44pm PSTCanas, 40, settled in Cedar Rapids after she married a Greek man. The two share a religion: Orthodox Christianity. She liked that there was a community here and a church she could attend. Her faith is important to her but so is her country.She despises comments by politicians like Jeb Bush , who suggested U.S. assistance to Syrian refugees should be limited to Christians. That kind of policy, she says, would create more hatred."Not all Muslims are bad," Canas says. "Not all Christians are good."She thinks Cedar Rapids would be a great place for newcomers from Syria."This is a small town. People are generally friendly and caring. That's what refugees need -- a warm shelter ."'ISIS is destroying my heritage'Inside Mother Mosque, Imam Taha Tawil pulls out a Quran that is 150 years old. It is one of a few artifacts he managed to save in the 2008 flood. Many things that were brought by early immigrants from Syria were lost to water damage.God is great. Inside the oldest #mosque in #america. #islam #muslims #syrianrefugees #syria #cedarrapids #iowa A photo posted by Moni Basu (@mbasucnn) on Nov 17, 2015 at 9:04pm PSTHe speaks lovingly about how both Muslims and non-Muslims, Arabs and non-Arabs came together to rebuild the mosque. In destruction, there was compassion. Can there not be the same now, he wonders. Can the most horrific of events like the Paris attacks not also be unifying?Tawil gives visitors to the mosque a tour, shows them the photographs of the men and women who were pioneers for the Cedar Rapids Syrian community. Outside this mosque, he wishes the words "Syria" and "Islam" did not incite so much anxiety and hatred."We cannot blame Catholics for the Mafia," he says. It's important for Americans to understand the historical context of terrorism hatched in that part of the world.Tahil was on a visit from his native Jerusalem to the United States in 1983 and never returned after he was offered a job as an imam in Cedar Rapids. The America he landed in was a melting pot -- one that he likes to describe now as a salad bowl.Immigrants -- refugees or otherwise -- are much more likely to hold on to their cultures, their identities now. They don't melt into one stew but mix together like tomatoes, cucumbers, lettuce and croutons in a salad bowl."I am not asking anyone to start partying and drink alcohol or to give up their faith," he says. "But look at the Arab community here. Their success in Iowa is a unique one. They assimilated. They built trust. We have seen other communities in America where people do not integrate."He tells his congregation they must mix in. Otherwise, he tells them, "You will be a failure. You need to be a part of America."Tahil takes his shoes off and meanders into the carpeted prayer room on the second floor. On the walls are Islamic art and quotations from the Quran. He begins to describe them and then pauses to say this:"ISIS is destroying my heritage, everything good about Islam. They are not about my religion. They are not about my way of life."He wants to tell America's leaders that the Syrian refugee crisis is not about ISIS, but about humanity. Doesn't every religion, he asks, teach its adherents about love and compassion?Above him on the wall is a painted wooden plaque embellished with Arabic calligraphy.It says "Allahu Akbar." God is Great.