Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Hillary and Bernie talk the talk. Assange may finally walk. And Cosby gets a shock. It's Thursday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .NEW HAMPSHIRE TOWN HALL: "I'm more progressive than her!" "Pshaw, I'm more progressive than him!" And that was the gist of the CNN town hall tangle between Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders last night. The Bern argued Clinton is out of step with the party's base. Exhibit A: her Wall Street ties. Exhibit B: her Iraq War vote. Hilz shot back that she found it funny a socialist should be the " gatekeeper on who's progressive. " Meanwhile, on the GOP side, Rick Santorum and Rand Paul are outta here.Missed the town hall?Here are the 6 takeawaysBILL COSBYCoz and effect: The show must go on. That's what a Pennsylvania judge ruled yesterday, as Bill Cosby's legal team tried to have the sex assault case against him tossed. They argued a decade-old promise by an ex-DA to never prosecute the comedian should be honored. : The show must go on. That's what a Pennsylvania judge ruled yesterday, as Bill Cosby's legal team tried to have the sex assault case against him tossed. They argued a decade-old promise by an ex-DA to never prosecute the comedian should be honored. The judge said no dice . This is the case where an ex-Temple U. employee accused Cosby of assaulting her in his home in 2004. Oh, if she were the only one. There are 50-plus women who've made similar allegations.JUST WATCHED Bill Cosby sexual assault case allowed to move forward Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bill Cosby sexual assault case allowed to move forward 00:45JULIAN ASSANGEYou can check out anytime you like: Looks like Julian Assange's extended stay at Hotel Ecuador may be coming to an end, one way or the other. The WikiLeaks founder, who's been holed up in Ecuador's embassy in London since 2012, says : Looks like Julian Assange's extended stay at Hotel Ecuador may be coming to an end, one way or the other. The WikiLeaks founder, who's been holed up in Ecuador's embassy in London since 2012, says he'll surrender if he loses an appeal he filed with the U.N. But if he wins, he wants cops to back off. Assange really doesn't want to go to Sweden where he's accused of rape. He's worried he'll just be pawned off to the U.S. where he faces death for spilling all those sensitive state secrets.JUST WATCHED Julian Assange says ready to leave embassy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Julian Assange says ready to leave embassy 02:18NICOLE LOVELLQuestions and (few) answers: Thirteen-year-old Nicole Lovell will be put to rest today, but : Thirteen-year-old Nicole Lovell will be put to rest today, but questions remain about her death . The main one: how did she fall into an "inappropriate" relationship with David Eisenhauer, the Virginia Tech student accused of stabbing her to death? It seems social media is definitely involved. Police say Eisenhauer killed Nicole to keep her from exposing their relationship. And how does his classmate, Natalie Keepers, figure in all of this? We may learn more when she goes before a judge today.Natalie Keepers and David Eisenhauer have been arrested in the death of Nicole Lovell.ZIKA VIRUSNo, not tonight honey: Ladies, if you're pregnant and he's been to Zika country, you might want to slow your roll. That's advice from the CDC, which updated its virus guidance after someone in Texas contracted the virus through sexual contact. The CDC says : Ladies, if you're pregnant and he's been to Zika country, you might want to slow your roll. That's advice from the CDC, which updated its virus guidance after someone in Texas contracted the virus through sexual contact. The CDC says pregnant women should protect themselves -- if their partner has been to an area where the virus is circulating -- by abstaining or using condoms. That last part is causing a bit of a theological bugaboo for the Catholic Church , which frowns on nearly every kind of birth control.JUST WATCHED Zika virus: Inside the CDC Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Zika virus: Inside the CDC 03:10BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:For 'his vigorous peace through strength ideology, used as a threat weapon of deterrence against radical Islam, ISIS, nuclear Iran and Communist China'Ain't that a (rhymes with witch)Turns out the facial phenomenon crudely known as "resting bitch face " is really a thing. And researchers have the science to back it up.It's buttah babyBurger King's new extra long cheesburger let's you have it your way -- with lots and lots of butter.Not just sticker shockTurns out Apple products will give you electric shock as well. That's why Apple is recalling millions of power adaptersTaxing troubleCouldn't file that tax return electronically yesterday? You weren't alone. IRS blames a hardware glitch, but says things should be back to normal today. .AND FINALLY ...Let sleeping cats lieThis fat cat wanted nothing to do with this friendly doggie that just wanted to cuddle.