(CNN) Mario Woods, who was shot dead by San Francisco police, had more than 20 gunshot wounds, according to an autopsy report.The report, obtained by CNN affiliate KRON , says at least two shots hit the 26-year-old in the head and six hit him in the back.The autopsy report lists 21 gunshot wounds, five injuries from "less than lethal" firearm rounds and six injuries likely caused by shrapnel. It also says Woods had methamphetamine, THC and antidepressants in his bloodstream."Multiple gunshot wounds" caused Woods' death, the report says.Police: Autopsy corroborates investigationIn a statement responding to the autopsy report Thursday, police acknowledged that the shooting had shaken many residents' trust in the department."It is difficult for anyone to watch videos of the shooting. Similarly, it is equally as difficult to read the Medical Examiner's report," the statement said. "That said, newly released information in the autopsy report appears to corroborate facts gathered by investigators in the aftermath of this tragic incident."Three independent investigations are underway, the department said, and the autopsy report "will be an important component" of all of them.Videos show barrage of gunfireIn the videos of the Woods shooting, a barrage of gunfire reverberates in the Bayview neighborhood of San Francisco as a man, surrounded by a sea of police officers, is shot and killed.Police say five officers involved in the shooting have been placed on administrative leave."In the past few weeks, our city has grappled with a crisis all too common in so many other American cities -- the dissolution of trust between communities of color and law enforcement -- following the death of a young black man shot and killed by police officers," Lee wrote in a letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch. "We want to throw our doors open, inviting transparency and accountability. We seek answers, not just to the facts of Mr. Wood's case, but also answers about how as a police department and a city we can build deeper, stronger trust between law enforcement and the communities they're sworn to protect."Demonstrations over the shooting have continued for months, including a sign held up by a backup dancer after Beyonce's Super Bowl halftime performance Sunday, KRON reportedProtesters are calling for the officers to face criminal charges. Some have called for the police chief's resignation."Somebody keeps saying we're trying to build, renew our trust with them," protester Bishop King said at a demonstration earlier this week, according to KRON. "I ain't never trusted the police in my life."