(CNN) A scientist whose work is said to have inspired the movie Jurassic Park has found the oldest known examples of a useful family of plants. The specimens are locked up as fossils in amber millions of years old.The perfectly preserved Strychnos electri -- now extinct -- is not only the oldest example of an "astrid," but also a brand new species, never before recorded by science, researchers announced this week.StrychnineThough Strychnos electri, as an astrid, shares ancestry with plants that led to potatoes, egg plants and coffee beans, it's probably also deadly poisonous.And that's where it got its name. "Strychnos" is related to strychnine, which was once a key ingredient in rat poison and has shown up in murderous tales from Sherlock Holmes novels to the movie "Psycho."Strychnine is also found in plants in the astrid family, as is the poison curare that is used by South American indigenous people to tip blow darts.Some 15 to 30 million years ago, the Strychnos electri blossoms dropped into gooey tree resin that turned solid into transparent amber. "The specimens are beautiful, perfectly preserved flowers," Poinar said.30-year delay"Strychnos electri" has strychnine in its name, but it's related to many food plants.The two whole intact flowers sat in Poinar's collection for about 30 years.He had not been digging specifically for plants in 1986, when he unearthed 500 amber fossils in the Dominican Republic. But instead for prehistoric bugs, which is what he's much better known for as an entomologist.Poinar became famous after he worked on extracting the DNA of the prehistoric insects locked in the amber. The movie Jurassic Park picked up on the idea, giving it a plot twist: Extract the DNA from dinosaurs the bugs bit and clone them back into existence.Photos: Dinosaurs in the movies Photos: Dinosaurs in the movies A lovable dino is the star of Disney-Pixar's "The Good Dinosaur," which takes place in a world where dinosaurs never went extinct. Click through for more movie dinosaurs. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Dinosaurs in the movies "Godzilla" (1954) Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Dinosaurs in the movies "Jurassic Park" (1993) Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Dinosaurs in the movies "The Lost World" (1997) Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Dinosaurs in the movies "Night at the Museum" (2006) Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Dinosaurs in the movies "Walking with Dinosaurs" (2013) Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Dinosaurs in the movies "Transformers Age of Extinction" (2014) Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Dinosaurs in the movies "Godzilla" (2014) Hide Caption 8 of 8Eyeballing a flowerPoinar, now a "courtesy professor" at Oregon State University, worked on insects for years, but recently his studious gaze shifted to those perfect blossoms. Usually, amber fossils contain just small remnants of plant -- a petal, a stem.But a whole flower in mint condition is rare. Two even rarer."These flowers looked like they had just fallen from a tree," Poinar said. Not being a botanist, he decided to run them by one at Rutgers University -- Lena Struwe."I thought they might be Strychnos, and I sent them to Lena because I knew she was an expert in that genus," he said.Hitting the roadStruwe poured through archives of dried flowers collected over the last 200 years and took trips to the New York Botanical Garden and the Philadelphia Herbarium. Both have extensive collections of Strychnos.Photos: New species discovered in 2015 Photos: New species discovered in 2015 The new species of Ceratioid anglerfish lives in dark ocean depths nicknamed the "midnight zone." Researchers described the new anglerfish species in a study published in the journal Copeia, dedicated to research on fish, amphibians and reptiles. It looks quite different from previously discovered anglerfish, which are usually stout and roundish. Browse the gallery for more new species discovered in 2015. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: New species discovered in 2015 Researchers say this animal, which is found in Africa, is a different species from the golden jackal, Canis aureus. They propose renaming it the African golden wolf, or Canis anthus. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: New species discovered in 2015 Its scientific name is Peckoltia greedoi , and it is known for its large, dark eyes, puckered lips and protruding bristles. But you can call him Greedo, in honor of the bounty hunter from "Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope." Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: New species discovered in 2015 The parasitic coral plant, which has only been found in the forest areas of the Philippines' Mount Mingan, was named for its coral-like appearance. Unlike most plants, this one does not produce its own nutrition through photosynthesis. Instead, it draws from other organisms. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: New species discovered in 2015 It might look like a strange mushroom, but scientists are certain that this is an animal. Further classification is still up for debate. The X-phyla could be related to various existing sea animals such as jellyfish and coral, or it could be in a phylum all its own. This was found on the sea floor off the coast of Australia. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: New species discovered in 2015 The bone-house wasp, discovered in China's Gutianshan National Nature Reserve, has an appropriately creepy name. To protect her young, the female bone-house wasp build nests with several cells. She then proceeds to kill spiders and place them in each cell for her future young to eat. After she lays an egg in a spider tomb, she seals it and continues onto the next one. She fills the final cell with dead ants, whose corpses emit chemicals that camouflage the nest. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: New species discovered in 2015 The Costa Rican Amphibian Research Center announced a newly discovered species of glassfrog , Hyalinobatrachium dianae, from the Caribbean slopes of Costa Rica. The authors distinguished H. dianae from other glassfrogs due to its unique combination of morphological characteristics, its mating call, and genetic differences. The last time a new glassfrog was discovered in Costa Rica was in 1973. Hide Caption 7 of 7She eyeballed specimens of known Strychnos and compare them with the photos of fossils."I looked at each specimen of New World species, photographed and measured it, and compared it to the photo George sent me. I asked myself, 'How do the hairs on the petals look?' 'Where are the hairs situated?' and so on."She found the amber-locked species to be new and unique and added the name "electri" to get "Strychnos electri." It comes from "elektron," the ancient Greek word for "amber."