Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) The judgment day in Iowa will be all the talk this morning. Did you know we have a sweet political newsletter called Nightcap? You should totally sign up after you read the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door :IOWA CAUCUSRaise your hands if you picked Marco Rubio to place a strong 3rd in Iowa. Put 'em down, you liars. The Donald came in 2nd, but only by a point. Ted Cruz got the winner's trophy. And the Republican race just got interestingDemocrat Martin O'Malley and Republican Mike Huckabee are suspending their campaigns . That's political code for quitting (unless a meteor takes out the frontrunners).IOWA CAUCUS -- THE LIGHTER SIDEHumble beginnings: It seems 2nd place tames the tongue of The Donald. Trump was, dare we say, : It seems 2nd place tames the tongue of The Donald. Trump was, dare we say, gracious in his concession speech ? And he only talked for about four minutes. He's a favorite in NH; so don't get used to it.Move over Left Shark: When Peter Clinkscales stood behind Hilz, plastered in stickers and : When Peter Clinkscales stood behind Hilz, plastered in stickers and looking like a cow chewing cud , he made America great again.These boots: His strong 3rd place finish has Marco Rubio clicking his heels. It's sweet revenge after folks in : His strong 3rd place finish has Marco Rubio clicking his heels. It's sweet revenge after folks in Iowa mocked his high-heeled bootiesFreshening up: After placing a distant 4th, Ben Carson headed home because he : After placing a distant 4th, Ben Carson headed home because he needs a "fresh set of clothes ." Too bad there aren't dry cleaners in NH.ZIKA VIRUSWell, that escalated quickly: A couple of years ago, none of us had even heard of the Zika virus. Now it's Public Enemy No. 1. Yesterday, the WHO made Zika a : A couple of years ago, none of us had even heard of the Zika virus. Now it's Public Enemy No. 1. Yesterday, the WHO made Zika a "health emergency of international concern." It's spreading explosively with as many as 4 million infections possible in the next year in the Americas alone. For most of us, it's not a big deal. But for pregnant women, it's a REALLY BIG DEAL. Zika appears to be connected with a spike in babies born with abnormally small heads . Did we mention there's no vaccine?JUST WATCHED WHO declares health emergency over Zika virus Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH WHO declares health emergency over Zika virus 01:52SYRIA CIVIL WARI'm not talking to you: The Syria peace talks are more like a : The Syria peace talks are more like a game of Chinese whispers than real diplomacy. The two sides aren't even meeting face to face. They're passing messages through a U.N. special envoy . The ultimate goal is a cease-fire, but short term it's just to keep them talking. The brutal civil war is nearly five-years-old. Just getting the two sides to agree to negotiate is a major accomplishment. #SmallVictoriesJUST WATCHED Syrian negotiations stutter in Geneva Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Syrian negotiations stutter in Geneva 00:55CALIFORNIA JAIL BREAKLive and let live: The three inmates who broke out of a Southern California jail : The three inmates who broke out of a Southern California jail are back behind bars . But they weren't exactly model citizens while on the lam. You know the saying 'idle hands are the devil's workshop?' Apparently, so are busy ones. The trio stole a van, tried to change their looks, kidnapped a cabbie and then fought over whether to kill him. He's still alive, so they made one good decision at least. Here's the timeline , from the mundane to the menacing.JUST WATCHED Escaped California inmates in police custody Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Escaped California inmates in police custody 01:17BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:"I think I might come back here and buy a farm."Pricey pigskinNFL's new $450 million deal with NBC and CBS for "Thursday Night Football" works out to about $45 million a game. Who said it was free TV?Getting out of AjAmIf you're a journalist staring down unemployment, what do you do? If you're at soon-to-shut-down Al Jazeera America, you start a websiteFrom the Street to the ValleyBig Bird and Elmo want a piece of that tech action: "Sesame Street" is starting a venture capital armCop's best friendA retiring Ohio police officer will get to keep his K-9 partner after all. Thanks social media!Number of the day9The number of Americans in Saudi jails , after 4 were detained last week. The Saudis haven't said exactly what they're charged with. So much for cooperation between allies, huh?WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening today.Power playIs there enough evidence to move forward in the Bill Cosby sex assault criminal case? A hearing will look at that later this morning.AND FINALLY ...Watch him whip, watch him nae naeA Colorado sheriff's deputy busts some serious moves inside an elevator to celebrate his retirement.