Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) An average Joe. You've got to go. And a punch to throw. It's Tuesday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .KALAMAZOO SHOOTINGS: Those words, from the prosecution, are as close as we've gotten to a motive for the senseless, seemingly random slayings in Kalamazoo that left six dead. The suspect, Jason Brian Dalton, was in court yesterday, where he was denied bail. Other things we learned yesterday:-- Dalton may have switched vehicles.-- He bought a "heavy-duty" jacket at a gun store before the attacks.-- He had 11 rifles in his house.JUST WATCHED Uber passenger: Kalamazoo driver was 'surprisingly calm' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Uber passenger: Kalamazoo driver was 'surprisingly calm' 01:50CAMPAIGN 2016Democrats, forgive us if your upcoming S.C. primary fails to hold our interest too long. It's probably going to be a rout and thus can't hold a candle to the WWE-style donnybrook that the GOP is putting on.You're fired: This time it was Ted Cruz, and not The Donald, sending someone packing. That someone was his : This time it was Ted Cruz, and not The Donald, sending someone packing. That someone was his communications director , who distributed a video that falsely depicts Marco Rubio dismissing the Bible. Buh bye.Keepin' it classy: Donald Trump came for everybody last night during a rally in Nevada: Candidates, protesters, it didn't matter. He called Ted Cruz "sick" and wished he could : Donald Trump came for everybody last night during a rally in Nevada: Candidates, protesters, it didn't matter. He called Ted Cruz "sick" and wished he could punch a protester "in the face."Open mouth. Insert foot: John Kasich ticked people off when he said that women "left their kitchens" to support one of his early statehouse races. Seriously?JUST WATCHED Donald Trump: Ted Cruz 'is sick' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Donald Trump: Ted Cruz 'is sick' 01:25NORTH KOREAThe peacemakers:North Korea: Hey America, want to help us end the Korean War?United States: Of course! You gotta get rid of those nukes, though.North Korea: Never mind.And that's pretty much how The North's little peace initiative ended last year. You see, North Korea reached out, through the U.N., to the U.S., proposing formal peace talks to officially end the Korean War. But it all went kaput when it said its nuke program was a no-go.SYRIA CIVIL WARGive peace a chance, Take 2: This time will be different! At least that's what folks involved in This time will be different! At least that's what folks involved in wrangling together a truce in Syria hope. This latest attempt to stop the killing -- announced yesterday -- goes into effect midnight Friday. Earlier attempts to call a truce were just met with more bloodshed. Fingers crossed that this one holds.JUST WATCHED 'Cessation of hostilities' in Syria set for Friday Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Cessation of hostilities' in Syria set for Friday 02:41KESHAKerfuffle: Singer Kesha says she was drugged and raped by her producer, Dr. Luke. Not true, he said in a series of tweets last night. But there's more to this than just a " : Singer Kesha says she was drugged and raped by her producer, Dr. Luke. Not true, he said in a series of tweets last night. But there's more to this than just a " he said, she said :" Kesha's trying to get out of her six-album contract with Luke. So Luke says this is nothing more than a desperate attempt by the singer. Not true, says Kesha - and she has the backing of some big time friends , including T-Swift.JUST WATCHED Taylor Swift gives $250,000 to Kesha Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Taylor Swift gives $250,000 to Kesha 00:55BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.What is wrong with this picture?A 3-year-old Egyptian boy has been sentenced to life for a crime he allegedly committed when he was 16-months-old . Um, yeah.Check you outMastercard just launched selfie payments , so now you can duck-face while you purchase. .King of countryCountry crooner Sonny James, who ruled the charts in the 60s and 70s, is dead at 87Protector and predatorThis video perfectly captures the relationship between you, your dog and your stupid cat.Let the voice of God lead youAND FINALLY ...Look at me when I'm talking to youThis toddler goes perfectly still when he gets in trouble. How can moms stay mad?