Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Planning an exit. Going nowhere. Gaining the gold. It's Monday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. JapanJapanese Emperor Akihito is 82 and in declining health. So he wants to step dow n. One problem: The law says an emperor must stay on the job until death. Any changes would require approval by parliament -- but it could also invite a broader debate on whether there's even the need for an emperor in modern Japan. By the way, Akihito made the announcement during a speech, which is a rare thing in itself. An emperor's spoken to the public only two other times: at the end of World War II and after the Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011.2. DeltaGot a flight on Delta this morning? You'll be going nowhere fast. That's because all flights are grounded due to a global computer system outage . Delta says it hopes to get its systems up and running soon. Passengers groused online of being being stuck on the tarmac at airports around the world.3. The PhilippinesYou've got 24 hours to turn yourself in, or we'll hunt you down. The words of some Old West sheriff? Nope. That's Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte who gave more than 150 government officials until today to surrender . He says they're part of the country's illegal drug trade. Critics say Duterte offered no evidence and that the whole exercise may be unconstitutional. Duterte has been waging an aggressive war: More than 500 suspected drug dealers have been killed by police or vigilantes since he took office in June.4. Pennsylvania murder-suicideWillow Short's life was tough from the get-go. Born with a congenital heart defect in May 2014, she had a heart transplant at just 6 days old. But her life came to a violent end over the weekend when she -- along with her sister, brother and parents -- was shot to death . The bodies, and a handgun, were found in the living room of the family's Pennsylvania home with a note indicating it was a murder-suicide. Police wouldn't say who wrote the note, but they mentioned "domestic issues" between Willow's parents.5. OlympicsBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Prime six-packCanada's hunky prime minister, Justin Trudeau, creates a stir wherever he goes, even when he doesn't mean to, like when he photobombed a weddin g.One last swingA-Rod's last game is Friday . But the legacy of the New York Yankees legend is forever tarnished because of the performance-enhancing drugs nonsense.Not so scaryNo more "Scary Lucy." A new, smiling statue honoring Lucille Ball was unveiled over the weekend, after residents pitched a fit over the earlier, scarier version.The first timeThink you make all your decisions when it comes to sex? Apparently not, say scientists, who say our genes determine a lot , like when we lose our virginity.Super comicHead up to the attic and raid that old comic books stash, because a rare Superman comic from 1938 sold for almost $1 million last week.Number of the day13The golf handicap of President Obama, who's set to play his 300th round of golf as president this week in Martha's Vineyard.AND FINALLY ...Read my lipsIt's Jimmy Fallon, Seth Rogen and the songs of Kent Jones and Drake in an epic lip sync battle on "The Tonight Show."