Baton Rouge, Louisiana (CNN) They're out in force, patrolling in jon boats, motorboats and even canoes through south Louisiana's new, flood-made waterways, saving cats, dogs and people.They're known as the "Cajun Navy," and in recent days they've become possibly the nation's most important neighborhood watch.Troy Green, from Ascension Parish just south of Baton Rouge, loaded up his boat after hearing the Cajun Navy needed a few good sailors.He drove to East Baton Rouge Parish where the National Guard had a staging area."I am here to help," he said. "Where do you need me?"They paired him with a local man and the two spent a full day pulling people -- at least two of them in wheelchairs -- out of flooded houses.#waterrescue today in #batonrouge Most were in good spirits and glad to see us. #louisianaflood #louisianastrong #louisianaproud #prodriveoutboards #unclejcustomboats #prayforlouisiana #cajunnavy A photo posted by Troy Green (@1troyg) on Aug 14, 2016 at 4:56pm PDTAt one point Green recalled having nine people, a cat and two dogs aboard. He had to return the next day to get a lady's pet bird."People were brokenhearted. You could see it," he told CNN. "You couldn't put a smile on their face."The devastation, he said, was overwhelming.'People come together here'Kirk Thibodeaux, 38, of Labadieville, said Wednesday he'd been up almost 36 hours rescuing folks as a member of the Cajun Navy.As he stood barefoot in a sleeveless T-shirt awaiting marching orders with dozens of other boat owners, he said that if there was going to be a good place to have a flood of this magnitude, Southern Louisiana is it."People come together here like nowhere else," he said.Lots of police, National Guard & private boat owners meeting in Gonzales before dawn. #BatonRougeFlood pic.twitter.com/wZYnTnU7jG — Eliott C. McLaughlin (@EliottCNN) August 17, 2016The group met in the parking lot of a Gonzales outdoors store Wednesday at 6 a.m., where Ascension Parish deputies told them they weren't needed because there had been no calls for help since the previous night.A group of about 10 men seemed skeptical of the report and formed a convoy heading to Denham Springs. The destruction was evident -- waterlogged cars sat on the side of the road and in front of budget hotels -- but the water had receded and people seemed in recovery rather than rescue mode.At one of the few #DenhamSprings convenience stores with gasoline, inventory getting thin. pic.twitter.com/Slljpxwpev — Eliott C. McLaughlin (@EliottCNN) August 17, 2016In the South Point subdivision just outside Denham Springs, the New Orleans-based Louisiana Task Force 1 walked through yards with a K-9 unit knocking on doors. If no one answered and the folks next door couldn't account for their neighbors' whereabouts, they'd enter the home to ensure no one was inside.Throughout the neighborhood, garage doors were bent inwards and sandbags -- no match for the flooding -- sat scattered in front of homes.Many residents had returned -- some armed with giant fans and air-filtration masks -- to begin the arduous task of salvaging what belongings they could and assessing the damage to their homes.Probably the end of the line for me. Boat tied to a street sign & water as far as the eye can see. #BatonRougeFlood pic.twitter.com/i2BHSi8i6X — Eliott C. McLaughlin (@EliottCNN) August 17, 2016In nearby Acy, St. Amant and Sorrento, the water had yet to recede. Many homes sat in yards with as much as 6 feet of water, which in some places flowed with the current of a mighty river.'Trying to wake people up'Steve Spell set out to do what he could in his village of Springfield, in Livingston Parish, one of the hardest-hit areas.His Warsaw Marina neighborhood was cut off from the outside world, and his neighbors had formed an emergency camp on a remaining section of dry ground.Spell made a series of trips to check on neighbors and found one elderly woman wading through her kitchen, where she had several dogs in portable pet cages."I've been coming back and forth to check on animals and deliver food and water," he said. "It's not the safest area to be in at all."Ann Chapman carries a dog she helped rescue in Baton Rouge.Terry Felder said he barely made it out of his neighborhood in Denham Springs, east of Baton Rouge. He awoke the morning of the flood and stepped outside to see water rising, quickly. The road outside his house was rapidly becoming a river.He didn't return to shut the front door of his home. He just made for his vehicle."I immediately jumped in and took off, and started blowing the horn right there; and I just leaned on the horn all the way," he told CNN on Tuesday. "Stopped in front of all the houses, blowing the horn, trying to wake people up."It woke people up, but it was too late for them. Most of these people were in their beds sleeping."An 'unprecedented' delugeTens of thousands were forced to abandon their homes and virtually all their belongings.Some didn't escape in time. At least 13 people have died in the flooding.JUST WATCHED Watch rescuers pull woman from Louisiana flooding Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch rescuers pull woman from Louisiana flooding 00:59Because this flooding was not spawned by a named storm or hurricane, Gov. John Bel Edwards called the deluge "historic" and "unprecedented."More than 20 inches of rain have pummeled Baton Rouge since last week, and more is on the way, forecasters said. Scattered showers and thunderstorms are expected to continue through the week.Rescuing 20,000 peopleThe Coast Guard and other first responders scrambled to rescue more than 20,000 people and 1,000 pets.Civilians also doubled as rescuers. David Phung pulled a woman and her dog from her car after it had plunged underwater.A casket sits on a road in Baton Rouge after getting washed out in flooding.Jessica May and her family were among those rescued. After getting ferried away on a boat, she said, they walked on a flooded interstate in hopes of finding drier ground."Good God the water wasn't high" on the interstate, she said. "My kids were able to walk through the water."It wasn't just the living that endured the deluge. The flooding appeared to wash out at least one casket from its grave site as seen in a photo taken in Baton Rouge.Volunteers wanted"We are going to need volunteers to get mud out of homes," Edwards said Tuesday. "Not everyone can do this on their own."Officials asked anyone interested in helping to visit VolunteerLouisiana.govDisaster areas declaredJUST WATCHED Louisiana flooding sweeps away man's home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Louisiana flooding sweeps away man's home 01:12Edwards said he expects to have close to 30 parishes -- almost half of the state's 64 parishes -- declared disaster areasSo far, President Barack Obama has granted the governor's request for an emergency declaration in 12 parishes, Edwards said Tuesday.The Louisiana National Guard has mobilized 1,700 soldiers to help with search and rescue efforts, and military police are assisting local law enforcement with security.But search efforts and security aren't the only concerns.#Cajunnavy helping a neighbor's mom retrieve some of her belongings. #louisianaflood #prodriveoutboards #unclejcustomboats #backwaterperformancesystems #louisianastrong #louisianaproud A video posted by Troy Green (@1troyg) on Aug 15, 2016 at 4:04pm PDT"We're going to have standing water all over south Louisiana," the governor said. "We're going to have more than our share of mosquitoes. And with the Zika threat, we need assistance to spray for mosquitoes and for mosquito control and abatement. That is made available to us as a result of the declaration."The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Ben Beard said experts will be monitoring the situation, but generally, the agency is not concerned about floods triggering the spread of the Zika virus.Mosquitoes that transmit diseases are killed by the same rains that cause the flooding, experts say. Large rain events can actually reduce the number of disease-transmitting mosquitoes.Alleged lootingEast Baton Rouge Sheriff's deputies arrested four men on allegations of looting, the sheriff's office said. Detectives in rescue vehicles spotted one of the men walking from a store Monday night to a vehicle containing the other three men. Detectives found goods valued at $750 in the vehicle, officials said.Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Baron Leblanc, left, and George Snyder move a refrigerator out of George's flooded home in St. Amant on Thursday, August 18. More than 30,000 people have been rescued in southern Louisiana after heavy rains caused flooding. "This is a major disaster," Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards has said. Hide Caption 1 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says A Virgin Mary statue is barely visible in front of a flooded home in St. Amant on August 18. Hide Caption 2 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Flooding affects a chicken coop in Sorrento on August 17. Hide Caption 3 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Kade Lewis helps gut his grandparents' home in Walker on Wednesday, August 17, after flooding. Hide Caption 4 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Caskets float in floodwaters near a cemetery in Gonzales on August 17. Hide Caption 5 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says A man talks on his phone while helping salvage items from a house in Denham Springs on August 17. Hide Caption 6 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Gary Schexnayder stands in a flooded street in Sorrento as an early morning fog blankets the area August 17. Hide Caption 7 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says David Key looks outside his flooded home in Prairieville on Tuesday, August 16. Hide Caption 8 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Raymond Lieteau waits for help to move a refrigerator as his friend Melissa Lockhart helps clean up the living room in his flood-damaged home in Baton Rouge on August 16. Lieteau had more than 5 feet of water in his home. Hide Caption 9 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Danny and Alys Messenger canoe away from their flooded home in Prairieville on August 16. Hide Caption 10 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says A pickup truck is partially submerged in Port Vincent, Louisiana, on August 16. Hide Caption 11 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Cattle are driven through a flooded road in Sorrento as they are herded to trucks on August 16. Hide Caption 12 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says People sort through water-damaged products outside Jasmine's Beauty Supply in Baton Rouge on August 16. Hide Caption 13 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says A man navigates a boat of rescued goats past a partially submerged car in Gonzales on August 16. Hide Caption 14 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Noel Michael holds up a cell-phone photo of her flooded home in Livingston, Louisiana, on Monday, August 15. Hide Caption 15 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Ann Chapman, from the Louisiana State Animal Response Team, carries a dog she helped rescue in Baton Rouge on August 15. Hide Caption 16 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Eli Turnage hands out water to people waiting in line at Carter's Supermarket in Livingston on August 15. Hide Caption 17 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says A boy in Baton Rouge rides his bike inside the flood-damaged Life Tabernacle Church on August 15. Hide Caption 18 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Ryan Evans makes his way through Baton Rouge on August 15. Hide Caption 19 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Robert Enfinger and his wife, Michelle, spend the night in a church that had been turned into an evacuation shelter in Walker. Hide Caption 20 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Tracy Thornton walks to his house through a flooded neighborhood in Baton Rouge on August 15. Hide Caption 21 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Floodwaters surround prefabricated houses in Denham Springs on August 15. Hide Caption 22 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Evacuees spend time together at the church shelter in Walker on August 15. Hide Caption 23 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says An American flag hangs in floodwaters in Walker on August 15. Hide Caption 24 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Danielle Blount and her 3-month-old baby, Ember, wait to be rescued by the Louisiana Army National Guard near Walker on Sunday, August 14. Hide Caption 25 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Members of the Louisiana Army National Guard help people near Walker on August 14. Hide Caption 26 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Youngsville police Chief Rickey Boudreaux takes a break from helping flood victims to view the damage to his own home on August 14. Hide Caption 27 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Jennifer Bernard and her dog, Shelby, travel by kayak down the flooded streets of Youngsville on August 14. Hide Caption 28 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Floodwaters inundate a street in Youngsville on August 14. Hide Caption 29 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says A girl takes her horse out on a dry road near Walker on August 14. Hide Caption 30 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Emergency personnel rescue flood victims near Walker on August 14. Hide Caption 31 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Those displaced by the flooding wait to board National Guard trucks at a Denham Springs church on August 14. Hide Caption 32 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Residents evacuate Hammond, Louisiana, with food in ice chests on Saturday, August 13. Hide Caption 33 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Floodwaters overwhelm businesses in Hammond on August 13. Hide Caption 34 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Jeff Robinson lowers a ladder from a National Guard truck as his wife wades through floodwaters near their home in Baptist, Louisiana, on August 13. Hide Caption 35 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says An aerial view of flood-damaged homes in Hammond on August 13. Hide Caption 36 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Tammie Wise holds her dog, Mikey, after Jeffrey Lesage helped rescue them in Central, Louisiana, on August 13. Hide Caption 37 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says A resident wades through floodwaters at apartments near Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. Hide Caption 38 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says A firefighter brings luggage to hotel guests during an evacuation of the Fairfield Inn in Lafayette, Louisiana, on August 13. Hide Caption 39 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says People ride an all-terrain vehicle through a flooded neighborhood in Carencro, Louisiana, on August 13. Hide Caption 40 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says The Tangipahoa River overflows near the towns of Amite, Independence, Tickfaw and Robert on August 13. Hide Caption 41 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Officials close down an exit off Interstate 55 south in Independence as floodwaters creep closer to the highway on August 13. Hide Caption 42 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Jeremy and Chelsea LeMieux paddle through floodwaters in Carencro on August 13. Hide Caption 43 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Rescue personnel and civilians team up to pull people from their homes along the Tangipahoa River on August 13. Hide Caption 44 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says Cattle huddle together in floodwaters near Hammond on August 13. Hide Caption 45 of 46 Photos: Louisiana flooding is 'major disaster,' governor says A firefighter helps a resident in Baton Rouge on Friday, August 12. Hide Caption 46 of 46Over the last 24 hours, about 10 people have been arrested for looting in the parish, the office said.On Tuesday night, Sheriff Sid Gautreaux announced a curfew in the parish between 10 p.m. CT and 7 a.m. CT.'She just breaks down and cries'Neighbors Brad Jacobs and Erik Lang surveyed the mess caused by floodwaters surrounding their homes. Shoes, children's toys and household items floated through knee-deep water."We're praying it stops where it is," said Kelly's neighbor, Jenny Ragland, whose home on a ridge was spared similar damage.Toni Denova says she hopes to save her family photos.Neighbor Toni Denova just bought new furniture, but she's not worried about it. All she wants is to preserve her family photographs against the rising floodwater."I have a boxful of pictures in my garage that I hope get saved. That's all I really care about," she said.