Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Pulling for a prosecutor. Battling in the bathroom. Beating the backlash. It's Tuesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Campaign 2016Donald Trump's upped the ante against Hillary Clinton. He wants a special prosecutor to investigate her, specifically the coziness between the State Department when she was secretary of state and the Clinton Foundation. Expect to hear about even more Clinton emails and other documents, now that State's been ordered to review and release almost 15,000 documents between her and her top aides.2. Bathroom battlesA federal judge in Texas has issued a nationwide injunction that stops federal agencies from punishing school districts that won't follow the administration's guidance on transgender bathroom use. The administration's position is that under Title IX, if you're a school getting federal $$, you can't discriminate based on a student's transgender status.3. S.C. church shootingNew court documents show accused Charleston church shooter Dylann Roof wrote two manifestos -- one before he killed nine people at Emanuel AME Church and another in jail -- and they lay out a list of churches and his "selection of victims." The documents say he wanted to attack during Bible study because it would cause the most outrage.4. North KoreaNorth Korea's at it again. This time the North's threatening the annual joint military exercises between the US and South Korea. If things get out of hand or too aggressive (in the North's eyes), it promises a "pre-emptive nuclear strike." The North's pretty ticked off about a lot of things lately, including the recent defection of the highest-ranking North Korean official in decades.5. BurkiniIt's the backlash to the backlash. The woman who created the burkini said sales are up 90% ever since some French beaches banned the full-length swimsuit worn by some Muslim women. And an Algerian businessman is fighting back with his checkbook -- paying the fines of those who do.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.America's next top professorYou may want to register for this class early: Supermodel Tyra Banks is teaching a class on creating and protecting brands at Stanford next year.Nice neighborsWhen the Phillips family home in Washington state was hit with racist graffiti, they didn't have to rush home. Their neighbors took care of itDon't look downThe world's highest and longest glass-bottomed bridge is open in China. It's built 984 feet high over a canyon. If that's not enough -- it has a bungee jump.Phantom production?It's like a plot from "The Producers": Manhattan prosecutors say an ex-talent agent conned seven people out of $165,000 for a fake Broadway playIt's a dateFirst she got the gold, now she gets the guy. US gymnast Aly Raisman's going on a date with an Oakland Raider, thanks to a video request.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up laterFlood tourAfter being criticized for not going sooner, President Obama tours flood damage in southern Louisiana today.AND FINALLY ...Soccer starOlympic soccer might have inspired a lot of people to pick up the sport the past couple of weeks, including Hudson, the baby muskox.