Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Stopping the blasts. Predicting the storms. Making ancient history. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Thailand2. Campaign 2016Team Clinton got a day off from talking about emails. But it had to deal with something it probably finds just as unappealing -- questions about the relationship between the Clinton Foundation and Hillary Clinton's State Department. A CNN investigation discovered that a top Clinton aide at State traveled to New York to interview a pair of job candidates for the Clinton Foundation back in 2012. Well, that sounds cozy. Also, and this one's for Donald Trump, Obama was not the founder of ISIS.3. HurricanesWe're almost halfway through the Atlantic hurricane season, and there hasn't been that many storms, so we're pretty much home free, right? Don't bet on it, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says. As a matter of fact, NOAA is upping its forecast for named storms from 10-16 to 12-17. Why? The second half of the season is always the busiest, plus other factors like a weakening El Nino are creating conditions for what could be the busiest hurricane season in four years.4. Amusement park accidentsIt's been a tough week at the nation's amusement parks, which saw its fourth accident in five days yesterday when a boy fell off a roller coaster in Pennsylvania. The child was airlifted to a hospital in Pittsburgh. On Monday, three children were hurt after falling from a Ferris wheel in Tennessee. On Sunday, a 10-year-old boy died while riding a water slide in Kansas City.5. OlympicsBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Eye on the skyGet the popcorn ready: NASA says an increased rate of meteors makes this year's Perseid meteor shower the one blockbuster you have to see.Northern neighborsThink all of our NAFTA complaints involve Mexico? Nope, those nice Canadians beyond our northern border are giving us all the trade troubles.Back in blackHe was in it for barely a second, but he still stole the show. A new trailer for "Rogue One" debuted last night, with a glimpse of galactic baddie Darth Vader.The walking deadSeoul's launching an assault on "smartphone zombies" who never look up from their phones. They need to do the same thing over here.Creative differencesAn actor and a writer on "Criminal Minds" had a little disagreement over the script. They settled it like civilized people do: with a kick and a suspensionNumber of the day100The number of stores being closed by Macy's. The retailer has suffered through six straight quarters of declines in sales.AND FINALLY ...Just swingin'A guy builds a giant swing at his home, because we guess he's confusing his backyard with the fairgrounds or something.