Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Lochtegate, Louisiana and leverage. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Lochtegate2. Campaign 2016It wasn't an apology, but it's the closest Donald Trump's ever come to saying 'My bad.' Trump, in his first rally since shaking up his campaign team, said he sometimes says "the wrong thing" and regrets - he's had a few. Aww, a new, reflective Trump ... or was this a one-off? Meanwhile, the Clinton Foundation promises not to accept foreign or corporate donations if Hillary Clinton is president; Bill Clinton's also swearing off paid speeches then. It's all part of Team Clinton's attempt to shed those pesky pay-to-play charges.3. Louisiana floodingThe deluge that's swamped southern Louisiana is the worst natural disaster to hit the US since Hurricane Sandy . And the misery will be with us for many, many days. At least a dozen parishes are still under flood warnings and more storms are in the forecast. Louisiana's flat, so the water goes down very slowly. As CNN meteorologist Dave Hennen put it, "This is a very lumbering, slow, slow flood."JUST WATCHED CNN drone cam shows devastation in Louisiana Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN drone cam shows devastation in Louisiana 00:45Bird's-eyeA CNN drone camera gives an up-close view of the devastation in Louisiana.4. IranIt wasn't a ransom -- it was leverage. That's how the State Department explains why a US plane filled with $400 million was held up until Iran released American prisoners. State says it was worried Iran would back out on its agreement to free the prisoners earlier this year. So the money -- owed to Iran -- was used as a sort of carrot. But, State insists, it wasn't a straight-up quid pro quo. It only seems that way.5. OlympicsBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Free rideThought self-driving cars were waaaay in the future? Think again. Soon in Pittsburgh you'll be able to catch a free Uber ride in a Volvo that drives itself.Going awayGawker's a goner. The snarky journalism site will shut down next week, as Univision buys it and related websites for $135 million.Baring it allHow do you know when we're about to get into the heart of the presidential election? When a life-size, naked statue of Donald Trump pops up in a park.Cracked truthsFirst we learned flossing has no benefits. Now we find out knuckle-cracking may be actually good for you ? Thanks for nothing, mom!Joining the jet setWell that's one way to get frequent flyer miles: A baby born on a flight from Dubai to Manila was gifted 1 million air miles by a Philippines airline.AND FINALLY ...Bust a moveReporters are all over Louisiana covering the floods, so this talented little boy decided to turn a live shot into "America's Got Talent."