Story highlights Bradley Manning, 25, is charged with violations of the Espionage ActHis case is in the hands of a military judge who will decide his guilt or innocenceManning was arrested on May 27, 2010He is accused of releasing upwards of three-quarters of a million classified documentsIs Pfc. Bradley Mannin g an idealist who became disillusioned by what was being done in Iraq and elsewhere in the name of U.S. national interests, as the attorney for the former Army intelligence analyst has argued?Or is he, as the prosecution contends, a traitor who leaked classified material to WikiLeaks that he knew could assist terrorists?The formal answers to those questions, at least, will come in the anticipated verdict by a military judge , who will decide Manning's guilt or innocence in a case that has been described as the largest leak of classified material in U.S. history.Authorities have accused Manning of delivering three-quarters of million pages of classified documents and videos to WikiLeaks -- which has never confirmed the soldier was the source of its information -- about everything from the U.S. military strategy in Iraq to U.S. State Department cables detailing its foreign relationships.There is little debate over the basics of the case: Manning pleaded guilty in February to 10 lesser charges related to the leaks, and spent more than an hour in court reading a statement that detailed why and how he sent classified material to WikiLeaks -- a group that facilitates the anonymous leaking of secret information through its website.Photos: Key WikiLeaks figures in Manning trial Photos: Key WikiLeaks figures in Manning trial Key WikiLeaks figures in Manning trial – Army Pfc. Bradley Manning was convicted July 30 of stealing and disseminating 750,000 pages of classified documents and videos to WikiLeaks, and the counts against him included violations of the Espionage Act. He was found guilty of 20 of the 22 charges but acquitted of the most serious charge, aiding the enemy. He was sentenced to 35 years in prison. Hide Caption 1 of 5 Photos: Key WikiLeaks figures in Manning trial Key WikiLeaks figures in Manning trial – Before the court-martial began, Manning's attorney, David Coombs, thanked people for their support and fundraising efforts in "this important case." Hide Caption 2 of 5 Photos: Key WikiLeaks figures in Manning trial Key WikiLeaks figures in Manning trial – Former hacker Adrian Lamo turned Manning in to authorities. The Army private allegedly told Lamo about leaking the classified records. Hide Caption 3 of 5 Photos: Key WikiLeaks figures in Manning trial Key WikiLeaks figures in Manning trial – WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange fled to the Ecuadorian Embassy in London in June 2012 to avoid extradition to Sweden, where he is wanted for questioning over allegations that he raped one woman and sexually molested another. Assange has said he fears Sweden will transfer him to the United States, where he could face the death penalty for the work of WikiLeaks if he were charged or convicted of a crime. Manning has said he gave material to WikiLeaks after initially trying to contact The New York Times and The Washington Post. WikiLeaks has never confirmed that Manning was the source of its information. Hide Caption 4 of 5 Photos: Key WikiLeaks figures in Manning trial Key WikiLeaks figures in Manning trial – Daniel Domscheit-Berg, a longtime volunteer and spokesman for WikiLeaks, was considered to be Assange's closest collaborator. He quit WikiLeaks and said Assange's personality was distracting from the group's original mission. Domscheit-Berg went on to publish a tell-all book about the inner workings of WikiLeaks. He wrote that Assange evolved into a "paranoid, power-hungry, megalomaniac." Hide Caption 5 of 5Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers Former intelligence worker Edward Snowden revealed himself as the source of documents outlining a massive effort by the NSA to track cell phone calls and monitor the e-mail and Internet traffic of virtually all Americans. He says he just wanted the public to know what the government was doing. "Even if you're not doing anything wrong, you're being watched and recorded," he said. Snowden has been granted temporary asylum in Russia after initially fleeing to Hong Kong. He has been charged with three felony counts, including violations of the U.S. Espionage Act, over the leaks. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers Military analyst Daniel Ellsberg leaked the 7,000-page Pentagon Papers in 1971. The top-secret documents revealed that senior American leaders, including three presidents, knew the Vietnam War was an unwinnable, tragic quagmire. Further, they showed that the government had lied to Congress and the public about the progress of the war. Ellsberg surrendered to authorities and was charged as a spy. During his trial, the court learned that President Richard Nixon's administration had embarked on a campaign to discredit Ellsberg, illegally wiretapping him and breaking into his psychiatrist's office. All charges against him were dropped. Since then he has lived a relatively quiet life as a respected author and lecturer. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers Starting in 1932, the U.S. Public Health Service studied untreated syphilis in black men who thought they were getting free health care. The patients weren't told of their affliction or sufficiently treated. Peter Buxtun, who worked for the Public Health Service, relayed information about the Tuskegee syphilis experiment to a reporter in 1972, which halted the 40-year study. His testimony at congressional hearings led to an overhaul of the Health, Education and Welfare rules concerning work with human subjects. A class-action lawsuit was settled out-of-court for $10 million, with the U.S. government promising free medical care to survivors and their families. Here, participants talk with a study coordinator. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers In 2005, retired deputy FBI director Mark Felt revealed himself to be the whistle-blower "Deep Throat" in the Watergate scandal. He anonymously assisted Washington Post reporters Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward with many of their stories about the Nixon administration's cover-up after the June 1972 break-in at the Democratic National Committee headquarters. The stories sparked a congressional investigation that eventually led to President Nixon's resignation in 1974. The Post won a Pulitzer Prize for its coverage. Felt was convicted on unrelated conspiracy charges in 1980 and eventually pardoned by President Ronald Reagan before slipping into obscurity for the next quarter-century. He died in 2008 at age 95. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers Mordechai Vanunu , who worked as a technician at Israel's nuclear research facility, leaked information to a British newspaper and led nuclear arms analysts to conclude that Israel possessed a stockpile of nuclear weapons. Israel has neither confirmed nor denied its weapons program. An Israeli court convicted Vanunu in 1986 after Israeli intelligence agents captured him in Italy. He was sentenced to 18 years in prison. Since his release in 2004, he has been arrested on a number of occasions for violating terms of his parole. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers President Ronald Reagan addresses the media in 1987, months after the disclosure of the Iran-Contra affair . A secret operation carried out by an American military officer used proceeds from weapons sales to Iran to fund the anti-communist Contras in Nicaragua and attempted to secure the release of U.S. hostages held by Iran-backed Hezbollah in Lebanon. Mehdi Hashemi, an officer of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, leaked evidence of the deal to a Lebanese newspaper in 1986. Reagan's closest aides maintain he did not fully know, and only reluctantly came to accept, the circumstances of the operation. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers Tobacco industry executive Jeffrey Wigand issued a memo to his company in 1992 about his concerns regarding tobacco additives. He was fired in March 1993 and subsequently contacted by "60 Minutes" and persuaded to tell his story on CBS. He claimed that Brown & Williamson knowingly used additives that were carcinogenic and addictive and spent millions covering it up. He also testified in a landmark case in Mississippi that resulted in a $246 billion settlement from the tobacco industry. Wigand has received public recognition for his actions and continues to crusade against Big Tobacco. He was portrayed by Russell Crowe in the 1999 film " The Insider ." Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers For 10 years, Frederic Whitehurst complained mostly in vain about practices at the FBI's world-renowned crime lab, where he worked. His efforts eventually led to a 1997 investigation that found lab agents produced inaccurate and scientifically flawed testimony in major cases, including the Oklahoma City and World Trade Center bombings. The Justice Department recommended major reforms but also criticized Whitehurst for "overstated and incendiary" allegations. He also faced disciplinary action for refusing to cooperate with an investigation into how some of his allegations were leaked to a magazine. After a yearlong paid suspension he left the bureau in 1998 with a settlement worth more than $1.16 million. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers FBI whistle-blower Coleen Rowley accused the bureau of hindering efforts to investigate a suspected terrorist that could have disrupted plans for the September 11, 2001, terror attacks. In 2002 she fired off a 13-page letter to FBI Director Robert Mueller and flew to Washington to hand-deliver copies to two members of the Senate Intelligence Committee and meet with committee staffers. The letter accused the bureau of deliberately undermining requests to look into Zacarias Moussaoui , the only person convicted in the United States of playing a role in the attacks. She testified in front of Congress and the 9/11 Commission about the FBI's mishandling of information. Rowley was selected as one of Time magazine's People of the Year in 2002 , along with whistle-blowers Sherron Watkins of Enron and Cynthia Cooper of WorldCom. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers Sherron Watkins, a former vice president at Enron, sent an anonymous letter to founder Kenneth Lay in 2001 warning him the company had accounting irregularities. The memo eventually reached the public and she later testified before Congress about her concerns and the company's wrongdoings. More than 4,000 Enron employees lost their jobs, and many also lost their life savings, when the energy giant declared bankruptcy in 2001. Investors lost billions of dollars. An investigation in 2002 found that Enron executives reaped millions of dollars from off-the-books partnerships and violated basic rules of accounting and ethics. Many were sentenced to prison for their roles in the Enron scandal Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers Cynthia Cooper and her team of auditors uncovered massive fraud at WorldCom in 2002. They found that the long-distance telephone provider had used $3.8 billion in questionable accounting entries to inflate earnings over the past five quarters. By the end of 2003, the total fraud was estimated to be $11 billion. The company filed for bankruptcy protection and five executives ended up in prison. Cooper started her own consulting firm and told her story in the book "Extraordinary Circumstances: The Journey of a Corporate Whistleblower." Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers In 2003, federal air marshal Robert MacLean anonymously tipped off an MSNBC reporter that because of budget concerns, the TSA was temporarily suspending missions that would require marshals to stay in hotels just days after they were briefed about a new "potential plot" to hijack U.S. airliners. The news caused an immediate uproar on Capitol Hill and the TSA retreated, withdrawing the scheduling cuts before they went into effect. MacLean was later investigated and fired for the unauthorized disclosure of "sensitive security information." Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers Joe Darby is the whistle-blower behind the Abu Ghraib prison abuse scandal in Iraq. He says he asked Army Reserve Spc. Charles Graner Jr. for photos from their travels so he could share them with family. Instead, he was given photos of prisoner abuse. Darby eventually alerted the U.S. military command, triggering an investigation and global outrage when the scandal came to light in 2004. Graner was sentenced to 10 years in prison for his part in the abuse. He was released in 2011 after serving 6½ years of his sentence. The military and members of Darby's own family ostracized him, calling him a traitor. Eventually he and his wife had to enter protective custody. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers The New York Times reported in 2005 that in the months after the September 11, 2001, attacks, President George W. Bush authorized the U.S. National Security Agency to eavesdrop without a court warrant on people in the United States, including American citizens, suspected of communicating with al Qaeda members overseas. The Bush administration staunchly defended the controversial surveillance program. Russ Tice, an NSA insider, came forward as one of the anonymous sources used by the Times. He said he was concerned about alleged abuses and a lack of oversight. Here, President Bush participates in a conversation about the Patriot Act in Buffalo, New York, in April 2004. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Notable leakers and whistle-blowers Army Pfc. Bradley Manning was convicted July 30 of stealing and disseminating 750,000 pages of classified documents and videos to WikiLeaks, and the counts against him included violations of the Espionage Act. He was found guilty of 20 of the 22 charges but acquitted of the most serious charge -- aiding the enemy. Manning is set to speak in his defense when he takes the stand during the sentencing phase of his court-martial on Wednesday, August 14. He could face up to 90 years in prison if the judge imposes the maximum sentence. Hide Caption 15 of 15JUST WATCHED How much damage did Snowden, Manning do? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How much damage did Snowden, Manning do? 02:12JUST WATCHED New documentary examines WikiLeaks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New documentary examines WikiLeaks 04:56But Manning refused to plead guilty to the most serious allegations, including that of aiding enemies of the United States -- a charge that falls under the Espionage Act and carries a sentence of life in prison, if convicted.As the soldier sits in a military prison cell at Maryland's Fort Meade awaiting word of his fate, questions remain about what damage his actions caused to U.S. intelligence gathering.The answer depends on who is doing in the talking."Osama bin Laden asked for some of the information himself," the prosecutor, Army Maj. Ashden Fein, said during his closing argument Thursday, referring to the documents provided to WikiLeaks by Manning.But Manning's attorney, David Coombs, told the court Friday that despite claims that the leaks harmed national security, the Army did not make any major changes to its operation.It's a sentiment that has been echoed publicly by his supporters."They really have not reported any great impact. More embarrassment than anything else," Kevin Zeese of the Bradley Manning Support Network, an online group that supports the soldier's actions and has been raising funds for his legal defense.Embarrassing or not, the publication of the leaks rocked the U.S. government, with then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton saying the release of the material threatened the lives of Americans and damaged foreign relationships.Prosecution witnesses have testified Manning downloaded and leaked 400,000 Pentagon field reports from Iraq and 90,0000 similar documents from Afghanistan. There evidence also was presented that he downloaded and leaked more than 250,000 State Department cables.'Collateral Murder' videoFor most people, the story began on April 5, 2010, when WikiLeaks released a video that it called "Collateral Murder."The video was shot from a U.S. Apache helicopter as it opened fire on a group of people in Baghdad in 2007, killing a dozen people. Among the dead were a Reuters TV news cameraman and his driver.The video showed Reuters' Saeed Chmagh survived an initial strafing by the helicopter, but apparently died when it opened fire again -- this time on people attempting to get him off the sidewalk where he lay and into a van.The footage quickly made news, elevating what was once a virtually unknown WikiLeaks to a globally recognized name. Later, a U.S. investigation into the attack found that the crew mistook the journalists' cameras for weapons while seeking out insurgents who had been firing at American troops in the area.But, according to court documents and testimony, by the time the world saw the video, Manning had already downloaded hundreds of thousands of classified documents and videos.Within months, Manning was behind bars, accused of using his computer skills to commit what the government called treason.From Oklahoma to IraqIt was a far cry from his beginnings.Hailing from the small Oklahoma town of Crescent, population less than 1,300, he was a gearhead with a love of computer games and a passion for current events, his friends and family told CNN in 2011.After working a series of part-time jobs and, at one point, living out of his car, he joined the Army in 2007.But it was a tough acclimation, his friends later said, in large part because of the military's "don't ask, don't tell" policy. According to friends and his own writings on the Internet, Manning is openly gay.Then, in 2009, Manning deployed to Iraq.He was at Forward Operating Base Hammer in southeast Baghdad, where he worked as an analyst reviewing possible threats to U.S. troops.According to Fein, the prosecutor, within two weeks of his arrival in Iraq, Manning began working with WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange over what to leak and how to do it.Assange has taken refuge at the Ecuadorean Embassy in London to avoid extradition to Sweden to face questioning in sex-crimes allegations, charges he claims are a ruse by allies of Washington to arrest him and then extradite him to the United States to face charges.Manning spent hours at work during off-hours downloading documents, Fein said.Manning, the prosecutor said, was well aware of the military's policy about divulging classified material and the repercussions of doing it. The soldier had even taught classes about protecting the material, Fein said."Manning had no allegiance to the United States," Fein told the court last week, adding that he was "not a whistle-blower; he was a traitor."But Manning's attorney offered another picture, one in which the war deeply affected his client.It began, his attorney told the court, after an attack on a convoy with his comrades. A roadside bomb exploded beneath a car full of civilians that had pulled aside to let the military vehicles pass.Although members of his 305th Military Intelligence Battalion were not hurt, Coombs said, at least one civilian was killed. That changed Manning's outlook on the war, his lawyer said. He "struggled."He was further disturbed by the "Collateral Murder" video, the attorney said."Did they all deserve to die? That is what Pfc. Manning is seeing when he watches this," Coombs told the judge after playing the video in court.It was for those reasons, according to Coombs, that Manning then started selecting information to reveal, believing that it would be better if it were public.Coombs said his client was selective in the information he diverted from a controlled-access computer system where he worked as an "all source" intelligence analyst.What would you do?It began with a message said to be posted by Manning, using the instant message handle "bradass87.""If you had unprecedented access to classified networks 14 hours a day 7 days a week for 8+ months, what would you do?" it read.According to testimony, that was purportedly part of a string of instant messages that a person sent to Lamo, who was convicted in 2004 for hacking The New York Times, Microsoft and Lexis-Nexis computer systems.Over a period of days beginning on May 22, 2010, Lamo testified, he and the man identified as Manning instant-messaged about the release of the documents and videos.Lamo has said he reported Manning to authorities.Army Criminal Investigation Command Special Agent David Shaver has testified that the chat logs that Lamo provided to the Army largely matched chat logs found on Manning's computer in Iraq.Solitary confinementManning was arrested in Iraq on May 27, 2010, and then transferred to Kuwait before being returned to the United States two months later.He was formally charged on July 6, 2010, with violations of the Uniform Code of Military Justice and the Espionage Act. In March 2011, the military revised the alleged violations and filed 22 charges against Manning.He was held for months by the military in solitary confinement , a move that drew sharp criticism from Amnesty International and other human rights groups.It even cost P.J. Crowley his job as State Department spokesman after he said in March 2011 that the conditions of the soldier's detention were "ridiculous and counterproductive and stupid."Crowley resigned just days later amid reports that the Obama administration was furious over his suggestion that Manning was being treated badly.President Barack Obama publicly defended the conditions of the soldier's detention, telling reporters that he had been assured by the Pentagon that the conditions were appropriate and met basic standards.Even so, the outcry grew, with academics, medical professionals and others weighing in as Manning's attorney filed motions to move the soldier from the Marine Corps prison at Quantico.After 11 months in solitary confinement, Manning was transferred to Fort Leavenworth . He has since been moved to a jail at Fort Meade.Dueling portraitsDuring closing statements last week, attorneys on both sides pointed to a picture of a smiling Manning.Each had their own take on the man in the cross-dressing image that was taken in 2010 while he was on leave -- just weeks before his arrest."This is a gleeful, grinning Pfc. Manning," who had little regard for his allegiance to the United States, Fein told the court.But Coombs told the judge that picture showed a situation in which Manning could "be himself."The only question now is what portrait of Manning the judge will offer with a verdict.