Story highlights 1 flight attendant was trapped by chute, 2 were ejected, NTSB chief says"Flying pilot" was training to fly a Boeing 777, adds Deborah HersmanSitting next to him was a man who was an "instructor pilot" for first time, she addsThe plane's main landing gear hit a seawall at the airport, followed by its tailThe pilot at the helm of Asiana Airlines Flight 214 was training to fly a Boeing 777 and was sitting next to a man in his first trip as an instructor pilot when their plane's main landing gear hit a seawall around San Francisco's airport, a U.S. official said Tuesday.Deborah Hersman, the head of the National Transportation Safety Board, revealed these and other details during a news conference that included information about the pilots and their flying experience, based on the interviews they've conducted with investigators.Having finished classroom and simulator training, the "flying pilot" -- as Hersman referred to him -- was in the piloting portion of his training to fly a Boeing 777 at the time of Saturday's crash.He had flown 10 legs and had about 35 hours of flying time with the 777, which put him about halfway through the training required by Asiana of 20 legs and 60 flight hours, when the plane went down, Hersman said.Sitting beside him during Saturday's flight from Seoul to San Francisco was the instructor pilot. The trip across the Pacific was the first time he had been an instructor pilot and the first time he'd traveled with the flying pilot, according to Hersman.Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – In this handout photo released by the National Transportation Safety Board, Asiana Airlines Flight 214 sits just off the runway at San Francisco International Airport on Sunday, July 7. The Boeing 777 coming from Seoul, South Korea, crashed on landing on Saturday, July 6. Three passengers, all girls, died as a result of the first notable U.S. air crash in four years. Hide Caption 1 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A photo showing the damaged interior of the aircraft was released by the NTSB on July 7. The flight carrying 291 passengers and 16 crew took off from Shanghai and stopped in Seoul before heading to San Francisco. Hide Caption 2 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An investigator photographs part of the landing gear at the crash site in a handout released on July 7. Investigators believe that the pilots were flying too slow and too low as they neared the airport on July 6. Hide Caption 3 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An investigator inspects the broken-off tail of the plane in a handout photo released July 7. The crash killed two people, injured 182 and forced the temporary closure of one of the country's largest airports. Hide Caption 4 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An investigator stands near the tail of the plane in a handout photo released on July 7. The NTSB has ruled out weather as a problem and said that conditions were right for a "visual landing." Hide Caption 5 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Investigators approach the crash in a handout photo released on July 7. Hide Caption 6 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Fire crews attempt to quench the blaze on Saturday, July 6. Hide Caption 7 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Smoke rises from the crash site across the San Francisco Bay on July 6. Hide Caption 8 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Asiana Airlines Flight 214 remains on the runway on July 6. Hide Caption 9 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A plane sits on the runway on July 6 while emergency crews tend to the crash site. Hide Caption 10 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A helicopter flies above the wreckage on July 6 as people observe from across the waters of San Francisco Bay. Hide Caption 11 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Travelers at San Francisco International Airport look at the departures and arrivals board after Asiana Flight 214 crashed on July 6. The airport, located 12 miles south of downtown San Francisco, is California's second busiest, behind Los Angeles International. Hide Caption 12 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Kevin Cheng talks on his phone as he waits in the terminal after Asiana Airlines Flight 214 crash-landed on July 6. He said he was supposed to pick up students who were on board the flight from Seoul. Hide Caption 13 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Passengers wait for the British Airways counter to reopen at San Francisco International Airport on July 6. Hide Caption 14 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Police guard the Reflection Room at the San Francisco airport's international terminal, where passengers from Asiana Airlines Flight 214 were reportedly gathering after the crash landing on July 6. Hide Caption 15 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People are escorted from the Reflection Room at the San Francisco International Airport on July 6. Hide Caption 16 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Traffic backs up on U.S. Route 101 South in San Francisco on July 6. The Bay Area airport was closed to incoming and departing traffic after the crash, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. Hide Caption 17 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People look over the wreckage across a cove in San Francisco Bay on July 6. Hide Caption 18 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Deborah Hersman, chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board, speaks to the press at Reagan National Airport in Arlington, Virginia, before departing for San Francisco with an NTSB crew on July 6 to investigate the crash site. Hide Caption 19 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The San Francisco Giants observe a moment of silence for those killed and hurt in the crash before their baseball game on July 6 against the Los Angeles Dodgers at AT&T Park in San Francisco. Hide Caption 20 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Crews comb the end of a San Francisco airport runway following the crash landing on July 6. Hide Caption 21 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People in Seoul watch a news program reporting about the crash landing on July 6 in San Francisco. Asiana Airlines Flight 214 took off from Seoul earlier Saturday. Hide Caption 22 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The plane crashed on July 6 around 11:30 a.m. (2:30 p.m. ET). Hide Caption 23 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People walk past the wreckage of the plane's tail on July 6. Hide Caption 24 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The burned-out plane remains on the runway on July 6. Passengers and crew members escaped down the emergency inflatable slides. Hide Caption 25 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Rescue workers tend to the crash site on July 6. Hide Caption 26 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Debris litters the runway on July 6. Hide Caption 27 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Airport shuttles arrive on the scene after the crash landing. Hide Caption 28 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Wreckage from the Boeing 777 lies on the tarmac on July 6. Hide Caption 29 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Crews surround the remains of the plane on July 6. Hide Caption 30 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Investigators pass the detached tail and landing gear of Asiana Airlines Flight 214 on July 6. Hide Caption 31 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An aerial view shows the site of the crash landing between the runways on July 6. Hide Caption 32 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Smoke rises from the crash site on July 6 at the airport in San Francisco. Hide Caption 33 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Fire crews work at the crash site at San Francisco International Airport on July 6. Hide Caption 34 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The Boeing 777 lies burned on the runway after it crashed landed on July 6. Hide Caption 35 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An aerial photo of the scene on July 6 shows the extent of the plane's damage. Hide Caption 36 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The burned-out plane sits surrounded by emergency vehicles on July 6. Hide Caption 37 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – CNN iReporter Amanda Painter took this photo while waiting at the San Francisco airport on July 6. The entire airport has shut down and flights diverted to other airports. Hide Caption 38 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – iReporter Val Vaden captured this photo while waiting in a departure lounge at the San Francisco airport on July 6. Val observed the billowing smoke and emergency responders' rush in. Hide Caption 39 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – iReporter Sven Duenwald was at home on July 6 when he saw smoke rising into the air near the San Francisco International Airport. Hide Caption 40 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – iReporter Timothy Clark was standing on the eighth floor of the Embassy Suites Airport Hotel when he heard a loud crashing sound from outside. "My daughter told me she heard a plane crash. I used my camera to get a clearer view and I could see a dust cloud. Then people running from the plane, then flames," he said. Hide Caption 41 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A photo provided to CNN by Eunice Bird Rah -- and shot by her father, who was a passenger on the plane -- shows flames and smoke bursting out of many of the aircraft's windows. Hide Caption 42 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – David Eun, a passenger on Asiana Airlines Flight 214, posted this image to Path.com along with the message, "I just crash landed at SFO. Tail ripped off. Most everyone seems fine, I'm ok. Surreal..." It was one of the first photographs taken after the crash. Hide Caption 43 of 43JUST WATCHED Crash of Asiana Flight 214 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Crash of Asiana Flight 214 02:50JUST WATCHED 'Sully' Sullenberger on crash landing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Sully' Sullenberger on crash landing 05:57JUST WATCHED Young plane crash survivors speak Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Young plane crash survivors speak 02:26That seemingly uneventful, more than 10-hour flight ended in a few chaotic, panicked minutes of fury, after which two people were dead and 182 others were transported to local hospitals."Sections of the cabin ... are found very early in the debris field," said Hersman, who had walked a few hundred feet from the seawall where the plane's landing gear and then tail first slammed into the seawall to where it mercifully came to a rest. "You can see aircraft parts, gallery materials, newspapers, magazines and flooring."According to the pilots' accounts, the tensions started before the plane touched ground.The three pilots in the cockpit -- another was in the cabin -- told investigators they set the "auto throttle" speed to 137 knots (157 mph), which is the speed it should have been going. Akin to cruise control, auto throttles are used to maintain a plane's speed.At 200 feet above ground, the instructor pilot said he noted precision approach path indicator lights indicated the giant jet was too low.It was then "he recognized that the auto throttles were not maintaining speed, and he established a go-around attitude," said the NTSB chief. "He went to push the throttles forward, but he stated that the other pilot had already (done so)."Hersman cautioned anyone from jumping to conclusions as to whether a mechanical or pilot error is to blame for the crash. She also spoke specifically about the auto throttles, saying investigators were delving into how they were working and how they were used.But Hersman also stated: "The crew is required to maintain a safe aircraft ... One of the very critical things that needs to be monitored on an approach to landing is speed. So we need to understand what was going on in the cockpit, and also what was going on in the aircraft."2 dead, 182 injured -- including 2 ejected flight attendantsWhen it departed South Korea, Flight 214 had 307 passengers and crew aboard.Despite the scale of the wreckage -- a hole burned through much of the cabin's roof and the aircraft's back half lopped off -- 123 walked away.Others weren't so lucky, most of all the two Chinese teenagers who died in the crash.Those working on the flight were among the injured. The third pilot in the cockpit cracked a rib. One flight attendant was temporarily trapped by an evacuation chute that opened inside the plane.JUST WATCHED How Asiana Flight 214 landed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Asiana Flight 214 landed 04:00JUST WATCHED Asiana flight attendants hailed as heroes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Asiana flight attendants hailed as heroes 01:59JUST WATCHED China mourns air crash victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China mourns air crash victims 01:54JUST WATCHED Asiana crash: Rescuing the survivors Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Asiana crash: Rescuing the survivors 02:45Two other flight attendants were not in their seats at the rear of the aircraft when the plane finally ground to a halt, because they were ejected as the aircraft broke up."They were found down the runway and off to the side of the runway," Hersman said.Many of those hospitalized have been released. At San Francisco General Hospital, for instance, 50 of the 62 patients are now free to go home.But others still require care.Four adults and one child in critical condition are still at San Francisco General suffering from internal bleeding, fractures and spinal cord, abdominal and traumatic brain injuries, according to the hospital.Crew recall plane being too high, then too lowThe "flying pilot" and "instructor pilot" who were in the front seat of the cockpit were not among the injured, according to Hersman.Asiana hired the flying pilot in 1994, after which he reported amassing nearly 10,000 hours of total flight time. That experience included time piloting 737, 747 and A-320 aircraft, and he was a ground school and simulator instructor for the latter model.The instructor pilot, a South Korean air force veteran with about 13,000 hours of flight experience, recalled Flight 214 being "slightly high when they passed 4,000 feet (and) they set vertical speed mode at about 1,500 feet per minute," explained Hersman.But they ended up coming in low. The third pilot in the cockpit told investigators that, with "the nose ... pitched up, ... he could not see the runway," said the NTSB chief.In the last few hundred feet before touchdown, the crew was making both lateral and vertical adjustments -- meaning they were both trying to move sideways to get toward the runway and adjust their height.When the aircraft hit, it spun 360 degrees. An oil tank ruptured and leaked fuel onto the plane's right engine, starting a fire.Eventually, evacuation chutes deployed, and at least seven of the aircraft's eight doors were opened. (An eighth was found on the ground, Hersman explained.)Very soon after the plane stopped, tending to the wounded and the investigation began.That probe will continue for months, though authorities have released significant details so far. So much information, in fact, the Air Line Pilots Association, for a second straight day on Tuesday, criticized what it called the "NTSB's release of incomplete, out-of-context information" that "has fueled rampant speculation about the cause of the accident."The union further questioned whether some tools were available to the crew, claiming, for instance, that the "Instrument Landing System, a critical aid to pilots, (was) out of service.""Without the full body of facts surrounding a catastrophic event, partial or incomplete information can lead to erroneous conclusions and, in turn, skew the perception of individuals' behavior," the pilots union said in its Tuesday statement. "This could then lead to misguided assessments of the crew's intentions and actions."Hersman disputed the union's claims earlier Tuesday on CNN, saying the agency believes that transparent release of information is crucial."We believe that it is always better to put out the correct information and factual information so that bad information is not able to propagate," she said.Aviation experts say that air crashes often involve several factors, and the San Francisco tragedy appears to be following form. Experience, training, crew actions, airport navigation, and now the possible role of a mechanical system are all in the mix. The NTSB is not expected to render a decision on probable cause for months.During her news conference later Tuesday, Hersman stressed that "there's still a lot of work to be done.""We will not determine probable cause while we are here on scene," she said, adding there's a lot of information to collect and analyze. "...I would really encourage all of you to be very cautious about speculating on the cause of the crash."