Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – A deadly wildfire leaves behind little but a burned-out car and the remains of a house in a Yarnell, Arizona, neighborhood on Wednesday, July 3. The fire started a week ago near Yarnell, apparently because of lightning strikes. Nineteen firefighters were killed Sunday, June 30, battling the blaze northwest of Phoenix. Hide Caption 1 of 15Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – An aerial overview shows the devastation in Yarnell on July 3. Crews have begun making progress on the wildfire, which reportedly was 80% contained by Thursday night, July 4. Hide Caption 2 of 15Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Smoke from the Yarnell Hill Fire is visible from a distance on a road to Yarnell on Monday, July 1. Hide Caption 3 of 15Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Local firefighters embrace July 1 at a Prescott, Arizona, memorial service for the 19 firefighters killed in the Yarnell Hill Fire, northwest of Phoenix. Hide Caption 4 of 15Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – A couple embraces during the Prescott memorial service for the fallen fighters on July 1. The elite team members' deaths on Sunday, June 30, marked the deadliest day for firefighters since the 9/11 attacks. Hide Caption 5 of 15Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Members of the community give a standing ovation as local firefighters arrive at the July 1 memorial service at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott. Hide Caption 6 of 15Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Toby Schultz lays flowers on July 1 at the fence of the fire station in Prescott, Arizona, the home base of 19 firefighters who died in the Yarnell Hill Fire. Hide Caption 7 of 15Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Flowers hang on the fence outside the Granite Mountain Hot Shot Crew fire station on July 1. Hide Caption 8 of 15Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Homes burn on Sunday, June 30, in Glenn Ilah, Arizona, near Yarnell. Hide Caption 9 of 15Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – A home burns in Yarnell, Arizona, on Sunday, June 30. Hide Caption 10 of 15Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Prescott, Arizona, Fire Chief Dan Fraijo gives a news conference in Prescott confirming that 19 firefighters died while fighting the Yarnell Hill Fire on June 30. Hide Caption 11 of 15Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – A wildfire destroys homes in the Glenn Ilah area near Yarnell on June 30. Hide Caption 12 of 15Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – A wildfire burns homes near Yarnell on June 30. Hide Caption 13 of 15Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Tanker 910 makes a retardant drop on the Yarnell Hill Fire to help protect the Double Bar A Ranch near Peeples Valley on June 30. Hide Caption 14 of 15