Here's a look at key developments in the crash landing of an Asiana Airlines Boeing 777 in San Francisco on Saturday. The crash killed two people and injured more than 180 others.JUST WATCHED Video shows plane's moment of impact Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video shows plane's moment of impact 01:37JUST WATCHED Surviving a crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Surviving a crash 04:09JUST WATCHED Flight 214's communications revealed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Flight 214's communications revealed 01:43NEW DEVELOPMENTS-- Three of four runways at San Francisco International Airport were back in service Sunday, said John Martin, airport director.-- The cockpit voice recorder reveal the pilots called to initiate a "go-around" at another landing 1.5 second before impact, NTSB Chairwoman Deborah Hersman told reporters Sunday.-- "There is no discussion of any aircraft anomalies or concerns with the approach," said Hersman. A call from a crew member to increase speed was made approximately seven seconds before impact, she said.-- Four seconds prior to impact, crew members were alerted to the fact that they were approaching a stall, Hersman said.-- The target speed for the approach of Asiana Flight 214 was 137 knots, and the crew can be heard on the cockpit voice recorder acknowledging the speed, she said. "The speed was significantly below 137 knots, and we are not talking about a few knots."PREVIOUSLY REPORTED DEVELOPMENTSFLIGHT PATH-- The flight originated in Shanghai, China.-- The plane was traveling from Incheon International Airport in Seoul, South Korea, to San Francisco -- a 10-hour direct flight.OCCUPANTS-- On board were 291 passengers and 16 flight crew members.-- All 307 have been accounted for.--The 291 passengers included 61 Americans, 77 South Koreans, 141 Chinese and one Japanese, the airline said.PILOTS-- Four pilots alternating in shifts operated the plane, Asiana Airlines said.-- The pilot flying the plane at the time of the crash was a veteran who had been flying for Asiana since 1996.FATALITIES-- Two 16-year-old girls who were killed were identified as Ye Mengyuan and Wang Linjia, both Chinese nationals, Asiana Airlines said Sunday.-- The two fatalities were found outside the plane. San Francisco Fire Chief Joanne Hayes-White said it was her understanding that they were found on the runway.INJURIES-- Doctors have seen a wide range of injuries, including "large amounts of abdominal injuries, a huge amount of spine fractures, some of which include paralysis and head trauma," said Dr. Margaret Knudson, chief of surgery at San Francisco General Hospital. Doctors have also treated "patients who had severe road rash, suggesting that they were dragged," she said.-- Patients who are awake at the hospital have all reported that they were sitting at the back of the plane, Knudson said.-- A total of 182 were taken to hospitals, some with severe injuries, others for a checkup. The remaining 123 people on the plane exited the airport through customs, Hayes-White said.-- Hayes-White said that when crews arrived, "some of the passengers (were) coming out of the water. But the plane was certainly not in the water.""There was a fire on the plane, so the assumption might be that they went near the water's edge, which is very shallow to maybe douse themselves with water," she said.-- Among the survivors are 26 Chinese middle school students on a summer camp trip, the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco said.-- A total of 225 first responders -- including firefighters, paramedics and EMTs -- rushed to the airport after the crash, Hayes-White said. "What we saw yesterday, most people would never see in their career," she said.DAMAGE-- The internal damage to the plane that crashed Saturday in San Francisco is "really striking," and officials are thankful there weren't more deaths, National Transportation Safety Board Chairman Hersman told CNN's "State of the Union" on Sunday.-- Passengers described the cabin interior as heavily damaged with overhead bins dropping, and at least one life raft/escape slide inflating inside the aircraft, trapping a flight attendant, who was freed by passengers.-- "It was nothing short of a miracle that we had literally 123 people walk away from this," Hayes-White told reporters on Sunday.CAUSEJUST WATCHED 'He saw her leg hanging mid air' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'He saw her leg hanging mid air' 00:58JUST WATCHED Passengers recount moment of crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Passengers recount moment of crash 03:38JUST WATCHED Passengers describe harrowing crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Passengers describe harrowing crash 01:43-- The plane was a Boeing 777-200 that was purchased in March 2006.-- "In my knowledge, there wasn't any engine failure," Asiana CEO Yoon Young-doo said. But, he said, he could not say whether the wheels or landing gear was functioning normally.-- While the exact cause of the crash will take months to determine, Choi Jeong-ho of the South Korean transport ministry said "the tail of the Asiana flight hit the runway and the aircraft veered to the left out of the runway."-- There are no signs of terrorism related to the crash, a national security official told CNN.-- A National Transportation Safety Board team will investigate. The team will include people focused on operations, human performance, survival factors, airport operations, and aircraft systems, structure and power."We have not determined what the focus of this investigation is yet. ... Everything is on the table at this point," Hersman said.-- South Korean aviation investigators and Asiana Airlines officials will also help in the investigation.-- The flight recorders have been recovered and were sent to Washington, where they were being analyzed at the NTSB's lab, the agency said Sunday.WEATHER-- There were a few clouds in the sky around the time of the crash, and temperatures were about 65 degrees. Winds were about 8 miles per hour.ACCIDENT HISTORY-- Asiana has had other two fatal crashes and several close calls.-- In July 2011, a cargo plane slammed into the East China Sea, killing the only two people on board.-- In 1993, an Asiana Airlines Boeing 737 went down in poor weather near South Korea's Mokpo Airport, killing 68 of the 116 people on board.AIRLINE RESPONSE-- "I bow my head and sincerely apologize for causing concern to the passengers, families and our people," said Yoon, the airline's CEO.