Story highlights Victims visit crash site at SFO, following relatives of 2 Chinese teens killedNTSB chief: The pilots made numerous adjustments in flight's last few minutesAutomation is useful, but pilots must still monitor what's happening, she addsCockpit crew didn't want to evacuate plane immediately after crash landingSurvivors have recalled the harrowing few minutes after Asiana Airlines Flight 214's landing gear slammed into a seawall around San Francisco's airport, setting off a chain of events including a fire, the ejection of flight attendants and a frenzied evacuation.But what about the minutes before the Boeing 777 crashed?A day after relaying pilots' accounts to investigators, National Transportation Safety Board Chairman Deborah Hersman provided more details Wednesday on what happened in the sky.One focus has been whether "automatic" controls in the cockpit were working. Even if they weren't, questions have been raised about whether the pilots recognized that something was wrong quickly enough and did the right thing to fix it.Moments before touching down, the pilots said they were making horizontal changes to adjust their path and vertical adjustments to affect their altitude. Hersman has said they didn't notice they were coming into too low until they were about 200 feet above the airport. To put that in perspective, the independent Flight Safety Foundation states that most planes approaching an airport "require... an immediate go-around" -- meaning they should not land -- if they're not at the right speed on the right path by the time they're about 1,000 feet up.Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – In this handout photo released by the National Transportation Safety Board, Asiana Airlines Flight 214 sits just off the runway at San Francisco International Airport on Sunday, July 7. The Boeing 777 coming from Seoul, South Korea, crashed on landing on Saturday, July 6. Three passengers, all girls, died as a result of the first notable U.S. air crash in four years. Hide Caption 1 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A photo showing the damaged interior of the aircraft was released by the NTSB on July 7. The flight carrying 291 passengers and 16 crew took off from Shanghai and stopped in Seoul before heading to San Francisco. Hide Caption 2 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An investigator photographs part of the landing gear at the crash site in a handout released on July 7. Investigators believe that the pilots were flying too slow and too low as they neared the airport on July 6. Hide Caption 3 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An investigator inspects the broken-off tail of the plane in a handout photo released July 7. The crash killed two people, injured 182 and forced the temporary closure of one of the country's largest airports. Hide Caption 4 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An investigator stands near the tail of the plane in a handout photo released on July 7. The NTSB has ruled out weather as a problem and said that conditions were right for a "visual landing." Hide Caption 5 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Investigators approach the crash in a handout photo released on July 7. Hide Caption 6 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Fire crews attempt to quench the blaze on Saturday, July 6. Hide Caption 7 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Smoke rises from the crash site across the San Francisco Bay on July 6. Hide Caption 8 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Asiana Airlines Flight 214 remains on the runway on July 6. Hide Caption 9 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A plane sits on the runway on July 6 while emergency crews tend to the crash site. Hide Caption 10 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A helicopter flies above the wreckage on July 6 as people observe from across the waters of San Francisco Bay. Hide Caption 11 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Travelers at San Francisco International Airport look at the departures and arrivals board after Asiana Flight 214 crashed on July 6. The airport, located 12 miles south of downtown San Francisco, is California's second busiest, behind Los Angeles International. Hide Caption 12 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Kevin Cheng talks on his phone as he waits in the terminal after Asiana Airlines Flight 214 crash-landed on July 6. He said he was supposed to pick up students who were on board the flight from Seoul. Hide Caption 13 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Passengers wait for the British Airways counter to reopen at San Francisco International Airport on July 6. Hide Caption 14 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Police guard the Reflection Room at the San Francisco airport's international terminal, where passengers from Asiana Airlines Flight 214 were reportedly gathering after the crash landing on July 6. Hide Caption 15 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People are escorted from the Reflection Room at the San Francisco International Airport on July 6. Hide Caption 16 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Traffic backs up on U.S. Route 101 South in San Francisco on July 6. The Bay Area airport was closed to incoming and departing traffic after the crash, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. Hide Caption 17 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People look over the wreckage across a cove in San Francisco Bay on July 6. Hide Caption 18 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Deborah Hersman, chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board, speaks to the press at Reagan National Airport in Arlington, Virginia, before departing for San Francisco with an NTSB crew on July 6 to investigate the crash site. Hide Caption 19 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The San Francisco Giants observe a moment of silence for those killed and hurt in the crash before their baseball game on July 6 against the Los Angeles Dodgers at AT&T Park in San Francisco. Hide Caption 20 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Crews comb the end of a San Francisco airport runway following the crash landing on July 6. Hide Caption 21 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People in Seoul watch a news program reporting about the crash landing on July 6 in San Francisco. Asiana Airlines Flight 214 took off from Seoul earlier Saturday. Hide Caption 22 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The plane crashed on July 6 around 11:30 a.m. (2:30 p.m. ET). Hide Caption 23 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People walk past the wreckage of the plane's tail on July 6. Hide Caption 24 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The burned-out plane remains on the runway on July 6. Passengers and crew members escaped down the emergency inflatable slides. Hide Caption 25 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Rescue workers tend to the crash site on July 6. Hide Caption 26 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Debris litters the runway on July 6. Hide Caption 27 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Airport shuttles arrive on the scene after the crash landing. Hide Caption 28 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Wreckage from the Boeing 777 lies on the tarmac on July 6. Hide Caption 29 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Crews surround the remains of the plane on July 6. Hide Caption 30 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Investigators pass the detached tail and landing gear of Asiana Airlines Flight 214 on July 6. Hide Caption 31 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An aerial view shows the site of the crash landing between the runways on July 6. Hide Caption 32 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Smoke rises from the crash site on July 6 at the airport in San Francisco. Hide Caption 33 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Fire crews work at the crash site at San Francisco International Airport on July 6. Hide Caption 34 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The Boeing 777 lies burned on the runway after it crashed landed on July 6. Hide Caption 35 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An aerial photo of the scene on July 6 shows the extent of the plane's damage. Hide Caption 36 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The burned-out plane sits surrounded by emergency vehicles on July 6. Hide Caption 37 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – CNN iReporter Amanda Painter took this photo while waiting at the San Francisco airport on July 6. The entire airport has shut down and flights diverted to other airports. Hide Caption 38 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – iReporter Val Vaden captured this photo while waiting in a departure lounge at the San Francisco airport on July 6. Val observed the billowing smoke and emergency responders' rush in. Hide Caption 39 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – iReporter Sven Duenwald was at home on July 6 when he saw smoke rising into the air near the San Francisco International Airport. Hide Caption 40 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – iReporter Timothy Clark was standing on the eighth floor of the Embassy Suites Airport Hotel when he heard a loud crashing sound from outside. "My daughter told me she heard a plane crash. I used my camera to get a clearer view and I could see a dust cloud. Then people running from the plane, then flames," he said. Hide Caption 41 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A photo provided to CNN by Eunice Bird Rah -- and shot by her father, who was a passenger on the plane -- shows flames and smoke bursting out of many of the aircraft's windows. Hide Caption 42 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – David Eun, a passenger on Asiana Airlines Flight 214, posted this image to Path.com along with the message, "I just crash landed at SFO. Tail ripped off. Most everyone seems fine, I'm ok. Surreal..." It was one of the first photographs taken after the crash. Hide Caption 43 of 43JUST WATCHED 'We're trying to keep her alive' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'We're trying to keep her alive' 03:10JUST WATCHED A closer look at plane's evacuation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A closer look at plane's evacuation 02:29JUST WATCHED What caused Asiana Flight 214 to crash? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What caused Asiana Flight 214 to crash? 03:15In Flight 214's last 2½ minutes, the pilots were making adjustments, including, apparently, adjusting some automatic functions that control things like airspeed and other key factors. It's not clear how all those functions were working, but the pilots did say the "auto throttle" was switched on but didn't regulate the speed as they'd expected."We need to understand what those modes were: If they were commanded by the pilots, if they were activated inadvertently, and if the pilots knew what they were doing," the NTSB chairman said, referring to evidence of "multiple autopilot modes and ... auto throttle modes."Such tools can help an airliner run more efficiently and effectively. But they don't mean that pilots don't have a responsibility, Hersman said, noting that someone in the cockpit is typically charged with monitoring what's going on."When you think about automation, it can do a lot, it can assist the pilots," Hersman told reporters. "But there are two pilots in the cockpit for a reason."The final minutes in the airThe man at the helm -- whom Hersman called the "flying pilot" and who was halfway through training on flying a 777 -- spent the day before the fatal flight at home and got about eight hours of sleep. When he reported to work, he told investigators, he arrived at the airport a little early, knowing he'd be working with his "instructor pilot" -- who would be seated next to him on the voyage across the Pacific -- for the first time, Hersman said.The instructor pilot was also relatively well-rested, having had a day off followed by eight hours of sleep.Together, they were in the front seats of Flight 214 for about 4 hours, 15 minutes before being relieved for about 5 hours by a relief crew on board. Then the two returned to their seats for the trip's last hour and a half, according to the NTSB chief.At around 4,000 feet above sea level, the pilots recognized they were coming in too high and made some adjustments, Hersman said. At 11:26 a.m. Saturday, when they were about a mile and a half away, they were given clearance to land.The three men in the cockpit told investigators the auto pilot was off but the auto throttle -- a device that automatically regulates speed -- was switched on and set to 137 knots (157 mph).After noticing the plane was too slow and too low, around 200 feet, the flying pilot pushed the throttle forward. Also, one of the pilots said that at some point, his sight was affected by a flash of light, something the NTSB chairman said authorities can't yet explain.The first minutes on the groundJUST WATCHED Crash survivors thankful to be alive Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Crash survivors thankful to be alive 05:18JUST WATCHED Asiana crew member cries during photo op Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Asiana crew member cries during photo op 00:54JUST WATCHED New details emerge in plane crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New details emerge in plane crash 04:03JUST WATCHED How Asiana Flight 214 landed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Asiana Flight 214 landed 04:00While authorities have not laid blame or cited a cause, it appears the pilots' efforts in those last few minutes were too little, too late to avert a crash.The aircraft's main landing gear slammed into a seawall between the airport and San Francisco Bay. The tail pounded down soon after that.The aircraft spun 360 degrees, shedding parts, flooring, magazines and more that would be later found strewn about the runway. Three flight attendants who were ejected from the plane were found on the runway too, Hersman said Wednesday. (None of the passengers' seats were ejected.)Eventually, the 777 screeched to a stop. That's when the lead flight attendant approached the cockpit and asked if they should evacuate. The flight crew, which was then talking with the air traffic control tower, said no.An announcement over the aircraft's speakers told passengers to stay in their seats.Then, one flight attendant noticed flames outside, around row 10, and told another attendant to relay the information to the cockpit. At that point, the evacuation process began.This whole process -- from the plane stopping to the evacuation order -- took about 90 seconds, Hersman said. That's the amount of time, she pointed out, in which U.S. regulators say an airliner should be entirely cleared of passengers and crew.About two minutes after the crash, the NTSB chief added, first responders were on site. About a minute later, there were firefighters equipped to douse any flames.'Working as hard as possible ... to recover'But no one could save Ye Mengyuan and Wang Linjia, the 16-year-old girls from China who died due to the crash.On Wednesday, their relatives took a bus to the crash site at San Francisco International Airport, a source close to Asiana Airlines told CNN. They wanted to see where their children had died. Other buses arrived later Wednesday night bringing crash victims to the same locale, allowing them to see the destruction up close once again.Of the 307 passengers and crew aboard the Seoul-to-San Francisco flight, 305 survived. Out of those, 123 were uninjured, while the rest went to Bay Area hospitals. Some of them were still there Wednesday, including a handful in critical condition.Even those who aren't in hospitals are suffering.Six of the jet's 12 flight attendants suffered injuries serious enough that they haven't been interviewed yet by investigators, Hersman said Wednesday.The six others, meanwhile, appeared briefly in front of reporters Wednesday. One of them was in a wheelchair. (Hersman said that one of the flight attendants had broken her leg but was no longer hospitalized and had talked to the investigators.) Some wept.The flight's cabin manager, Yoon Hye Lee, said she and the rest of the crew are "working as hard as possible in order to recover."She added, "I hope for all the families who have suffered losses from this accident to recover as quickly as possible, as they are in my prayers."