Story highlights Official: Filner has been served a subpoena for a deposition August 9San Diego mayor to start "intensive" behavior counseling next monthSeven women have said they were targets of the mayor's advancesThey include four who came forward Thursday, KPBS-TV reportsA day after fellow Democrats called for his resignation, San Diego Mayor Bob Filner announced Friday that he will take a two-week hiatus for "intensive counseling" in response to a tide of sexual harassment allegations."Beginning on August 5, I will be entering a behavior counseling clinic for two weeks of intensive therapy to begin the process of addressing my behavior," Filner told reporters, reading a prepared statement.Saying he had apologized to his staff, the citizens, and the "women I have offended," the mayor said, "It is simply not acceptable to explain away my conduct as the product of the standards of a different generation."Filner said during his two-week "full-time" stay at the clinic, he will be briefed on city matters. San Diego's city charter does not require him to appoint an interim mayor for a temporary absence.Filner said he would return to office on August 19 and "my focus will be on making sure I am doing right by this city by being the best mayor I can be and being the best person I must be."He said he will take part in regular counseling after his clinic stay.It's unlikely that his decision will quell the mounting calls for his resignation.One of his accusers, Morgan Rose, told CNN's Poppy Harlow that his announcement shows that "he's addicted to power and control."JUST WATCHED Woman: Mayor Filner tried to kiss me Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman: Mayor Filner tried to kiss me 01:05JUST WATCHED More women accuse San Diego mayor Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH More women accuse San Diego mayor 01:38JUST WATCHED Embattled mayor sabotaged by mic Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Embattled mayor sabotaged by mic 01:17Photos: Top 10 political comebacks Photos: Top 10 political comebacks David Vitter – Sen. David Vitter admitted his guilt in the D.C. Madam scandal in 2007. His phone number had been published in 2009 in a list of phone records from a prostitution ring Deborah Jeane Palfrey, also known as the "D.C. Madam." Three years later he was reelected to the Senate. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Top 10 political comebacks Anthony Weiner – Former Rep. Anthony Weiner, D-New York, resigned from Congress in 2011 after being embroiled for weeks in a sex scandal linked to his lewd online exchanges with women. Weiner announced in May that he was running for mayor of New York City, saying in a video announcing his campaign, "I hope I get a second chance to work for you." Weiner's comeback bid suffered a potential setback Tuesday, July 23, when he acknowledged more sexually tinged exchanges with an unnamed woman. "What I did was wrong," Weiner said in a statement about the newly emerged communications. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Top 10 political comebacks Eliot Spitzer – Former New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer, who resigned in 2008 after it was revealed that he had spent thousands of dollars on prostitutes, says he plans to run for New York City's comptroller. "I accepted responsibly for what I did," Spitzer said. "I spent five years of working, doing useful things, and I hope the public will offer me an opportunity." Despite taking knocks from the press, the voters and, in some cases, the law, other politicians have pursued redemption in their public image or, in some cases, a return to office. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Top 10 political comebacks Mark Sanford – Former Gov. Mark Sanford endured heavy criticism and being the butt of jokes until his term ended after he admitted in 2009 that his six-day hiking trip on the Appalachian Trail was actually a cover for a trip to Argentina to visit his mistress. In May, Sanford won election against Democrat Elizabeth Colbert Busch for an open seat in the U.S. House, despite being heavily outspent by Democrats and without the backing of national Republicans. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Top 10 political comebacks Bill Clinton – Bill Clinton had a scandalous presidency, most famously having an affair with an intern that prompted his impeachment. Since, he has become an important figure in worldwide humanitarian efforts and informal adviser to President Obama. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Top 10 political comebacks Newt Gingrich – Former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich left his position in disgrace after the Clinton impeachment proceedings in 1998. It was also later revealed that he was having an affair with a Congressional staffer, now his current wife Callista. Gingrich had an unsuccessful bid for the Republican presidential nomination in 2012 and is now seen as an elder party statesman, regularly appearing in the media on conservative issues. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Top 10 political comebacks Gary Hart – Before becoming an adviser for Homeland Security, retired Sen. Gary Hart was the front-runner of the 1988 Democratic primaries for president until images of him with a model surfaced, ending his campaign. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Top 10 political comebacks Dennis Kucinich – Former Rep. Dennis Kucinich, D-Ohio, has had many ups and downs in his political career, first becoming mayor of Cleveland, at the age of 31, and then losing a bid for reelection. Kucinich was later elected to the Senate and then the U.S. House but lost when he ran for president in 2004 and again in 2008. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Top 10 political comebacks Marion Barry – Marion Barry is sworn in as the mayor of Washington with his wife, Cora Masters Barry, at his side, in 1995. Four years earlier, he was forced from the mayor's office, and later imprisoned, for being caught on videotape smoking crack. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Top 10 political comebacks Richard Nixon – Richard Nixon resigned in disgrace in 1974 after the Washington Post broke the story on his role in the Watergate burglary. But before being elected president, Nixon was Dwight Eisenhower's vice president. He lost his first presidential election to John F. Kennedy in 1960, and then lost the governor's race in California in 1962. However, in 1968, he got the GOP nomination and defeated Hubert Humphrey in the general election to become president. Hide Caption 10 of 10"I think this is a man who demonstrates an extreme narcissistic profile," Rose said after Filner's announcement. "He is doing this because he can keep the control and power. He is not giving that up for us. If he truly was repentant he would. He would realize how hurtful he was to us."Seven women -- including Rose -- have publicly accused Filner of unwanted groping, kissing or other inappropriate contact. Many of the accusations allegedly took place during his five terms in Congress, before he was elected mayor last year.In the wake of the accusations, Filner's chief of staff resigned, the Democratic Party of San Diego voted to call for his resignation -- even his fiancee left his side.Filner, 70, admitted to "inappropriate" behavior this month, saying he has "failed to fully respect the women who work for me and with me, and that at times I have intimidated them."Yet, he has repeatedly said he will not step down from an office he was elected to barely eight months ago."It's very important that I think we continue with my priorities, that's what I was elected to do," Filner said last week. "That's why I'm not resigning."That was before he faced a lawsuit from his former spokeswoman, filed Monday. And it was also before his own Democratic Party in San Diego overwhelmingly voted Thursday in favor of him vacating his office.Here's a breakdown of who's accused the mayor of what, and the impact of those allegations:The accusers• Irene McCormack JacksonJackson filed a lawsuit against Filner on Monday, saying she and other women were subjected to his "crude and disgusting" comments and inappropriate touching. She said she resigned as Filner's communications director in June after deciding that the mayor would not change his behavior."I had to work and do my job in an atmosphere where women were viewed by Mayor Filner as sexual objects or stupid idiots," Jackson said. She said he asked her to work without underwear and made repeated sexual advances toward her."He is not fit to be mayor of our great city. He is not fit to hold any public office. A man who lacks character makes a mockery of his ideas," she said.Jackson said Filner "refused to listen to someone he had known for 35 years, and who told him explicitly, during a senior staff meeting, that his behavior with women was terrible and possibly illegal."Filner "laughed it off," she said. She said Filner challenged her to provide one example of improper behavior; when she brought up his comments about wearing underwear, "he had no comeback," she said.• Laura FinkAfter hearing of Jackson's lawsuit, political consultant Laura Fink came forward with her accusations against Filner on Tuesday, saying the then-congressman patted her "posterior" at a fundraising dinner in 2005 when she working as the deputy manager of Filner's congressional campaign.Fink said she didn't go public with the incident at the time because she was trying to build her political career.The alleged sexual harassment occurred at the fundraiser, where Fink guided Filner from table to table.One guest told Filner that Fink "had worked her tokus off," Fink said."The congressman told me to turn around and patted me on the bum and said, 'Nope, it's still there' and laughed," Fink told CNN.Fink wrote to Filner's chief of staff and demanded that Filner apologize, she said.Filner responded, and "he mumbled an apology" and added something "I just did not understand," Fink said.On Wednesday, Fink told CNN that Filner should resign.• Morgan RoseNonprofit leader Morgan Rose told CNN on Wednesday that she recently told authorities about her experience with Filner after hearing similar accusations against the mayor in recent weeks. She called a hotline set up by the San Diego Sheriff's Department for accusers who are allowed to remain anonymous under California law.Rose said she met Filner in April 2009 when he was a congressman to lobby on behalf of her nonprofit organization that focuses on domestic violence.The two met at a restaurant near Filner's congressional office in Chula Vista, California, she told CNN.At that meeting, she said, Filner allegedly looked her up and down, stared into her eyes and said, "Your eyes have bewitched me," Rose said.Filner allegedly then made a remark along the lines of, according to Rose's paraphrasing, "You'll have to excuse me for what's about to happen. It's your fault," Rose said.Filner then moved to her side of the booth, sat beside her, pinned her to the wall, and put his arm around her, Rose alleged.Rose avoided the advances, and Filner was suddenly interrupted by his ringing cell phone, Rose said. Filner then left the restaurant, she said.Rose spoke of the incident to her closest friends and didn't pursue the matter because she feared her nonprofit might somehow suffer, she told CNN.But when Rose heard of similar accusations against Filner in recent weeks, she called the victims hotline.• Sharon Bernie-ClowardSharon Bernie-Cloward, president of the San Diego Port Tenants Association, relayed her allegations against Filner to KPBS, along with three other accusers. She said when Filner was running for mayor in 2012, he approached her at a political event."He touched me, actually groped me on my backside inappropriately," Bernie-Cloward told KPBS. "I was left there startled and fearful. In fact, I actually had someone walk me to my car that night."• Patti RoscoePatti Roscoe, a prominent businesswoman in San Diego's tourism and hospitality industry, told KPBS that on numerous occasions, Filner "put in me what I guess now is the famous headlock.""I felt fearful, even as well as I knew him, because it was an invasion into my space," Roscoe told the network. "And he would come in and try to kiss me on the lips and I'd have to squirm to get away. And just as recently as a few months ago this happened. I turned and he just slobbered down my chin."And I was so violated and so offended. It's just such a terrible invasion."• Veronica "Ronne" FromanVeronica "Ronne" Froman, a retired Navy rear admiral and San Diego's former chief operating officer, described to KPBS an encounter that she said had with then-Congressman Filner a few years ago at a meeting at his office after everyone had left."He stopped me and he got very close to me. And he ran his finger up my cheek like this and he whispered to me, 'Do you have a man in your life?' " Froman said. "I jumped back. I was very, very startled. And I said, 'Yes, I have a man in my life.'"And he said, 'who?' And I said, 'Linden Blue.' He says, 'Oh, of the Blues Brothers?' And he says, 'Maybe we can get together sometime and have lunch and he can support me for mayor.'"I was really rattled. I got in the car with the two guys I was working with and I told them never to leave me alone in a room with Bob Filner again."• Joyce GattasJoyce Gattas, a dean at San Diego State University, told KPBS that she had several "interactions" with Filner "where he's held me too tight, a kiss on the cheek which is inappropriate, hands on the knee that last too long."Gattas, who helped craft the university's sexual harassment policy, said she has often seen Filner make "sexual comments to others. And I've seen the interactions with others when they cringe. I've experienced his sexual innuendos with me at various events that, again, have left me in that strange feeling of: This is inappropriate, this is unwanted and this shouldn't be happening."The falloutFilner's chief of staff Vince Hall resigned this month via Twitter , citing his position "as a lifelong activist for women's rights and equality."The mayor's fiancee, Bronwyn Ingram called off their engagement, citing his behavior in a statement issued last week, and she has now joined calls for his resignation.On Thursday, Filner's fellow Democrats abandoned him when the San Diego County Democratic Party voted 34-6 urging the mayor to resign."We are not here to determine guilt or innocence," the party said in a statement. "However, in the best interest of the city, the San Diego County Democratic Party has voted to ask Mayor Filner to step down, seek the personal help that he needs, and allow San Diego to move forward."Jackson's lawsuit, filed Monday in state court, names Filner and the city as defendants. San Diego City Attorney Jan Goldsmith said his office will defend the city but not Filner, who he said has hired his own lawyer.Filner has been served a subpoena to submit to a deposition August 9, Deputy City Attorney Paul Cooper said Friday."Testifying under oath is part of due process," Cooper added in a statement. "We expect Mayor Filner to attend absent a court order to the contrary."The ramifications go beyond political: Filner was supposed to be the keynote speaker at a meeting of women veterans next month on the issue of sexual assault in the military.He has since been disinvited.What the mayor has saidAs the allegations of sexual harassment began to mount, Filner responded this month by releasing a video statement on YouTube in which he admitted wrongdoing and vowed to change."I am embarrassed to admit that I have failed to fully respect the women who work for me and with me, and that at times I have intimidated them," he said in the July 11 video statement . "It's a good thing that behavior that would have been tolerated in the past is being called out in this generation for what it is: inappropriate and wrong."Despite his mea culpa, the calls for his resignation began to mount.Last week, Filner issued another statement rejecting those calls, saying that he believes he will be vindicated by "a full presentation of the facts." But he also acknowledged, "I need help," and added, "I'm clearly doing something wrong."Then on Monday, Jackson -- the first of the women leveling the claims -- came forward when she filed suit against him. In response to her lawsuit, Filner issued a statement saying he was "saddened" by the accusations, but "I remain committed to the people of San Diego and the work that needs to be done.""Once due process is allowed to unfold, I am certain there will be a better understanding of this situation," he said, adding, "I humbly ask that through this vicious storm of controversy, people take a moment and temper their rush to judgment."When CNN's Casey Wian approached Filner at a trolley station groundbreaking event on Thursday, he avoided his and other reporters' questions.What San Diego residents thinkA more informal poll of San Diego residents this week outside City Hall mirrored those findings.But one resident, interviewed by CNN iReporter Chris Morrow , explained why he still supports Filner."He's actually really good for this city's population, especially the homeless population out here; I know he definitely cares about them ... I think it'd be a very, very bad move to see that gentleman resign."Another man, who identified himself as homeless, disagreed."I actually voted for Filner ... he was a good man, I like what he's doing for the homeless, 'cause I'm homeless myself. But for something like that to go on, and people actually stepping up, and him admitting to what he had done, I do believe he should resign."