Story highlights Scandal tainted politicians look for redemption at the ballot boxOne-time governor Eliot Spitzer running to control New York's purse stringsFormer Congressman Anthony Weiner wants to be city mayorSpitzer was ousted for using prostitutes; Weiner for sending sexual photosNew Yorkers are sweating-out a steamy summer thinking about sex. A pair of rogue politicians running for re-election and redemption leave them no choice."People have forgiveness in their hearts," said Eliot Spitzer, a former crime-fighting prosecutor and then governor who resigned in 2008 after revelations that he frequented prostitutes.Spitzer, who briefly joined us at CNN as a TV host during his exile from elected politics, began his comeback campaign this week with a surprise decision to run for comptroller of New York City . The job would essentially make him the Big Apple's accountant -- a huge demotion from his days running the entire state.He's sharing the city's summer-of-scandal spotlight with Anthony Weiner, a former Washington lawmaker who resigned from the House of Representatives in 2011 after acknowledging he sent sexually explicit photographs to several women.Photos: Wives who stood by their men Photos: Wives who stood by their men Anthony Weiner and Huma Abedin – With his wife, Huma Abedin, by his side, New York mayoral candidate and former congressman Anthony Weiner confirms on July 23 that some of the sexually explicit online exchanges that were published by a gossip website happened after previous revelations forced him to resign from the U.S. House in 2011. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Wives who stood by their men Eliot and Silda Spitzer – Former New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer, shown here with wife Silda Wall Spitzer, resigned in March 2008 after it was revealed that he had spent thousands of dollars on prostitutes. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Wives who stood by their men David and Wendy Vitter – Louisiana Sen. David Vitter, here with wife Wendy Baldwin Vitter, admitted in July 2007 his involvement in the "D.C. Madam" scandal after his phone number had been published in a list of phone records from a prostitution ring. Three years later he was re-elected to the U.S. Senate. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Wives who stood by their men Larry and Suzanne Thompson Craig – Former Idaho Sen. Larry Craig was arrested in June 2007 in a men's restroom at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport on charges of lewd conduct, but later pled guilty to a misdemeanor charge of disorderly conduct. His wife, Suzanne Thompson, was at his side during the news conference in September 2007 when he announced his intention to resign. He later changed his mind and served out his term. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Wives who stood by their men Jim McGreevy and Dina Matos – Former New Jersey Gov. Jim McGreevey, with his then-wife Dina Matos standing by, told a packed news conference in August 2004: "My truth is that I am a gay American" and that he had engaged in a consensual affair with his homeland security adviser, who had threatened to sue him for sexual harassment. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Wives who stood by their men Bill and Hillary Clinton – Hillary Clinton was with her husband, former President Bill Clinton, in January 1998 when he denied having "sexual relations with that woman, Miss Lewinsky." However, when he later admitted in August 1998 that the relationship with the intern was "not appropriate," she was not with him and later was chilly toward him during a walk to Marine One. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Wives who stood by their men Those who didn't: Elizabeth Edwards – Elizabeth Edwards, the wife of former presidential candidate and ex-North Carolina Sen. John Edwards, was not with him when, in August 2008, he finally admitted to an affair with a campaign worker. Elizabeth Edwards, who was suffering from breast cancer, died in 2010. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Wives who stood by their men Those who didn't: Jenny Sanford – After her husband, former South Carolina Gov. Mark Sanford, admitted to sneaking away to Argentina to be with his mistress in June 2009, Jenny Sanford moved out of the governor's mansion and later divorced him in 2010. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Wives who stood by their men Those who didn't: Darlene Ensign – Former Nevada Sen. John Ensign was embroiled in allegations of an extramarital affair in 2007 and 2008, and his wife, Darlene, who initially stood with him when he announced he would not seek re-election, was not by his side as the drama unfolded. Hit with multiple investigations, Ensign resigned in 2011. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Wives who stood by their men Those who didn't: Maria Shriver – After initially standing by her husband, former California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, through multiple allegations of sexual misconduct before and during his two terms as governor, Maria Shriver filed for divorce in 2011 after the governor admitted fathering a child with their longtime housekeeper. Hide Caption 10 of 10Weiner is running for mayor and would have to work closely with Spitzer if both men win.JUST WATCHED Comic finds material from Weiner Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Comic finds material from Weiner 00:10JUST WATCHED Spitzer collects his first signature Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Spitzer collects his first signature 01:57JUST WATCHED Anthony Weiner winning back New Yorkers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Anthony Weiner winning back New Yorkers 03:24Could they? Both are Democrats -- a party that typically does well in New York -- and would first have to face a September vote for their party's nomination, even before the municipal election in November.Weiner represented a New York district in Congress and ran a credible campaign for mayor of the city back in 2005. Media accounts suggest he spent months planning this year's campaign. Polls make him the frontrunner among DemocratsBy contrast, Spitzer started late and had a rough first week simply trying to collect enough signatures to get a place on the ballot.He also faced a particularly awkward opponent for the comptroller's office: an ex-madam who says she actually supplied Spitzer with women. Kristin Davis has no proof of that allegation but she did spend several months behind bars because of her business.Spitzer has to hope that it's something voters can overlook come September."Ten minutes in politics is 50 years in anything else," said Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic strategist who has worked with Spitzer in the past. "And anything can happen, all times, any time, forever."The prospect of the disgraced duo running 'the city that never sleeps' hasn't escaped the attention of America's comedians.In the words of late night TV host Conan O'Brien, "New York is changing its name to the city that never sleeps with its wife."