Boston (CNN) In a trial full of arresting images, one that flashed across the courtroom screen on Tuesday was a stunner: Tamerlan Tsarnaev, with a full beard and wearing traditional white Muslim robes, flashed a pistol in front of what appeared to be the rallying flag of jihad.Yet another showed him brandishing a gun with a small child in the frame. And, finally, came a photo of an unidentified small boy carrying a rifle.It is not known when or where the photographs were taken.They came to light during the testimony of defense witness Mark Spencer, a digital forensics expert from Arsenal Consultants.Spencer said the images were recovered from an encrypted file called "Document" on Tsarnaev's Samsung laptop after his death.Tamerlan Tsarnaev was shot by police and run over by his brother in the aftermath the deadly bombings at the 2013 Boston MarathonJUST WATCHED How did Tsarnaevs prepare for Boston bombing? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How did Tsarnaevs prepare for Boston bombing? 01:43The defense expert delved into Tamerlan's computer files in much the same way federal prosecutors rooted through his younger brother's Sony laptop earlier in this trial.Tamerlan the heavy, Jahar the pawnDzhokhar "Jahar" Tsarnaev was convicted of 30 counts relating to the bombings and their aftermath; 17 counts, involving the murders of three marathon spectators and an MIT police officer, carry the death penalty as a possible sentence.Defense attorneys are fighting to convince jurors to spare 21-year-old Jahar Tsarnaev from execution and instead sentence him to life in prison without parole. The defense strategy includes shifting the focus of the trial to Tamerlan's radical beliefs and the power he held over his younger brother. They are trying to make Tamerlan the heavy and Jahar his pawn.One of the witnesses, a boxing coach who knew the brothers when they were younger, spoke the words that surely were music to the defense attorneys' ears. Asked to describe Jahar, John Curran said: "I remember mentioning to somebody that he was like a puppy following his brother."The subject of Tamerlan has dominated the testimony. Besides the computer expert and his former boxing coach, witnesses have included his music teacher, his mother-in-law, his wife's best friend, a handful of classmates and acquaintances and his landlady's son.They spoke about how he pursued a career as an amateur boxer but was disappointed when his lack of U.S. citizenship stifled his progress. He went from hard-drinking, pot smoking drug dealer to clean-living, devout stay-at-home dad.While he once was a flashy dresser who left a plume of aftershave behind him and wore boots the color of aluminum foil, he began to walk the streets of Cambridge in the flowing robes of devout Muslims.All the while, the defense says, he obsessively trolled the Internet in search of the messages of violent jihad. His encrypted file included dozens of dead and maimed children, apparently from conflicts abroad.Accidental disclosureIn addition to Tuesday's testimony, disclosures about the defense case and behind-the-scenes dramas involving the witnesses were accidentally disclosed in a transcript of defense attorney David Bruck's opening statement. Copies of the transcript were purchased by CNN and several other media outlets.The transcript inadvertently included sidebar conversations between Judge George O'Toole and the prosecution and defense teams. Those conversations usually are held in the judge's chambers, or otherwise out of earshot of the jury and the public. At times, the court plays soft jazz to prevent eavesdropping.JUST WATCHED How the Tsarnaevs' plan unraveled Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How the Tsarnaevs' plan unraveled 01:15But the transcript revealed the following:One friend of Tamerlan's is missing and neither the defense nor the prosecution can find him. Another friend refuses to testify and planned to invoke his 5th Amendment right against self-incrimination if he was forced to take the witness stand.Reports of FBI interviews with the two men -- the missing Magomed Dalokov and reluctant Viskian Vakhabov -- were read into the court record on Tuesday. Dalokov went to a gym and boxed with the brothers on the Friday night before the bombings. Vakhabov told the FBI that Tamerlan Tsarnaev spoke often about his belief in violent jihad and believed it was "the right way to go."The defense had planned to introduce evidence that Tamerlan Tsarnaev was violent with his wife, Katherine Russell, but that avenue of questioning was cut off by a prosecutor's objection.The trial record, as it stands, is as follows:Katherine Russell's best friend since childhood, Gina Crawford, is on the stand. She is asked about a phone call she received from Katherine's college roommates while she was dating Tamerlan."The other roommates were upset," she said. "They thought Katie was in domestic ...""Objection!" Assistant U.S. Attorney William Weinreb thundered, and the lawyers quickly moved to sidebar. Strains of jazz wafted from the speakers.JUST WATCHED Boston Marathon bomber flips the bird at camera Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boston Marathon bomber flips the bird at camera 01:55Defense attorney Judy Clarke filled in the blanks, according to the accidentally leaked transcript:"I know what she'll say. She got a telephone call from one of the parents of Katherine's roommates who reported that their daughter had reported that Tamerlan was physically abusive to Katherine."Weinreb objected that the testimony was "hearsay on top of hearsay."Clarke persisted, "But the government knows as well as we know that this is corroborated by an email that one of the roommates sent to a family member about Tamerlan being abusive to Katherine, this incident, and the roommates moved out. So that's been -- I mean, it's not a hearsay sort of pulled out of the air."The judge upheld the government's objection and the testimony was not heard.A mother-in-law's suspicionsThe transcript also revealed that Judith Russell, Tamerlan's mother-in-law, had her suspicions about his involvement in the bombing, even before the FBI knew his identity. She called the FBI when she learned he was dead."At some point Ms. Russell thought for a moment that it could have been Tamerlan that bombed the Boston Marathon, and the reason she thought that was because he had become intensely radical in his views of Islam and politics, and she was aware that the FBI had interviewed him at some point," Clarke explained at yet another sidebar."So she had these immediate concerns, and then she pushed them out of her head because she thought how horrible could it be that she could have that thought about him, her own son-in-law."Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Martin Richard, 8, was in the second grade and loved the Red Sox. He was the middle of three children and is best known for a school project in which he made a poster with a peace sign and the words "No more hurting people." He was less than 4 feet from the second bomb. He bled to death as his mother leaned over him, begging him to live. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Lingzi Lu, 23, was a graduate student from China, studying statistics. A gifted musician and public speaker, she was enjoying her time in the United States. She decided to watch the Boston Marathon as a study break. The second bomb sliced her leg open from hip to toe, and she bled to death. Her aunt called her "a beautiful nerd." Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Krystle Campbell, 29, was remembered by her father as his "Princess," but she loved sports and the outdoors and "wasn't a girly girl," he said. She put on big family parties and was close to her brother. She was working as a restaurant manager. She was burned and cut by hot shrapnel from the first bomb and bled to death. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Sean Collier, 26, grew up in a big "Brady Bunch"-blended family and always wanted to be a police officer. He viewed the world from a moral stance, and felt a strong sense of right and wrong. He loved to race cars with his brother and go on family vacations. He was shot to death in his patrol car on the MIT campus because the Tsarnaev brothers wanted his gun to use in their escape. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Celeste Corcoran, left, and her daughter, Sydney Corcoran, recovered in the same hospital room. Doctors were able to save Sydney's leg, but Celeste lost both of hers. Sydney recalled how she felt the life drain from her body and believed she was dying. Celeste felt great frustration when she couldn't rush to her daughter's side. "I never forget I'm a double amputee," Celeste said. "There's always a level of discomfort." Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Adrianne Haslet-Davis is a ballroom dancer. She remembers walking through the crowd on Boylston Street, holding hands with her husband, Adam, and feeling happy and in love. Then the bombs went off. Her husband, who is in the military, told her they'd been in a terrorist attack. But the second bomb went off before they could leave. She knew immediately something was wrong with her foot, and could see blood everywhere. She couldn't hear her own screams and thought she was dead. They were dragged into the Forum restaurant, and a first responder recalled hearing her husband apologize to her over and over for bringing her to the event. She testified that he recently checked himself into a Veterans Affairs mental health program. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Erika Brannock was the last bomb survivor to leave the hospital. She came to the marathon from her home in suburban Maryland to cheer her mother on and was excited about being able to get so close to the finish line. Her sister, Nicole Gross, testified that she recalled pushing Brannock through the crowd so they could get closer. "I said, 'One, two, three, go,' and as soon as I said, 'Go,' the bomb went off," Gross said. Brannock told reporters in 2013 that she saw flashes of orange and yellow light and was knocked to the pavement. She couldn't move her foot and thought she was going to die. She said she's had moments when she was angry with the bombers but "I can't waste my energy being angry. I need to save energy for getting well and for being with people who care about me and want me to get better." Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Jeff Bauman remembers looking down at his legs. "It was just pure carnage. I could see my bones and the flesh sticking out, and I just went into tunnel vision. I thought this is really messed up, this is messed up, that's all I said in my head. This is how it's going to end. This is it. I had a great life. I saw the world. I played sports growing up. I had a lot of friends ... I made peace with myself at that point." Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Heather Abbott was outside the Forum restaurant when the second bomb went off. "I was catapulted through the doors of the restaurant, which was open. I landed in a puddle of chaos and blood and glass. People were running in herds by me, through the restaurant to get to the back exit, away from where the bomb was." Her foot was badly mangled, and she decided to amputate below the knee. She wears a prosthetic with toes and a high heel. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured J.P. Norden, left, and his brother, Paul Norden, did not testify during the trial, preferring to put the bombing behind them. Their mother, Liz, is outspoken in the survivor community. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Karen Rand McWatters lost a leg -- and one of her best friends. She and Krystle Campbell spent the day laughing and posting selfies on Facebook before heading to the finish line. She was knocked to the ground by the first blast, and heard the second before she could understand what was happening. Her foot was turned in the wrong direction, but she dragged herself toward Campbell. She couldn't see how badly hurt her friend was. "I got close to her head, and we put our faces together. She very slowly said her legs hurt, and we held hands and very shortly after her hand went limp and we never spoke again." Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Mery Daniel, a young mother from Haiti, was attending her second marathon when she was knocked to the pavement. She lost a leg, and the other leg was also damaged. She had pushed herself from ESL classes all the way to medical school, and instead found herself relearning how to walk with a prosthesis. She wears her "Boston Strong" T-shirt proudly. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Marc Fucarile was at the marathon with friends, and was struck by hot shrapnel from the second bomb. His pants caught fire, and he suffered burns over 90% of his lower body. His belt buckle was so hot, it burned his hand when he tried to undo it. One leg was blown off at the scene, and he's still trying to save the other, but might not win that battle, he said. He's had more skin grafts than he can remember. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Patrick Downes and Jessica Kensky Downes met when they were interns on Capitol Hill. She lost both legs and was pushed into court in a wheelchair. Her aide dog, Rescue, lay beside her as she testified. "I remember being happy, I remember feeling sunlight on my face. I remember feeling free." And then the bomb went off. Because she is a nurse, she focused on saving her husband. His foot and part of his leg were hanging by a thread. She remembers screaming, and not being able to hear anything. This photo was taken before she decided to amputate her second leg in January. "I wanted to paint my toenails and put my feet in the sand. I wanted all of those things, and to lose my second leg was a gut-wrenching decision." Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Rebekah Gregory was celebrating her birthday weekend at the marathon with family and friends. She remembers coming to after the blast and reaching for her 5-year-old son, Noah. She could see bones protruding from her arm. She also lost a leg below the knee. Like many bomb survivors, she was convinced she was going to die that day. She is using a blade to run again. After she testified, she wrote a note to Dzhokhar Tsarnaev on her Facebook page saying she is not afraid of him. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Roseann Sdoia had run a 5K the day before the marathon. She heard the first bomb and decided to run for it. Then she saw two explosions of white light at her feet. She knew she'd lost a leg before she hit the ground. She saw a severed foot with a sock and remembers asking herself if she wore socks that day. "It was somebody else's foot." She thought she'd rather die than live as an amputee but then considered all the people she'd be leaving behind. So she willed herself to stay conscious and fight. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Jane Richard, in the pink skirt, lost her leg. She holds the hand of her brother Henry as they walk down Boylston Street with their parents and others after an April 15 ceremony this year. She was standing next to her brother Martin behind a metal barricade when the second bomb went off. Her father, Bill, took one look at Martin, knew he wouldn't make it and focused his efforts on saving Jane. She sang in April at Fenway Park on opening day. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Mary Jo White and Bill White, right, had gone with son Kevin into the city for lunch and were on their way back to "the T," as Boston's public transportation system is called, when they decided to stop by the finish line. They were just feet away from the first bomb. Bill, a veteran who earned a Purple Heart in Vietnam, lost his leg above the knee. Kevin, who serves as the family spokesman, says his parents, who are in their 70s, don't like to talk about the events of April 15, 2013. He told his local newspaper he "really has no feelings" for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Steve Woolfenden, a biomedical researcher, was pushing his son, Leo, in a stroller along Boylston Street. His wife was running the marathon, and they were making their way to the finish line when the first bomb went off. He started to turn the stroller around in the crowd, but the second blast caught them. Woolfenden's leg was severed on the scene. He could see it still in the boot next to him, the tibia protruding. His focus was on Leo and getting him help. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Leo Woolfenden was lifted from his stroller by a first responder as the boy's father lay on the ground with a severed leg. Leo suffered a skull fracture.Hide Caption 20 of 20And, finally, the transcript revealed that five people, including Tsarnaev's relatives, have been brought to the United States from Russia to testify for the defense. The FBI has dedicated 16 agents to guard them from journalists and gawkers, which Weinreb said the agency considers "an enormous expense and distraction."The government intends to send the Russians back home before the weekend, he added. "I just want the record to reflect that it is still our intention that they are all going back to Russia on Friday whether they have testified or not."Defense attorney William Fick, however, complained that it was having trouble gaining access to the Russians, given "the condition under which their presence was permitted and the conditions under which we're able to interact with them."It appears the Russian relatives will testify one after another, on Thursday, according to the transcript. The defense estimates each will take the stand for 30 minutes.