(CNN) Congress will review the Iran nuke deal. President Obama wants Cuba off terror list. And a jury is seated in yet another high-profile trial.It's Wednesday (Tax Day!), and here are the five things to know for your New Day.IRAN NUKE DEAL BILLLooks like Congress will get to review any potential Iran nuclear deal after all. Yesterday, a Senate committee unanimously approved a bill requiring President Obama to submit any final agreement with Iran to Congress, which will have up to 52 days to review. That includes an initial review period of 30 days, with 12 more days added automatically if Congress passes a bill and sends it to the President, and an additional 10 days of congressional review if Obama vetoes the legislation. In light of the bipartisan support for the compromise, the White House promptly dropped its veto threats and said the President would sign the bill if it passes.Congress forces its way into Iran dealCongress forces its way into Iran deal 01:55Congress forces its way into Iran dealCUBAOff terror list? President Obama recommended to Congress yesterday that Cuba be President Obama recommended to Congress yesterday that Cuba be removed from the government's list of state sponsors of terrorism. The recommendation -- which was expected -- comes after Obama's historic meeting over the weekend with Cuban President Raul Castro, as the two countries try to re-establish diplomatic relations. There was some grumbling from the GOP about the recommendation, but one Republican senator said it's "the right move to make" and he was glad Obama did it. Congress could pass a resolution to block Obama's decision, although at this point it probably wouldn't survive a presidential veto.JUST WATCHED Obama asks Congress to move Cuba off terror list Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama asks Congress to move Cuba off terror list 00:45BEACH GANG RAPE'Not the first': Panama City Beach is reeling from a video that appears to show a woman being gang raped on a beach of the popular Florida spring break destination. It's : Panama City Beach is reeling from a video that appears to show a woman being gang raped on a beach of the popular Florida spring break destination. It's not the first time such a thing has happened there, said Bay County Sheriff Frank McKeithen, who added "there's a number of videos we've recovered with things similar to this, and I can only imagine how many things we haven't recovered." Two Alabama college students have been arrested, while an arrest warrant has been issued for a third suspect. The victim didn't even know what had happened to her until she saw an edited portion of the video on the news. The woman plans to press charges.JUST WATCHED Police: Bystanders on beach watched rape Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police: Bystanders on beach watched rape 02:31USE OF FORCESuspect run over: Is it OK for the police to run over an armed man to keep the public safe? That's the debate in Arizona, after video surfaced of a police officer using his car to Is it OK for the police to run over an armed man to keep the public safe? That's the debate in Arizona, after video surfaced of a police officer using his car to intentionally run into a robbery-arson suspect armed with a rifle. The incident occurred in February in a town near Tucson. Police say the use of force was warranted because the man had already fired a shot into the air from the stolen rifle he was carrying and he was running towards a heavily populated area. The man's lawyer said that's nonsense. The video proves it was an "obvious excessive use of force," she said, adding that it was a miracle her client wasn't killed. The suspect -- who faces 15 charges, including several felonies -- has a court appearance next month. No charges have been brought against the officer.JUST WATCHED Dash cam video shows police car hit suspect Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dash cam video shows police car hit suspect 03:11COLORADO MOVIE THEATER SHOOTINGJury picked: Nineteen women and five men. That's the group (jury plus alternates) that will decide the fate of accused shooter James Holmes. He's accused of killing 12 people and injuring dozens when he allegedly opened fire inside a packed theater during a midnight showing of "The Dark Knight Rises" in July 2012. Holmes has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. It's taken a long time to get to this point: jury selection started in January with 9,000 potential jurors. Now the Nineteen women and five men. That's the group (jury plus alternates) that will decide the fate of accused shooter James Holmes. He's accused of killing 12 people and injuring dozens when he allegedly opened fire inside a packed theater during a midnight showing of "The Dark Knight Rises" in July 2012. Holmes has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. It's taken a long time to get to this point: jury selection started in January with 9,000 potential jurors. Now the jury seated yesterday will hear opening statements in the case near the end of the month.Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The public gets its first glimpse of James Holmes, then 24, the suspect in the Colorado theater shooting during his initial court appearance July 23, 2012. With his hair dyed reddish-orange, Holmes, here with public defender Tamara Brady, showed little emotion. He is accused of opening fire in a movie theater July 20, 2012, in Aurora, Colorado, killing 12 people and wounding 70. Holmes faces 166 counts, almost all alleging murder or attempted murder. He has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. More photos: Mourning the victims of the Colorado theater massacre Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police release the official photo from Holmes' booking after the shooting. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes often had a blank stare during his July 23, 2012, court appearance, seeming to be in a daze. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Victims and their relatives and journalists watch the proceedings in 2012. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Flags fly at half-staff on July 23, 2012, at the Arapahoe County Courthouse in Centennial, Colorado, where the movie theater shooting suspect had his first court appearance. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Arapahoe County District Attorney Carol Chambers talks to reporters July 23, 2012, before heading into the courthouse. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Family members of the victims arrive at the courthouse July 23, 2012, for the suspect's first court appearance. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The Century Aurora 16 multiplex in Aurora becomes a place of horror after a gunman opened fire July 20, 2012, in a crowded theater. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes is accused of opening fire during a midnight screening of the Batman movie "The Dark Knight Rises." Holmes purchased four weapons and more than 6,000 rounds of ammunition, police say. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police investigate outside the Century 16 multiplex July 21, 2012, a day after the mass shooting. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the suspect's car outside the theater. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police escort a sand-filled dump truck containing improvised explosive devices removed from Holmes' booby-trapped apartment on July 21, 2012. Authorities have said they believe the suspect rigged his place before leaving for the movie theater. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police break a window at the suspect's apartment July 20, 2012, in Aurora. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers speak with Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper, center, outside the suspect's apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers prepare to disarm the booby-trapped apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officials tow cars outside Holmes' apartment July 21, 2012. Police disassembled devices and trip wires set up in the apartment. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers prepare to place an explosive device inside the apartment. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Debris flies out a window, right, after law enforcement officers detonate an explosive device inside the apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People mourn the victims during a vigil behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers in Aurora. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman grieves during a vigil for victims behind the theater. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A distraught woman receives counseling from the Rev. Quincy Shannon, left, in front of Gateway High School in Aurora, where the families of the missing met after the shooting. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Lin Gan of Aurora holds back tears as she speaks to reporters about her experience in the Century 16 theater. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People embrace before a vigil for victims behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators work on evidence near the apartment of James Holmes on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Members of the Aurora Police Department SWAT unit walk near the Holmes' apartment. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Television news crews gather in front of the home of Robert and Arlene Holmes, parents of suspect James Holmes, in San Diego on July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A popcorn box lies on the ground outside the Century 16 movie theater. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Adariah Legarreta, 4, is comforted by her grandmother Rita Abeyta near the Century 16 Theater in Aurora. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Jessica Ghawi, an aspiring sportscaster, was one of the victims. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman waits for news outside Gateway High School, a few blocks from the scene of the shooting at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police chief Daniel J. Oates speaks at a press conference near the Century 16 Theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the trash container outside the suspect's apartment in Aurora. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A Federal ATF officer carries protective gear onsite at the home of the shooting suspect. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre President Obama speaks on the shootings at a July 20, 2012, event in Fort Myers, Florida. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Moviegoers are interviewed at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers gather at the theater July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators were a common sight at the theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Authorities gather at the shooting suspect's apartment building in Aurora. Police broke a second-floor window to look for explosives the suspect claimed were in the apartment. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Screaming, panicked moviegoers scrambled to escape from the black-clad gunman, who wore a gas mask and randomly shot as he walked up the theater's steps, witnesses said. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Onlookers gather outside the Century Aurora 16 theater. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman sits on top of her car near the crime scene. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police block access to the Town Center mall after the shooting. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Cell phone video taken by someone at the theater showed scores of people screaming and fleeing the building. Some, like this man, had blood on their clothes. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Witnesses told KUSA the gunman kicked in an emergency exit door and threw a smoke bomb into the darkened theater before opening fire. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre What is believed to be the suspect's car is examined after the shooting. Hide Caption 45 of 45Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Close, but...: SpaceX rocket fails to nail the landing"Closing Time": Target employees use their (considerable) downtime to perform the Semisonic song. At least the guy has a nice voice.Semisonic - Closing Time (Target Edition) VIEW IT ON YOUTUBE HERE - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kVkF4b0lKIs&feature=youtu.be "A little musical send off, with what we had available."----------------------------------------------------------------------------------Seeing as this has gone viral I feel as though I should update this description to provide a little more detail. Our final day was closing in, we were discussing how to close out the store and had no ideas. We decided that we would play the song "Closing Time" by Semisonic over the P.A system, but Kyle decided to take it one step further and taught himself how to play it on the guitar. We were discussing it again a few days later and he mentioned that he had his guitar in his car and had learned the song. So we printed off the lyrics (that Liam M didn't even know 20 minutes prior to recording this) and began putting the pieces together, with this being our result.In one take, and no practice, we took to our make shift instruments. I sat and played a shopping basket with two plastic hangers, Liam M grabbed a hanger bar to use as a faux-mic, and Eric mounted up his camera and masterfully filmed and edited this bad boy. With Brady and Liam K (Skipper) pulling us along, we poured our heart into our final goodbye through song, to a job we loved, and a building that contains so many great memories!Enjoy! Posted by Evan Holbein on Sunday, April 12, 2015Nothing to see here: A Buckingham Palace guard slips and falls in front of tourists. Watch him play it off like nothing happened.Premature celebration: A runner from the University of Oregon celebrates just a tad too early.Drumming momma: Your mom may be cool, but she can't slap the skins like this.