(CNN) The day Baltimore planned to lay Freddie Gray to rest, the city went up in smoke.Riots have broken out throughout Baltimore less than three weeks after a 25-year-old man died in police custody.What started as peaceful protests days ago have turned violent, with stores being looted, rocks being thrown at police and buildings and cars set on fire.Here's what we know happened on Monday leading up to the violence:JUST WATCHED Family, dignitaries pay respects to Freddie Gray Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Family, dignitaries pay respects to Freddie Gray 02:5911:00 a.m. -- The funeral for Freddie Gray is set to begin.1:42 p.m. -- The casket holding Freddie Gray's body is loaded onto the hearse.3:00 p.m. -- A so-called flier from a local high school says that a "purge" is scheduled to start, according to the -- A so-called flier from a local high school says that a "purge" is scheduled to start, according to the Baltimore Sun . The film "The Purge" is about a dystopian society in which crime is low in the United States because all laws are suspended for one 24-hour period every year.3:30 p.m. -- Dozens of police can be seen gathered on the streets of Baltimore.3:34 p.m. -- Protesters begin to confront riot police.3:41 p.m. -- CNN reports that protesters are beginning to throw bottles at police officers and journalists.JUST WATCHED Reports of bottles, bricks being thrown at police Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Reports of bottles, bricks being thrown at police 02:443:49 p.m. -- CNN cameras show a police officer being carried off.3:51 p.m. -- Helicopter footage from CNN affiliate WJLA captures white smoke billowing up from the street. Neill Franklin, a former Maryland state police officer, tells CNN "it's like the perfect place for something like this to occur."4:27 p.m. -- WJLA's helicopter records people wrecking a police car.4:29 p.m. -- Baltimore Police tweet out first reports of bottles and bricks being thrown at officers.A group of juveniles are still in the area of Mondawmin Mall. We are hearing reports of bottles and bricks being thrown at officers. — Baltimore Police (@BaltimorePolice) April 27, 2015JUST WATCHED Rioters set fire to looted drug store Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rioters set fire to looted drug store 01:215:51 p.m. -- Baltimore police report a massive fire at Federal Street and Gay Street.6:19 p.m. -- The gates at Camden Yards, home of Major League Baseball's Baltimore Orioles, can be seen being closed.6:26 p.m. -- The CVS that was looted goes up in smoke.6:47 p.m. -- Gov. Larry Hogan's office announces that all previously scheduled events on his calendar on Tuesday will be canceled.6:50 p.m. -- A man can be seen on CNN stabbing a hose that firefighters are trying to use.JUST WATCHED Rioters cut water hose trying to put out fire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rioters cut water hose trying to put out fire 01:077:01 p.m. -- Gov. Larry Hogan's office announces that he has declared a state of emergency and will active the National Guard to address the unrest in Baltimore.7:20 p.m. -- The Orioles announce they've postponed Monday night's game.After consultation with Baltimore City Police Department, tonight's game between the Orioles & White Sox at Oriole Park has been postponed. — Baltimore Orioles (@Orioles) April 27, 20157:58 p.m. -- Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake announces that a citywide, nightly curfew will be imposed starting Tuesday from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. It will be in effect for one week, Rawlings-Blake said at a press conference.8:51 p.m. -- Col. William Pallozzi of the Maryland State Police announces that up to 5,000 law enforcement officials will be requested from the mid-Atlantic region to help quell the violence in Baltimore.9:23 p.m. -- Public schools will be closed on Tuesday in Baltimore, a city official says.