(CNN) A white casket sat at the front of New Shiloh Baptist Church in West Baltimore as a gospel choir sang for a large crowd gathered to honor Freddie Gray.The 25-year-old died in police custody 15 days ago after he was arrested on a weapons charge. His death from a severe spinal chord injury sparked widespread outrage toward the Baltimore Police Department.Gray's death in custody is the latest in a string of high profile deaths involving African-Americans and law enforcement.Many have demanded answers about what happened to Gray and his funeral drew civil rights leaders, politicians, and relatives of others who died in police custody.Democratic Congressman Elijah Cummings of Maryland spoke at the funeral: "To mother Gloria and to the entire family, I want you to know we stand with you during this difficult time."Cummings said he "looked at the cameras" and reflected on the great amount of attention Gray was receiving in death: "Did anybody recognize Freddie Gray when he was alive?" he asked.Cummings said that Gray joined the church in 2001. He was in youth choir and was a junior usher."He loved church," Cummings said.Gray also played football. "Did you see him?" the representative asked."There are those who will tell you don't cry. I'm not going to say that," Cummings said.Gray also had a history of run-ins with the law. According to court documents CNN obtained, there were more than 20 criminal court cases in Maryland against Gray, and five of those cases were still active at the time of his death. The cases involve mostly drug-related charges, but there are charges from March for second-degree assault and destruction of property. Gray was due in court on a possession charge on April 24.He had been in and out of prison since 2009 for various drug cases, according to the Maryland Department of Corrections.Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral A pillow with Freddie Gray's image sits inside his casket during his funeral at the New Shiloh Baptist Church in Baltimore on Monday, April 27. Gray, 25, was arrested on April 12. According to his attorney, Gray died a week later from a severe spinal cord injury he received while in police custody. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral People in the audience react as attorney William Murphy speaks at Gray's funeral. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Gray's twin sister, Fredericka Gray, is embraced by family members and supporters during her brother's funeral. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral People watch as Gray's casket is carried out of the church. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Mourners pay their respects at Gray's casket. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral A man wears a button that pays tribute to Gray. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Gray's loved ones pray during his funeral. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Mourners wait for the start of the funeral. Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Two women comfort each other. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Mourners help a woman who collapsed during the funeral. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral The Rev. Jesse Jackson, left, speaks with Rep. Elijah Cummings of Maryland before the start of the funeral. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Gray's mother, Gloria Darden, kneels at his casket and embraces him before the start of the funeral. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral A man arrives for the funeral. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Men prepare to remove Gray's casket from the hearse in front of the church. Hide Caption 14 of 14Families United for Justice was also at the funeral. The group includes relatives of Eric Garner , who died last July after a New York City police officer put him in a chokehold. Protests erupted after a grand jury declined to indict that officer.Other members of the group include relatives of Amadou Diallo , who was fatally shot by New York police officers, and Alberta Spruill , who died of a heart attack after police threw a stun grenade into her apartment during a botched raid.The White House sent Cabinet Secretary Broderick Johnson, chair of the Obama administration's My Brother's Keeper Task Force ; Heather Foster, an adviser in the White House Office of Public Engagement; and Elias Alcantara from the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs.Questions remainExactly what happened to Gray remains a mystery. His family said his voice box was crushed and his neck snapped before he slipped into a coma and died.News of Gray's smashed upper spine and the delay in getting him medical care has triggered outrage across the country.Peaceful protests marredHundreds of protesters peacefully rallied on the streets of Baltimore on Saturday against the alleged police role in Gray's death. A small group turned violent.About a dozen young men smashed police vehicles with garbage cans, climbed on top of the cars and stomped on them.JUST WATCHED Baltimore protesters damage police cars Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Baltimore protesters damage police cars 01:49Some hurled water bottles and other objects at police.Others funneled their anger toward local businesses, looting or damaging a 7-Eleven, a Michael Kors store and a Subway restaurant.Baltimore police arrested 35 people, including four juveniles. Six officers suffered minor injuries during the chaos, which ended a week of civil and peaceful protests.Gray's twin sister deplored the violence."My family wants to say, 'Can y'all please, please stop the violence,' " Fredericka Gray said Saturday night. "Freddie Gray would not want this."Journalists detained by policeBaltimore City Paper said its photo editor, J.M. Giordano, was tackled and beaten by police while covering the protests.The paper said Giordano was standing near protesters when someone threw a rock at police. Officers responded, and Giordano was unable to get out of the way.JUST WATCHED Baltimore mayor: Violence during protests unacceptable Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Baltimore mayor: Violence during protests unacceptable 01:10"They just swarmed over me," he said. "I got hit. My head hit the ground. They were hitting me, then someone pulled me out."The incident was caught on video, which Baltimore City Paper posted onlineAnd Reuters photographer Sait Serkan Gurbuz said Baltimore police detained him Saturday night.Photos: Baltimore protests Photos: Baltimore protests People hold hands during a rally at Baltimore City Hall on Sunday, May 3. The death of Freddie Gray, who died in police custody, sparked rioting in Baltimore and protests across the country Hide Caption 1 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Members of the National Guard board a truck at an armory staging area on May 3 in Baltimore. After a night of relatively peaceful protests, the city lifted a curfew , the National Guard is preparing its exit and a mall that had been a flashpoint in the protests has been reopened. Hide Caption 2 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Medics take a man away after police pepper-sprayed him on Saturday, May 2, in Baltimore's Sandtown neighborhood where Freddie Gray was arrested in April. Hide Caption 3 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police detain a man on May 2 in Baltimore's Sandtown neighborhood. Hide Caption 4 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters hold signs on May 2 in the Sandtown neighborhood. Hide Caption 5 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters march from the Gilmor Homes housing community, where Freddie Gray was arrested, to City Hall on Saturday, May 2, in Baltimore. Hide Caption 6 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police in riot gear enforce a 10 p.m. curfew and clear Baltimore streets of protesters and media on Friday, May 1. Hide Caption 7 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests U.S. Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Maryland, helps clear Baltimore streets of protesters on May 1. Hide Caption 8 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators celebrate the announcement that six officers were charged May 1 in Gray's death. Hide Caption 9 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators march through the streets of Baltimore after the charges against the officers were announced May 1. Hide Caption 10 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police on horseback block a Baltimore street on May 1. Hide Caption 11 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A demonstrator celebrates in Baltimore the charges were announced on May 1. Hide Caption 12 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A member of the National Guard stands outside Baltimore City Hall as protesters gather on Wednesday, April 29. Hide Caption 13 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests High school and college students march from Baltimore's Penn Station to City Hall on April 29. Hide Caption 14 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A community organizer later identified as Joseph Kent paces in front of riot police with his hands up during a curfew in Baltimore on Tuesday, April 28. Moments later, he was seen being arrested by police live on CNN . Kent's lawyer said on April 30 that his client had been released from jail. While some protesters defied the curfew and faced off with police, demonstrations Tuesday were largely peaceful. Hide Caption 15 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests State Sen. Catherine E. Pugh embraces a protester while urging the crowd to disperse ahead of the 10 p.m. curfew. Hide Caption 16 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People attempt to stop protesters from approaching a police line on April 28. Hide Caption 17 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A Baltimore police captain tries to calm a protester on April 28. Hide Caption 18 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Two women sweep up the streets in Baltimore -- reflected in the broken window of a storefront on April 28. See more photos of the cleanup efforts. Hide Caption 19 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A band plays music during protests on April 28 in Baltimore. Hide Caption 20 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A boy in Baltimore offers water to a police officer on April 28. Hide Caption 21 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Jerrie Mckenny, left, and her sister Tia Sexton embrace as demonstrators hold hands and sing the hymn "Amazing Grace" in Baltimore on April 28. Hide Caption 22 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators stand in front of a police line and call for peace after a bottle was thrown on April 28. Hide Caption 23 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Maryland National Guardsmen patrol the streets on April 28. Hide Caption 24 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests The remains of a senior center smolder on April 28. Riots broke out Monday, April 27, after Freddie Gray's funeral Hide Caption 25 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police retreat from burned-out cars in an intersection on Monday, April 27. Hide Caption 26 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Firefighters respond to a burning building during the riots late April 27. Hide Caption 27 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer walks by a burning building on April 27. Hide Caption 28 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police stand guard on April 27. Hide Caption 29 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters climb on a destroyed Baltimore Police car in the street near the corner of Pennsylvania and North avenues on April 27. Hide Caption 30 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A mixture of milk and water rolls down a man's chest after he was pepper sprayed by the Baltimore Police April 27. Hide Caption 31 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A man rides a bicycle through heavy smoke emitting from a nearby store on fire April 27. Hide Caption 32 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A man shouts for calm as protesters clash with police April 27. Hide Caption 33 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police carry an injured officer from the streets near Mondawmin Mall in Baltimore on April 27. Hide Caption 34 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People carrying goods leave a CVS pharmacy near Pennsylvania and North avenues on April 27. Hide Caption 35 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A demonstrator raises his fist as police stand in formation on April 27. Hide Caption 36 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Armored cars drive down Pennsylvania Avenue as looters break into shops on April 27. Hide Caption 37 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People lock arms and form a line opposing police at the corner of Pennsylvania and North avenues on April 27. Hide Caption 38 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police form a barrier between protesters and a burning CVS being attended to by firefighters on April 27. Hide Caption 39 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People carry goods out of a CVS pharmacy on April 27. Hide Caption 40 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police vehicle burns April 27. Hide Caption 41 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer throws an object at protesters on April 27. Hide Caption 42 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A man carries items from a store as police vehicles burn on April 27. Hide Caption 43 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer checks on a man who was injured on April 27. Hide Caption 44 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer is carried to safety after being hit in the head with a rock during the riot on April 27. Hide Caption 45 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer uses pepper spray on rioters on April 27. Hide Caption 46 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police officers push back a protester on April 27. Hide Caption 47 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police react during the riot on April 27. Hide Caption 48 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Baltimore police officers in riot gear look toward protesters near Mondawmin Mall on April 27. Hide Caption 49 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony Batts chases away protesters in a parking lot on April 27. Hide Caption 50 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A woman abandons her car in the middle of an intersection as Baltimore Police officers clash with protesters outside the Mondawmin Mall in Baltimore on April 27. Hide Caption 51 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police handle the protesters during a riot on April 27. Hide Caption 52 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A demonstrator taunts police on April 27. Hide Caption 53 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters stand off with police during a march in honor of Gray in Baltimore on Saturday, April 25. Hide Caption 54 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A protester throws a barricade at a bar near Oriole Park at Camden Yards after a rally on April 25. Hide Caption 55 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters chase after a car as it drives in reverse after the rally on April 25. Hide Caption 56 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A protester breaks a store window after the rally in Baltimore on April 25. Hide Caption 57 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters get into a shoving match with police during a march downtown on April 25. Hide Caption 58 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters and police square off April 25. Hide Caption 59 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters drive through the Camden Yards area on April 25. Hide Caption 60 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Members of the Baltimore Police Department stand guard Thursday, April 23, outside the department's Western District station during a protest. Hide Caption 61 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer films protesters from the steps of the Western District station on April 23. Hide Caption 62 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Empowerment Temple Pastor Jamal Harrison Bryant speaks in front of City Hall in Baltimore on April 23. Hide Caption 63 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators put their fists in the air during a protest outside the Baltimore police's Western District station on Wednesday, April 22. Hide Caption 64 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Hundreds of demonstrators march toward the Western District station on April 22. Hide Caption 65 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People march through the streets of Baltimore on April 22. Hide Caption 66 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators argue with Baltimore officers during the protest on April 22. Hide Caption 67 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A woman is comforted during the protest on April 22. Hide Caption 68 of 68Officers called the detention of the two journalists inadvertent."One journalist (Gurbuz) was released with a criminal citation, which is being recalled," police said in a statement. "One journalist (Giordano) was released without any charges."The investigationCell phone video of Gray's arrest shows him screaming and being dragged, with some witnesses saying he looked like his leg was injured.JUST WATCHED What happened to Freddie Gray? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What happened to Freddie Gray? 03:46Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony Batts said he was appalled that Gray did not receive proper care immediately. He also said officers should have given Gray timely medical care "multiple times" -- such as at the site of the arrest and at other times during his transport to the police station.Batts also said there are no excuses for the fact that Gray was not buckled into the transport van.But Baltimore's Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 3 shot back: "These comments appear to be politically driven and in direct contrast to the commissioner's own request not to jump to any conclusions until the entire investigation is complete," union President Gene Ryan said in a written statement.Five of the six officers involved in the arrest have provided statements to investigators, Batts said. The sixth officer has invoked his right to refuse to answer questions.And while the preliminary work on Gray's autopsy has been completed, the medical examiner's office is waiting on toxicology results and might ask spinal experts to look at the case, authorities said. A full report could take 30 to 45 days.