(CNN) After deliberating for more than 35 hours over parts of seven days, listening intently to the testimony of more than 130 witnesses and reviewing more than 400 pieces of evidence, the teary-eyed men and women of the jury exchanged embraces.Since late January, their work in the Massachusetts murder trial of former NFL star Aaron Hernandez had consumed their lives. It was nothing like "Law & Order." The days were long and tedious. Now it was over."It's been an incredibly emotional toll on all of us," Lesa Strachan told CNN's Anderson Cooper Thursday in the first nationally televised interview with members of the jury.A day earlier, Strachan, the jury foreperson, announced the first-degree murder conviction in the 2013 shooting death of Hernandez's onetime friend Odin LloydStrachan said she was struck by the viciousness of multiple gunshots."You shot him once but you kept going and you shot him six times. There's no need for that and there's no need to use a gun. Period."Before the trial, at least one juror -- Rosalie Oliver -- hadn't heard of the 25-year-old defendant who has now gone from a $40 million pro-football contract to a term of life without parole in a maximum-security prison.Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Former NFL football player Aaron Hernandez attends his murder trial in Fall River, Massachusetts, on Thursday, January 29. The state accused Hernandez of orchestrating the shooting death of semi-pro player Odin Lloyd, the boyfriend of his fiancee's sister, in 2013. Hernandez pleaded not guilty to a charge of first-degree murder, but he was convicted on Wednesday, April 15, and sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez is led into a Boston courtroom to be arraigned in May 2014. Evidence collected in Lloyd's death investigation led to two additional murder charges against Hernandez in a separate case in Boston. In that case, Hernandez is accused of shooting Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado, allegedly over a spilled drink at a nightclub. The double shooting took place in July 2012, almost a year before Lloyd was killed. Hernandez, who pleaded not guilty, will be tried in that case after the Lloyd trial. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez At a news conference in May 2014, Suffolk County District Attorney Dan Conley announces that Hernandez has been indicted for the July 2012 killings of Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez is brought into the Attleboro, Massachusetts, District Court for his arraignment on June 26, 2013. He was charged with first-degree murder in Lloyd's death. Hernandez was released by his NFL team, the New England Patriots, less than two hours after his arrest. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez catches a pass during Super Bowl XLVI on February 5, 2012. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez scores a 12-yard touchdown in the third quarter of Super Bowl XLVI. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez celebrates his Super Bowl touchdown. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez answers questions during Super Bowl Media Day on January 31, 2012. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez scores a touchdown against the Buffalo Bills on January 1, 2012. Hernandez played three seasons with the Patriots, catching 18 touchdowns. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Tattoos on Hernandez's arm are visible during a pregame warmup on December 4, 2011. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez looks up after being tackled during a game in Philadelphia on November 27, 2011. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez carries the ball as the Patriots play the Cincinnati Bengals in Foxborough, Massachusetts, on September 10, 2010. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez, center, reacts during the SEC Championship game between the Florida Gators and the Alabama Crimson Tide on December 6, 2008. Hernandez's Gators went on to win the national title. Hide Caption 13 of 13But Kelly Dorsey watches the Patriots every Sunday during the football season. She said so on her jury questionnaire."I knew of him as a football player, not a person," she said. It didn't affect her vote to convict, she said. It didn't matter that he was a football player, she said. Nor did it matter whether he actually pulled the trigger in the murder."To leave your friend on the ground, knowing that he's not there anymore -- he's either dead or he's going to die -- that's indifference," Dorsey said of Hernandez. "He didn't need to pull the trigger."That word -- "indifference" -- was used multiple times by members of the jury.Jon Carlson said he was struck by testimony and video evidence that Hernandez and two co-defendants were sunbathing poolside hours after the slaying, drinking smoothies. Hernandez at times left his then-8-month-old daughter with the two men.That indifference "surprised a lot of us," Carlson said.He stressed the fact that Hernandez played football for a living didn't influence the jury's decision."It doesn't matter how much money you have or how much money you make. We're all people, and we're all equal, and we all deserve the same fair trial, and that's what we wanted to make sure we gave him," Carlson said.Lloyd was seen June 17, 2013, around 2:30 a.m. with Hernandez and Hernandez's friends, Carlos Ortiz and Ernest Wallace, in a rented silver Nissan Altima. Later that day, a jogger found his body. He had been shot six times, according to prosecutors. Wallace and Ortiz, who were also charged with murder, have pleaded not guilty and will be tried separately.Rosalie Oliver -- the juror who hadn't heard of Hernandez before the trial -- said that, for her, the first shot was enough."There was no need for the other five," she said. "One shot for me is cruelty."Oliver and other jurors said they were surprised to receive calls from friends congratulating them after the verdict."Who won?" she asked "Odin Lloyd didn't win. (His mother) didn't bring back her son. Did Mr. Hernandez win? No, because he's going to serve the rest of his life in jail and he's 25 years old. The worst part for me is: How about that little girl that's never going to see her father again?"Oliver recalled making eye contact with Hernandez at one point during the months-long trial."He actually nodded to me one time," she said. "You come in that room every day and you see this person and it's hard to come to that decision at the end because -- like three months with them -- it's almost like they're part of you. And then, all of a sudden now, you've got to make that decision to either put him away or let him go."The jurors declined to talk about the dynamics inside the jury room, choosing instead to keep the focus on the evidence presented during trial. They conveyed a sense of gravity about their task."You see, you know, 'Law & Order' and all these different TV shows and it's just nothing like that at all. It's just very serious," Carlson said.