(CNN) A new twist in the Freddie Gray case. Baseball makes history with fanless game. And Hillary Clinton has some Democratic competition.It's Thursday, and here are five things to know for your New Day.BALTIMORE: Was Freddie Gray trying to hurt himself i nside that police van? That's what a Washington Post story, based on a document from the Baltimore police, asks. The document quotes a prisoner who was in the same van who said he could hear Gray "banging against the walls" of the van. Also, a female relative of one of the officers in the case told CNN the officer doesn't know how Gray was hurt during his arrest. Baltimore police will hand over its report on the case Friday to state prosecutors. Protesters hit the streets of Baltimore again yesterday over Gray's death, but things remained peaceful and crowds dissipated shortly after the second night's curfew began. Other protests broke out last night across the county, including New York, Washington and Denver.BASEBALLNo fans: Two teams? Check. National anthem? Check. Seventh-inning stretch? Check. Cheering fans? Two teams? Check. National anthem? Check. Seventh-inning stretch? Check. Cheering fans? Not yesterday afternoon in Baltimore. Safety concerns stemming from Monday's riots forced Major League Baseball to do something it's never done: lock out the fans. The Baltimore Orioles' 8-2 win over the Chicago White Sox before 46,000 empty seats was a strange sight, but the Orioles did have some fun, despite the circumstances. An Orioles catcher pretended to sign autographs, and a Baltimore first baseman hurled a ball to imaginary fans. And the fans weren't totally kept away from the game: About 100 of them caught bits of the action through gates outside the stadium.Photos: Empty stadium for Baltimore Orioles The Baltimore Orioles take on the Chicago White Sox in the first inning at an empty Oriole Park at Camden Yards on Wednesday, April 29. The baseball game was played in a stadium closed to the public after unrest in Baltimore following the death of Freddie Gray, a 25-year-old man who died after suffering a severe spinal injury in police custody. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Empty stadium for Baltimore Orioles Ticket windows are closed before the game at Camden Yards. For the first time in Major League Baseball, fans were shut out of a game. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Empty stadium for Baltimore Orioles A bar showing the baseball game sits empty behind center field. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Empty stadium for Baltimore Orioles Fans view the game from outside Oriole Park. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Empty stadium for Baltimore Orioles The Orioles face off against the White Sox in a surreal setting -- an empty stadium. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Empty stadium for Baltimore Orioles A welcome sign stands off to the side. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Empty stadium for Baltimore Orioles There are no cheering fans during the game. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Empty stadium for Baltimore Orioles Orioles first baseman Chris Davis hits a three-run home run in the bottom of the first inning. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Empty stadium for Baltimore Orioles A vendor waits for an elevator after removing food from concessions. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Empty stadium for Baltimore Orioles The view of the game from outside the stadium. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Empty stadium for Baltimore Orioles A National Guard vehicle passes Oriole Park. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Empty stadium for Baltimore Orioles Orioles catcher Caleb Joseph pretends to wave to fans. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Empty stadium for Baltimore Orioles Orioles players walk into the clubhouse after defeating the White Sox 8-2. Hide Caption 13 of 13PRESIDENTIAL RACESanders is in: Bernie Sanders announced yesterday Bernie Sanders announced yesterday he's running to be the Democrat's nominee for president, which is a bit strange because the independent Vermont senator has never been a registered Democrat and considers himself a socialist. But Sanders caucuses with the Democrats in the Senate and his left-of-center views align with many progressive Dems, some of whom are desperate to find an alternative to frontrunner Hillary Clinton. Sanders will outline his plan today when he holds a news conference in Washington. Advisers say he may not hold his first campaign rally until sometime in May in Vermont.JUST WATCHED Who is Bernie Sanders? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Bernie Sanders? 01:32NEPAL EARTHQUAKEA little hope: Things are grim right now in Nepal, as the death toll continues to climb after Saturday's earthquake. But a Things are grim right now in Nepal, as the death toll continues to climb after Saturday's earthquake. But a few stories of survival have helped lift people's spirits. A 27-year-old man was pulled from the rubble of a building yesterday, surviving 82 hours after the earthquake hit. His survival is unusual, as experts say it's rare for injured people who are trapped to hold out for longer than 72 hours after a disaster. A 4-month-old baby was rescued from a destroyed building in the town of Bhaktapur about 22 hours after the quake. Pictures of his rescue have become the defining image of the disaster. And a 40-year-old woman in Kathmandu was rescued 36 hours after her building collapsed around her. She escaped without injury -- she apparently was protected by a beam.Photos: Baby rescued from Nepal earthquake Four-month-old Sonit Awal spent 22 hours buried under the rubble of his home in Muldhoka, Bhaktapur after the Nepal earthquake, which hit on Saturday, April 25. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Baby rescued from Nepal earthquake Nepali soldiers pulled him to safety on Sunday morning, around 10 a.m. They'd previously left at midnight on Saturday night after finding no sign of the child, Kathmandu Today reported. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Baby rescued from Nepal earthquake The baby's rescuers held him high after pulling him out of the rubble, though his eyes were still tightly shut. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Baby rescued from Nepal earthquake Sonit's father, Shyam Awal had given up all hope of finding his son alive, when he heard faint cries coming from beneath the rubble. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Baby rescued from Nepal earthquake A hooded top protected Sonit's head from the dust, and his body was wrapped in a shawl during the cold night he spent trapped under debris. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Baby rescued from Nepal earthquake A soldier cradles the baby after he was pulled from the debris. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Baby rescued from Nepal earthquake Sonit had been buried under the mangled wreck of his house. A wrong move could have caused it to collapse further on top of the baby. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Baby rescued from Nepal earthquake Sonit was taken to Bhaktapur Hospital and found to be uninjured despite his night spent alone in the dark and debris. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Baby rescued from Nepal earthquake Nepali soldiers seen digging in debris of the Awal's collapsed home. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Baby rescued from Nepal earthquake They had searched for hours the previous night but found no sign of the little boy. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Baby rescued from Nepal earthquake Nepal has been devastated by a 7.8-magnitude earthquake that has left more than 5,000 people dead and more than 10,000 injured. Hide Caption 11 of 11MOVIE THEATER SHOOTING TRIALMoving testimony: A parade of victims testified yesterday, A parade of victims testified yesterday, painting a vivid, horrifying image of what happened inside the Aurora movie theater on July 2012 when James Holmes entered a midnight screening of "The Dark Knight Rises" and opened fire. A police officer fixated on Veronica Moser-Sullivan, the youngest victim. "I wasn't keeping a child in that crime scene," he said of the carnage all around her. A woman who was nine-months pregnant at the time of the shooting recounted realizing that her husband had been shot in the eye. He later had brain surgery while she delivered the baby. He survived, but with significant brain damage. The testimony prompted occasional weeping from victims, relatives and even some jury members.JUST WATCHED Aurora survivors forced to relive a nightmare Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Aurora survivors forced to relive a nightmare 02:37Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Just like the Masters: When you play a baseball game with no fans, the announcers call it like a golf tournament.Molten melon: What happens when you pour melted aluminum into a watermelon? Not what you expect.Watch out Adele: An 11-year-old girl rocks "Rolling in the Deep."Bugatti vs. Ferrari: Witness the most expensive fender bender ever."Oh my gosh": Huge hailstones pummel the windshield of some stormchasers in Texas.