Story highlights Katie Lenz suffered life-threatening injuries in an August 4 accidentA priest came and prayed over her while emergency workers tried to save herShe survived but, for days, no one could figure out who the priest wasHe told his story in the comments of an article on a Catholic websiteKatie Lentz finally knows the identity of the Catholic priest who came to her side during a life-threatening accident on a two-lane Missouri highway this month.Turns out, it was a Father Dowling mystery. The Rev. Patrick Dowling, that is.Dowling, a priest since 1982, revealed in a comment on a story posted on the National Catholic Register that he was the man who prayed over Lentz, 19, while emergency workers treated her for injuries after an August 4 accident.Dowling wrote in the comment , which has since been deleted: "I absolved and anointed Katie, and, at her request, prayed that her leg would not hurt. Then I stepped aside to where some rescue personnel and the pilot were waiting, and prayed the rosary silently."Dowling's presence had been a mystery because officials at the scene said it seemed as if he appeared from nowhere, couldn't be found in any pictures taken at the scene and left without anyone seeing where he went.The Rev. Patrick Dowling revealed his identity in a posting on a National Catholic Register website.Rescuers said the mysterious priest told them to be calm and their tools would now work.The priest said there really wasn't any mystery to it, and he told a deputy before he left who he was. He took no credit for saving Lentz's life. He credited that to the calm of two highway patrol officers and a rescue team that worked "harmoniously."The diocese of Jefferson City confirmed Dowling's account in a news release.JUST WATCHED Priest appears at crash site, then vanishes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Priest appears at crash site, then vanishes 02:55"Fr. Dowling said that he is pleased that he was able to help by performing his ministry and noted that that he was just one of many who responded to assist the victim at the accident," the statement said.Dowling was on the highway because another priest had called in sick, he wrote.His full comment was:I had Mass in Ewing MO as the regular priest was sick. As I was returning, I arrived at the scene. The authorities were redirecting traffic. I waited till it was possible to drive up closer. I parked behind a large vehicle about 150 yards from the scene. I asked the Sheriff's permission and approached the scene of the accident.I absolved and anointed Katie, and, at her request, prayed that her leg would not hurt. Then I stepped aside to where some rescue personnel and the pilot were waiting, and prayed the rosary silently. I left when the helicopter was about to take off, and before I got to my car it was on its way to Quincy.I was amazed at the calmness of the two Highway patrol men. The sergeant was completely in control, amazingly calm. Everybody worked as harmoniously as a Swiss watch despite the critical nature of the scene. I gave my name to one of the authorities, perhaps to the sergeant of Highway Patrol, explaining that I was returning having celebrated Mass at Ewing. It was the sergeant who, at the Sheriff's request, gave me Katie's name as I was leaving, so I could visit her in hospital -- I assumed she would be taken to Columbia.I think there may have been angels there too and, in this context, I congratulate the fire team from New London and Hannibal, the Sheriff/deputies of Ralls County, the Highway Patrol personnel, the helicopter team, the nurses and all who worked so professionally. God has blessed your work. I hope the credit goes where it is due.Dowling works in prison ministry and with Spanish-speaking parishioners, the diocese said.