Story highlights April 17 blast in Texas town killed 15 peopleRick Perry lauds the state appeal for a disaster declarationFEMA denied a request in June for a "major disaster" areaThe Obama administration has issued a disaster declaration for the Texas town hit by fertilizer plant blasts in April.The Federal Emergency Management Agency announced Friday aid for the area affected by the tragedy in the town of West.Federal funding will supplement state and local recovery efforts "for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the explosion in McLennan County," FEMA said.The April 17 fire led to simultaneous blasts at a fertilizer distribution facility, killing 15 and decimating homes, businesses and more within 37 blocks.This decision came after FEMA in June told Gov. Rick Perry it was denying a request to declare the small town a "major disaster" area, a move sharply criticized by local and state officials.The letter from FEMA spokesman Craig Fugate noted Obama had previously issued an emergency declaration and other measures that paved the way for some direct federal assistance.Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – U.S. President Barack Obama attends a memorial service at Baylor University in Waco, Texas, on April 25. The memorial was held for those killed in the blast at a Texas fertilizer plant. Fourteen people, nearly all first responders, died in an explosion at the West Fertilizer Co. on April 17. See photos from the explosion. Hide Caption 1 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Photos of the fallen firefighters stand next to their coffins at the memorial on April 25. Hide Caption 2 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Mourners at the memorial on April 25. Hide Caption 3 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Coffins containing the remains of victims from the fertilizer plant explosion in the town of West, Texas, at a memorial on April 25. Hide Caption 4 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A firefighters honor guard stands before the coffins of fallen comrades on April 25. Hide Caption 5 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Firefighters salute as fire trucks and emergency vehicles pass under a flag before the memorial service on April 25. Hide Caption 6 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Firefighters lead the funeral procession for Capt. Kenneth "Luckey" Harris Jr. on Thursday, April 24, in West, Texas. Hide Caption 7 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Firefighters stand on the back of a firetruck that transported Harris' body to the Bold Springs Cemetery in West on April 24. Hide Caption 8 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Family and friends stand in front of Harris' casket at the cemetery on April 24. Hide Caption 9 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A bugler plays taps at a memorial ceremony at the site of the explosion in West on April 24. Hide Caption 10 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Pallbearers carry the casket of fallen firefighter Capt. Kenneth "Luckey" Harris Jr. after his funeral at St. Mary's Catholic Church of the Assumption in West, Texas, on April 24. Hide Caption 11 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A memorial is set up on Monday, April 22, outside a fire station for the firemen who perished in the explosion. Hide Caption 12 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Flowers are tied on a firetruck on April 22 as a memorial for the firemen who died while responding to the explosion. Hide Caption 13 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Vanna Wainwright and her daughter Breanna take part in an open air Sunday service on April 21. Members of the First Baptist Church held their service in an open air field after their church was damaged from the explosion. Hide Caption 14 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Local residents attend a commemoration ceremony on April 21 for those that perished during the fertilizer explosion. Hide Caption 15 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Local residents attend a ceremony in West, Texas, on April 21. Hide Caption 16 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents embrace after a Sunday service at St. Mary's Catholic Church on April 21, four days after the deadly explosion. Hide Caption 17 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents collect donations on Saturday, April 20. Hide Caption 18 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A candlelight vigil is held at St. Mary's Catholic Church in West, Texas, on Thursday, April 18. Hide Caption 19 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Eric Garcia, 12, cries during a candlelight vigil in West, Texas, honoring the victims of the explosion on April 18. More than 200 people were injured and 50 homes destroyed in the small town. Hide Caption 20 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns – People gather for a candlelight vigil at a church in West on April 18. Hide Caption 21 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents tend a prayer service at St. Mary's. Hide Caption 22 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A girl closes her eyes during the vigil. Hide Caption 23 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A young mourner is comforted during the vigil on April 18. Hide Caption 24 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – People pray during a candlelight vigil at St. Mary's Church on April 18. Hide Caption 25 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents embrace after taking part in the vigil. Hide Caption 26 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A woman clasps her hands during the candlelight vigil on April 18. Hide Caption 27 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A young man holds a candle during the vigil. Hide Caption 28 of 28"Based on our review of all of the information available, it has been determined that the remaining costs for permanent work is within the capabilities of the state and affected local governments," Fugate said at the time. "Accordingly, we have determined that a major disaster declaration is not necessary."After the Friday announcement, Perry, who slammed the FEMA move two months ago, lauded a successful state appeal of the initial federal move."The approval of the state's appeal for a major disaster declaration is great and welcome news for the people of West," Perry said. "I appreciate everyone who joined me in standing with the people whose lives have been forever impacted to move this appeal forward, especially our congressional delegation."Perry said the federal action and the state legislature's disaster relief funding "will help this community rebuild their infrastructure, school district and public works as quickly as possible."A fire at the facility operated by West Fertilizer Company set off two explosions that registered on seismographs as a magnitude-2.1 earthquake and were felt 50 miles away. The blasts leveled a portion of the town, damaging numerous homes, a nursing home and the town's high school and middle school.According to local officials, the city is still well short of the $17 million it needs to repair roads, water and sewage lines and other damaged infrastructure.