Story highlights Mayor Bob Filner could resign over sexual harassment, local media reports18 women publicly have accused Filner of sexual harassmentA tentative agreement is reached after 3 days of mediation talksSan Diego Mayor Bob Filner, accused of sexually harassing women, will resign if the San Diego City Council accepts a proposed mediation agreement, local TV stations reported Thursday.The resignation would be effective Friday, according to the stations, including CNN affiliate KGTV."It is still our understanding that his resignation is part of the deal that the San Diego City Council needs to sign off on during tomorrow's closed session," an official familiar with the negotiations told CNN's Lindy Hall.The source emphasized that "until that happens, I don't believe you will see an official resignation."City Councilman Scott Sherman said he had not seen the agreement, but is hopeful it includes a resignation, KGTV reported.JUST WATCHED Reports: Bob Filner expected to resign Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Reports: Bob Filner expected to resign 02:10JUST WATCHED Accuser: Filner grabbed me in this photo Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Accuser: Filner grabbed me in this photo 02:27Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Photos: San Diego's scandalous past San Diego's scandalous past – The sexual harassment allegations against San Diego Mayor Bob Filner are not the first time this Pacific Coast city has seen scandal. Look back at some of the other political missteps, morasses and quagmires in which the city's politicians have found themselves: Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past City Hall has never been cheaper – San Diego's first mayor, Joshua Bean, reportedly sold City Hall and the land it sat on to himself and a drinking buddy for $2.50. He eventually deeded the property back to the city after a lawsuit and later resigned as mayor over a pay dispute. He was mayor from 1850 to 1851. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Oil scheme runs dry – Louis J. Wilde, who became mayor in 1917, ran a scheme where he encouraged residents to invest in $100 stock shares of the Community Oil company, which would drill for crude in the area. But the drilling never made good, and Wilde reportedly took in far more cash than he spent on the search, lining his pockets and leaving his investors as dry as the oil wells. He did not seek re-election. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Felony hit-and-run – Rutherford Irones, whose mayoral term only lasted six months, was convicted in 1935 of felony hit-and-run driving. He was driving a city-provided car while drunk and struck a car. Irones fled the scene, leaving the two people in the car he struck injured and without medical attention. He resigned as mayor and later served a six-month jail sentence. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Taxi scandal puts brakes on career – Frank Curran, who was mayor from 1963 to 1971, was indicted in 1970 after being accused of taking bribes from the Yellow Cab company to clear a taxi rate hike. A Superior Court jury cleared him of the charges, but his career never recovered. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Council no-show had to go – Jess Haro was appointed to fill an empty seat on the City Council, later winning an election. In 1978, he served 90 days for misdemeanor customs fraud resulting from the failure to report the true value of items he imported from Mexico. After he hit the city charter's limit of eight missed council meetings in a row, he was removed from office. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Caught up in campaign financing – Roger Hedgecock was elected as mayor in 1983 and resigned in 1986 over charges that he accepted illegal campaign donations and covered them up. The California Supreme Court threw out 12 felony perjury counts against him. He did plead guilty to one felony, which was later reduced to a misdemeanor and eventually expunged from his record. He is now a radio talk show host. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past A harassment case hush-hushed – Robert Spaulding, the city planning director, and Susan Bray, a planner who worked for him, were involved in a two-and-a-half year sexual relationship that ended in 1991. Bray filled a sexual harassment complaint against Spaulding saying she only participated because she feared for her job. A hush-hush settlement was arranged in such a way that the City Council wouldn't be informed. The whole thing eventually came out, forcing Spaulding to resign and costing the city more money to clean up the mess. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past The city will pick up that tab – Councilman Uvaldo Martinez resigned in 1986 after allegations that he used his city-issued credit card to treat himself and his friends to meals and drinks, claiming it was city business. He reimbursed the city just over $600 as part of his plea bargain, in addition to going on probation and performing community service. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Foul called in ballpark vote – Valerie Stallings stepped down from the City Council in 2001 after pleading guilty to misdemeanor charges. She was accused of accepting gifts from Padres owner John Moores while voting in favor of the downtown ballpark. Stalling maintains she did nothing wrong. Construction on the ballpark was halted while the charges were investigated by a federal grand jury. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Pinched in pension program – Dick Murphy was elected to two terms as San Diego's mayor starting in 2000. He resigned in 2005, only seven months into his second term, under accusations of financial mismanagement surrounding the city's pension program and after credit-rating agencies cutting the city's ability to borrow money. In addition, Time magazine named him one of the worst mayors in the country. His second run for mayor also sparked controversy, as thousands of write-in votes for his main competitor, Donna Frye, were disqualified over a technicality. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Stripped from office – Three days after Murphy resigned, two city councilmen, including then-acting mayor Michael Zucchet, were convicted of conspiracy, extortion and fraud. Zucchet, left, and Ralph Inzunza were convicted for taking campaign contributions in exchange for pushing the repeal of a city regulation that banned strip-club dancers from touching patrons. A third councilman, Charles Lewis, was also indicted, but he died before he could be brought to court. The regulation still stands, and there was never a vote on whether it should be repealed. Hide Caption 12 of 12"The quicker he's out of office, the quicker it is to get back into city business," Sherman told the station.Filner has been under intense pressure to resign in the wake of allegations of serial sexual harassment of women, including inappropriate touching, kissing and comments.He has acknowledged improper conduct and recently underwent therapy. But he has previously resisted the resignation demands, saying his conduct was not enough to force him from office.He even has been locked out of his City Hall office, though Filner indicated in a statement that he returned to work as mayor in that very office on Wednesday.That was the same day that, according to Filner and others involved, three days of mediation talks yielded a tentative agreement.City councilors and others have been reluctant publicly to divulge details on the deal, given the guidelines set by the judge overseeing the mediation talks.Filner, for example, said in a statement Thursday, "Due to the confidential nature of mediation and settlement discussions, we are unable to comment or make statements about any of the terms." City Council President Todd Gloria, who is among the nine City Council members calling for a resignation, was similarly tight-lipped.But that should change sometime after the City Council meets -- after a public comment period -- in a closed session around 1 p.m. (4 p.m. ET) Friday to decide on whatever pact is on the table."The business of the city of San Diego is being pushed forward as best we can," Councilman Kevin Faulconer said, adding that the last seven weeks have been "very difficult" but haven't stopped the city government from functioning. "We love our city."Whatever the final deal is, lawyer Gloria Allred -- who represents Filner's former communications chief Irene McCormack Jackson, who has filed a sexual harassment lawsuit against her former boss, and who has spoken alongside several other accusers -- said Thursday that she hopes it includes not only his resignation, but no future payments to him for legal fees or otherwise."There should be no payoff for Mayor Filner," Allred told reporters Thursday. "His parting gift should be good riddance instead of a handout."Allred said that while she took part in the mediation talks, neither she nor her client signed off on any deal, nor did she have details on it. She stressed that Jackson has not dropped her case against Filner, saying, "Our lawsuit is not settled."News of the reported mediation agreement comes after yet another woman came forward to accuse Filner.Businesswoman Dianne York told CNN that Filner put his hands on her buttocks during a photo opportunity that followed a meeting three months ago. York said there were witnesses to what happened. She said both her advisers and Filner's were in the room at the time.York is the 18th woman to accuse Filner of improper conduct.Jackson quit her job and sued the mayor in July, saying he subjected women to "crude and disgusting" comments and inappropriate touching.Other women have accused him of touching their buttocks and putting them in a headlock and trying to kiss them, among other allegations.And amid the storm of allegations, Bronwyn Ingram ended her engagement to Filner. She had campaigned alongside him during his run for mayor, and was known -- even though the two weren't married -- as the "first lady" of San Diego before ending their relationship.But speaking Thursday alongside Allred in her first public comments since the scandal broke, Ingram said she now wants Filner to resign as mayor."I'm hopeful that tomorrow will begin a healing process," Ingram told reporters, "and that attention will return to the needs of the people."