Story highlights Beaver Creek Fire has scorched more than 100,000 acresHalf a foot of rain soaks southern Mississippi, floods GulfportRip currents drown elderly couple, rescue official saidThe stubborn Beaver Creek wildfire has 1,200 firefighters toiling tirelessly in Idaho to keep it from spreading.The wildfire scorching Sun Valley, Idaho, has already consumed more than 100,000 acres, and threatened 5,000 homes.Sun Valley is home to many pricey spreads, including second homes reportedly owned by actors Tom Hanks and Bruce Willis.Lightning ignited the fire more than two weeks ago. Over the weekend, firefighters benefited from cloud cover and higher humidity. But they only managed to establish 9% by early Monday morning.The forecast for the next couple of days brings both good and bad news.The rain from thunderstorms could help quench the flames, while lightning might spark new fires.Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Idaho wildfires – Firefighters with private contract company Great Basin Fire douse part of the 104,457-acre Beaver Creek Fire in the Baker Creek area of Ketchum, Idaho, on Monday, August 19. The fire has forced the evacuation of several neighborhoods. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Idaho wildfires – Charlie Pomeroy, left, Stacey Ward, Rusty Hollinger and Suzy Hayes watch a sky crane fill up on fire retardant on August 19. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Idaho wildfires – Firefighter Gerard House talks to reporters in the Baker Creek area of Ketchum, Idaho, on August 19. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Idaho wildfires – A helicopter drops fire retardant to protect homes outside Ketchum, Idaho, from the Beaver Creek Fire on Sunday, August 18. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Photos: Idaho wildfires – A firefighting team walks along a fire line near homes on Croy Road and the Rotorun ski hill west of Hailey, Idaho, on Saturday, August 17. A wildfire raging across the central mountains of Idaho forced the evacuation of 200 homes in the tourist town of Hailey as firefighters lost ground against a blaze threatening the nearby international ski destination of Sun Valley. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Photos: Idaho wildfires – A tanker helicopter drops water as a firefighter works to douse a hot spot at Beaver Creek on August 17. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Idaho wildfires – Firefighters continue to battle the fire in the Wood River Valley as it drops down a canyon hillside west of Hailey on August 17. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Idaho wildfires – Firefighters clear an area burned by the Beaver Creek Fire on August 17. Approximately 1,200 firefighters are working the blaze, with the help of helicopters, bulldozers and conventional engines. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Photos: Idaho wildfires – A helicopter makes a drop while battling the Beaver Creek Fire on August 17. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Photos: Idaho wildfires – Fire creeps down the western canyon wall above the Wood River in Hailey, Idaho, on August 17. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Idaho wildfires – A helicopter battles the flames near Hailey on Friday, August 16. The Beaver Creek Fire was ignited by lightning on August 7. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Idaho wildfires – A fire "whirl" can be seen as erratic wind conditions stir the flames of the fire on August 16. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Idaho wildfires – Kevin Bullock, of Bellevue, Idaho, talks on a cell phone as smoke from the wildfire envelops a neighborhood. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Idaho wildfires – John Koth climbs to the roof of a neighbor's house near Hailey to photograph the blaze on August 16. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Photos: Idaho wildfires Idaho wildfires – Members of the Idaho City Hotshots work on burn-out operations around Pine, where the Elk Complex fire was burning on August 14. Hide Caption 15 of 15JUST WATCHED Rain swamps Gulf Coast, Southeast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rain swamps Gulf Coast, Southeast 00:58Gov. Butch Otter had nothing but praise for the crews."They look the worst for wear but you see that smile come across their face and their attitude about how they're being treated and how they're being supported by our local folks, by the county folks, the city folks (and) the state department of lands," he said.Academy Award-winning actor Richard Dreyfus was among those expressing gratitude.The fire isn't the only one burning up Idaho.At least nine large fires have scorched 407,883 acres across Idaho, which is experiencing the most wildland fire activity of any state, according to the Boise-based National Interagency Fire Center.Meanwhile, a brush fire in Polk County, Oregon, destroyed a family's private vineyard. Its cause? Fire officials believe the owner hit rocks witha lawn mower sparking it."That ignited the area around him, and before they could contain it, it started spreading, and as you can tell by the wind up here, it didn't take long for it to spread," Bill Hahn, fire chief of Southwest Polk, told CNN affiliate KOIN.Soggy SouthMeanwhile, a stalled front stretching along the Gulf and Southeast Coasts will bring heavy rain through early this week, fueled by abundant moisture from the Gulf of Mexico.Flood watches and warnings are in place from the Florida panhandle to the Carolinas. Soils in this region are saturated, creating a potential for flash floods.Six inches of rain soaked southern Mississippi Sunday, leaving First United Gospel Assembly church in Gulfport surrounded by waist-deep water."We were in service and we came out and it was flooded out here," Bishop Otis Rankin who told CNN affiliate WLOX , looking across the church parking lot.The only worse flooding, he said, was Hurricane Katrina in 2005."We're in a low lying area, so it floods from time to time, but I got up and there was actually two inches of water in the den," he said. "So we grabbed all the towels we could and started sopping up what we could."Rip currentsIn South Florida, strong onshore winds and choppy surf stirred up rip currents throughout the weekend in South Florida, drowning an elderly couple off Miami Beach.Police said it was one of 50 incidents where swimmers had to rescued from the rough waters.The couple were swimming with a red float, appearing fine one minute and under water the next, witnesses told CNN affiliate WSVNBeachgoers along with Ocean Rescue guards rushed to pull them from the water, according to WSVN."They were in cardiac arrest when fire rescue arrived," said Capt. Adonis Garcia, spokesman for Miami Beach Fire Rescue. "We worked them all the way to the hospital at Mount Sinai when they were pronounced dead."