Story highlights Bob Filner is believed to be back in the city he governs after a stint in rehabThe mayor said he would start a two-week program on August 5 but started earlierA growing tide of women are making sexual harassment allegations against himReports: Mayor's chief of staff changed his office locks to preserve potential evidenceSan Diego Mayor Bob Filner, facing a growing tide of sexual harassment allegations, has completed his two-week intensive behavior therapy a week early and will begin outpatient treatment, his lawyer said.But he might not be back at work in his office any time soon. His chief of staff changed the locks, according to numerous reports, including one by CNN affiliate KFMBAttorney James Payne said in a statement that Filner began treatment on July 29, a week before the mayor previously told reporters he would start. Filner was to complete that phase of treatment Saturday, Payne said.In the same statement, Payne said Filner would take some personal time this week and would not be available for comment.It is unclear when Filner will return to work, but he is believed to be back in the city he governs after his rehab stint.An increasing number of women are saying that Filner inappropriately touched them, prompting his chief of staff to resign and fellow Democrats to call for him to step down.In a personal letter to the mayor Friday, Democratic Sen. Barbara Boxer, who addresses Filner as "Bob," wrote: "We've known each other for a long time. ... So I am speaking to you now on a personal and professional level, and asking you to step down as mayor and get the help you need as a private citizen."JUST WATCHED San Diego mayor's history kept quiet? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH San Diego mayor's history kept quiet? 02:36Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Photos: San Diego's scandalous past San Diego's scandalous past – The sexual harassment allegations against San Diego Mayor Bob Filner are not the first time this Pacific Coast city has seen scandal. Look back at some of the other political missteps, morasses and quagmires in which the city's politicians have found themselves: Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past City Hall has never been cheaper – San Diego's first mayor, Joshua Bean, reportedly sold City Hall and the land it sat on to himself and a drinking buddy for $2.50. He eventually deeded the property back to the city after a lawsuit and later resigned as mayor over a pay dispute. He was mayor from 1850 to 1851. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Oil scheme runs dry – Louis J. Wilde, who became mayor in 1917, ran a scheme where he encouraged residents to invest in $100 stock shares of the Community Oil company, which would drill for crude in the area. But the drilling never made good, and Wilde reportedly took in far more cash than he spent on the search, lining his pockets and leaving his investors as dry as the oil wells. He did not seek re-election. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Felony hit-and-run – Rutherford Irones, whose mayoral term only lasted six months, was convicted in 1935 of felony hit-and-run driving. He was driving a city-provided car while drunk and struck a car. Irones fled the scene, leaving the two people in the car he struck injured and without medical attention. He resigned as mayor and later served a six-month jail sentence. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Taxi scandal puts brakes on career – Frank Curran, who was mayor from 1963 to 1971, was indicted in 1970 after being accused of taking bribes from the Yellow Cab company to clear a taxi rate hike. A Superior Court jury cleared him of the charges, but his career never recovered. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Council no-show had to go – Jess Haro was appointed to fill an empty seat on the City Council, later winning an election. In 1978, he served 90 days for misdemeanor customs fraud resulting from the failure to report the true value of items he imported from Mexico. After he hit the city charter's limit of eight missed council meetings in a row, he was removed from office. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Caught up in campaign financing – Roger Hedgecock was elected as mayor in 1983 and resigned in 1986 over charges that he accepted illegal campaign donations and covered them up. The California Supreme Court threw out 12 felony perjury counts against him. He did plead guilty to one felony, which was later reduced to a misdemeanor and eventually expunged from his record. He is now a radio talk show host. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past A harassment case hush-hushed – Robert Spaulding, the city planning director, and Susan Bray, a planner who worked for him, were involved in a two-and-a-half year sexual relationship that ended in 1991. Bray filled a sexual harassment complaint against Spaulding saying she only participated because she feared for her job. A hush-hush settlement was arranged in such a way that the City Council wouldn't be informed. The whole thing eventually came out, forcing Spaulding to resign and costing the city more money to clean up the mess. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past The city will pick up that tab – Councilman Uvaldo Martinez resigned in 1986 after allegations that he used his city-issued credit card to treat himself and his friends to meals and drinks, claiming it was city business. He reimbursed the city just over $600 as part of his plea bargain, in addition to going on probation and performing community service. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Foul called in ballpark vote – Valerie Stallings stepped down from the City Council in 2001 after pleading guilty to misdemeanor charges. She was accused of accepting gifts from Padres owner John Moores while voting in favor of the downtown ballpark. Stalling maintains she did nothing wrong. Construction on the ballpark was halted while the charges were investigated by a federal grand jury. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Pinched in pension program – Dick Murphy was elected to two terms as San Diego's mayor starting in 2000. He resigned in 2005, only seven months into his second term, under accusations of financial mismanagement surrounding the city's pension program and after credit-rating agencies cutting the city's ability to borrow money. In addition, Time magazine named him one of the worst mayors in the country. His second run for mayor also sparked controversy, as thousands of write-in votes for his main competitor, Donna Frye, were disqualified over a technicality. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Stripped from office – Three days after Murphy resigned, two city councilmen, including then-acting mayor Michael Zucchet, were convicted of conspiracy, extortion and fraud. Zucchet, left, and Ralph Inzunza were convicted for taking campaign contributions in exchange for pushing the repeal of a city regulation that banned strip-club dancers from touching patrons. A third councilman, Charles Lewis, was also indicted, but he died before he could be brought to court. The regulation still stands, and there was never a vote on whether it should be repealed. Hide Caption 12 of 12California's other senator, Democrat Dianne Feinstein, has also asked Filner to resign.Eleven women have now accused Filner, 70, of sexual harassment while he was mayor or a congressman.The latest is nurse Michelle Tyler , who said Tuesday that Filner rubbed her arm in his office and asked for dinner dates in June in exchange for his helping a brain-injured Iraq war veteran. She said Filner told her he wanted to kiss her.While Filner acknowledged last month that "I need help" and said "I'm clearly doing something wrong," he has also said he believes he will be vindicated when all the facts come out. The mayor has vowed not to resign.The idea that Filner has now completed rehab and could come back to lead San Diego did not sit well with many of his constituents."It's ridiculous," said Gary Sehnert, a San Diego resident. "Why is this continuing?""Really mayor? You did what you did and now you want to stay as mayor," said William Sawaya, another San Diego resident. "(Expletive), you're not staying as mayor."Filner served 10 terms, or 20 years, in Congress before being elected mayor of San Diego last year.