Story highlights A nurse and a brain-injured Iraq War vet meet with mayor in his office in JuneMayor Bob Filner allegedly asks everyone to leave his office, except the nurseMayor asks for dates from nurse Michelle Tyler in exchange for his help, she saysNurse is 11th woman to allege sexual harassment against mayor, who's now in therapyA nurse Tuesday accused San Diego Bob Filner of rubbing her arm in his office and asking for dinner dates in June in exchange for his helping a brain-injured Iraq War veteran.The allegations make her the 11th woman this summer to accuse Filner of sexual harassment while he was mayor or a congressman. Filner, who this week began intensive counseling f or his behavior with women, couldn't be immediately reached for comment."I felt that his rubbing my arm and telling me to relax and making me feel that help for Katherine was contingent on my going out with him was extremely inappropriate and unacceptable," Michelle Tyler, a licensed vocational nurse, told reporters at a San Diego press conference where she was accompanied by her attorney, Gloria Allred.Tyler was the caregiver to Katherine Ragazzino, a Marine injured in Iraq, who was seeking Filner's assistance in negotiating problems with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs for her traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder.Ragazzino was homeless during her post-war ordeal and now resides with Tyler, Allred said.Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Photos: San Diego's scandalous past San Diego's scandalous past – The sexual harassment allegations against San Diego Mayor Bob Filner are not the first time this Pacific Coast city has seen scandal. Look back at some of the other political missteps, morasses and quagmires in which the city's politicians have found themselves: Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past City Hall has never been cheaper – San Diego's first mayor, Joshua Bean, reportedly sold City Hall and the land it sat on to himself and a drinking buddy for $2.50. He eventually deeded the property back to the city after a lawsuit and later resigned as mayor over a pay dispute. He was mayor from 1850 to 1851. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Oil scheme runs dry – Louis J. Wilde, who became mayor in 1917, ran a scheme where he encouraged residents to invest in $100 stock shares of the Community Oil company, which would drill for crude in the area. But the drilling never made good, and Wilde reportedly took in far more cash than he spent on the search, lining his pockets and leaving his investors as dry as the oil wells. He did not seek re-election. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Felony hit-and-run – Rutherford Irones, whose mayoral term only lasted six months, was convicted in 1935 of felony hit-and-run driving. He was driving a city-provided car while drunk and struck a car. Irones fled the scene, leaving the two people in the car he struck injured and without medical attention. He resigned as mayor and later served a six-month jail sentence. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Taxi scandal puts brakes on career – Frank Curran, who was mayor from 1963 to 1971, was indicted in 1970 after being accused of taking bribes from the Yellow Cab company to clear a taxi rate hike. A Superior Court jury cleared him of the charges, but his career never recovered. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Council no-show had to go – Jess Haro was appointed to fill an empty seat on the City Council, later winning an election. In 1978, he served 90 days for misdemeanor customs fraud resulting from the failure to report the true value of items he imported from Mexico. After he hit the city charter's limit of eight missed council meetings in a row, he was removed from office. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Caught up in campaign financing – Roger Hedgecock was elected as mayor in 1983 and resigned in 1986 over charges that he accepted illegal campaign donations and covered them up. The California Supreme Court threw out 12 felony perjury counts against him. He did plead guilty to one felony, which was later reduced to a misdemeanor and eventually expunged from his record. He is now a radio talk show host. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past A harassment case hush-hushed – Robert Spaulding, the city planning director, and Susan Bray, a planner who worked for him, were involved in a two-and-a-half year sexual relationship that ended in 1991. Bray filled a sexual harassment complaint against Spaulding saying she only participated because she feared for her job. A hush-hush settlement was arranged in such a way that the City Council wouldn't be informed. The whole thing eventually came out, forcing Spaulding to resign and costing the city more money to clean up the mess. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past The city will pick up that tab – Councilman Uvaldo Martinez resigned in 1986 after allegations that he used his city-issued credit card to treat himself and his friends to meals and drinks, claiming it was city business. He reimbursed the city just over $600 as part of his plea bargain, in addition to going on probation and performing community service. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Foul called in ballpark vote – Valerie Stallings stepped down from the City Council in 2001 after pleading guilty to misdemeanor charges. She was accused of accepting gifts from Padres owner John Moores while voting in favor of the downtown ballpark. Stalling maintains she did nothing wrong. Construction on the ballpark was halted while the charges were investigated by a federal grand jury. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Pinched in pension program – Dick Murphy was elected to two terms as San Diego's mayor starting in 2000. He resigned in 2005, only seven months into his second term, under accusations of financial mismanagement surrounding the city's pension program and after credit-rating agencies cutting the city's ability to borrow money. In addition, Time magazine named him one of the worst mayors in the country. His second run for mayor also sparked controversy, as thousands of write-in votes for his main competitor, Donna Frye, were disqualified over a technicality. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: San Diego's scandalous past Stripped from office – Three days after Murphy resigned, two city councilmen, including then-acting mayor Michael Zucchet, were convicted of conspiracy, extortion and fraud. Zucchet, left, and Ralph Inzunza were convicted for taking campaign contributions in exchange for pushing the repeal of a city regulation that banned strip-club dancers from touching patrons. A third councilman, Charles Lewis, was also indicted, but he died before he could be brought to court. The regulation still stands, and there was never a vote on whether it should be repealed. Hide Caption 12 of 12The alleged incident occurred June 11 when Tyler, Ragazzino and a veteran's representative were in Filner's office, and then Filner asked to meet alone with Tyler, telling Ragazzino and the veteran's representative: "Please step out, you don't need to hear this," Allred said.Then Tyler was alone with the mayor in his office."The mayor sat back in his chair and said, 'Wow, you are really magnificent.' The mayor started rubbing Ms. Tyler's arm and stated 'Relax, you are incredible. I will help your veteran. I want you to go out to dinner with me and spend time with me,'" Allred said.Filner allegedly asked Tyler if she was married, and she replied she was in the middle of a divorce. The mayor allegedly replied, "Good," according to Allred.Filner then allegedly referred to Tyler's paperwork requesting the meeting and asked, "Is that your phone number that I can call you at?" Allred said.Stunned, Tyler responded, "I am here to focus on Katherine," according to Allred.Filner allegedly persisted and said, "I am going to help her but I would really like to be seen in public with you, you are really something," Allred said.Filner allegedly asked Tyler, "Will you go to dinner with me if I help your Marine? Can I call you?" according to Allred.Tyler said she needed to leave his office, but the mayor allegedly told her, "If we were not here in my office, I would like to kiss you," Allred said.After telling the mayor he should focus on Ragazzino's issues, Tyler stood up and left his office, and the mayor allegedly said on her way out, "I am going to call you," Allred said.Tyler and Ragazzino, who have known each other since 2004, first met with Filner when he was a congressman in 2011, and "he encouraged us to seek him out again if appropriate corrective measures were not taken by the VA," Ragazzino said.Ragazzino was injured in Iraq and spent 18 months in a hospital as a result of her traumatic brain injury. She and Allred declined to elaborate on the injury.At one point, Ragazzino was living in her car, and her problems with the VA about her disability "seriously affected my healing process," she said.After discharged from the Marines, Ragazzino was "at rock bottom and pushing everyone away" because of the brain injury and post-traumatic stress, she said.Ragazzino said she felt "deeply disappointed and upset" by Filner's alleged misconduct toward Tyler."I don't appreciate being used as a bargaining chip to fulfill his sexual desires," Ragazzino said.Said Tyler: "It was extremely disturbing to me that he made it very clear to me that his expectation was that his help for Katherine depended on my willingness to go to dinner with him, spend personal time with him and be seen in public with him."Tyler and Ragazzino are asking the city attorney to investigate the mayor for sexual harassment.Tyler doesn't have plans to file any civil lawsuit, Allred said.During Tuesday's press conference, Allred displayed a warning sign that she said should be displayed out the mayor's office: "Danger. Warning to women. Keep out. Keep out. Mayor is in his office. Proceed at your own risk."Earlier this summer, when the allegations against him emerged, Filner acknowledged "I need help," and added, "I'm clearly doing something wrong.""I am embarrassed to admit that I have failed to fully respect the women who work for me and with me, and that at times I have intimidated them. It's a good thing that behavior that would have been tolerated in the past is being called out in this generation for what it is: inappropriate and wrong," he said in a statement issued July 11.But Filner, 70, has also said he believes he will be vindicated by "a full presentation of the facts" and he will not resign, though alleged victims have so asked.Filner served 10 terms, or 20 years, in Congress before being elected mayor in 2012. Many of the accusations come from his time as a congressman.