(CNN) An Arizona man described as a person of interest in police search warrants following the Las Vegas mass shooting in October says he sold ammunition to attacker Stephen Paddock .Douglas Haig told CNN affiliate KNXV on Tuesday that he was identified as a person of interest following the massacre that left 58 people dead at a country music festival outside the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino."I'm the guy that sold ammunition to Stephen Paddock," Haig told the TV station outside his home in Mesa. He declined to provide additional details, saying he will answer questions at a news conference Friday with his attorney.Haig did not respond to CNN calls Tuesday evening. Las Vegas police officials told CNN the department cannot comment on Haig or any names, and referred CNN to federal authorities.Haig told CBS he sold Paddock 720 rounds of tracer ammunition from a business he ran out of his house until a few months ago.JUST WATCHED Man who sold Vegas shooter ammo speaks out Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man who sold Vegas shooter ammo speaks out 01:00"He told me exactly what he wanted. I handed him a box with the ammunition in it and he paid me and he left," Haig told CBS, adding that he didn't detect anything odd about Paddock. "He said he was going to go put on a light show. I can't remember if he said for or with his friends. But that's what he did say."A judge in Nevada unsealed search warrant records Tuesday that mentioned a second person of interest in the case but redacted the name. The killer's girlfriend, Marilou Danley, had been identified earlier as a person of interest but has since been publicly cleared.The Las Vegas Review-Journal identified Haig on Tuesday as the second person of interest, which led to his confirmation to reporters. While Danley and Haig were named by law enforcement as persons of interest in search warrant affidavits, neither has been charged with a crime.Days after the shooting, Haig told Newsweek that agents from the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives interviewed him but said he had nothing to do with the crime.Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Debris is scattered on the ground Monday, October 2, at the site of a country music festival held this past weekend in Las Vegas. Dozens of people were killed and hundreds were injured Sunday when a gunman opened fire on the crowd. Police said the gunman fired from the Mandalay Bay hotel, several hundred feet southwest of the concert grounds. It is the deadliest mass shooting in modern US history. Hide Caption 1 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Broken windows of the Mandalay Bay are seen early in Las Vegas on Monday. Police said the gunman fired on the crowd from the 32nd floor of the hotel. Hide Caption 2 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People cross a street near the Las Vegas Strip just after sunrise on Monday. Thousands were attending the music festival, Route 91 Harvest, when the shooting started. Hide Caption 3 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People embrace outside the Thomas & Mack Center after the shooting. Hide Caption 4 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Police arrive at the Sands Corporation plane hangar where some people ran to safety after the shooting. Hide Caption 5 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A woman cries while hiding inside the Sands Corporation plane hangar. Hide Caption 6 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Concertgoers dive over a fence to take cover from gunfire on Sunday night. Hide Caption 7 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Police take position outside the Mandalay Bay. Hide Caption 8 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A man lays on top of a woman as others flee the festival grounds. The woman reportedly got up from the scene. Hide Caption 9 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Hide Caption 10 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People are seen on the ground after the gunman opened fire. Hide Caption 11 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People run from the festival grounds. Hide Caption 12 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A woman is moved outside the Las Vegas Tropicana resort. Multiple victims were being transported to hospitals in the aftermath of the shooting. Hide Caption 13 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People are searched by police at the Tropicana. Hide Caption 14 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival An ambulance leaves the intersection of Las Vegas Boulevard and Tropicana Avenue. Hide Caption 15 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A man in a wheelchair is evacuated from the festival after gunfire was heard. Hide Caption 16 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Victims of the shooting are tended to in the street. Hide Caption 17 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Concertgoers help an injured person at the scene. Hide Caption 18 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People gather around a victim outside the festival grounds. Hide Caption 19 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A couple huddles after shots rang out at the festival. Hide Caption 20 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival An injured woman is helped at the Tropicana. Hide Caption 21 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Police and emergency responders gather at the intersection of Las Vegas Boulevard and Tropicana Avenue. Hide Caption 22 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A police officer takes position behind a truck. Hide Caption 23 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A crowd takes cover at the festival grounds. Hide Caption 24 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Police officers advise people to take cover in the wake of the shooting. Hide Caption 25 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People tend to a victim at the festival grounds. Hide Caption 26 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Police stand at the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 27 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A woman sits on a curb at the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 28 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Police are deployed to the scene. Hide Caption 29 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A man makes a phone call as people run from the festival grounds. Hide Caption 30 of 30"I've been interviewed, and that's as far as it went. They were following up on a lead, and obviously it went nowhere," he told Newsweek.Douglas Haig is also the name of a business associate on a website called Specialized Military Ammunition. The website describes itself as "your source for premium, MILSPEC, tracer and incendiary ammunition in popular military calibers," including ammunition that "ignites diesel and kerosene."It's unclear whether it's the same person. A message posted on the website says it will be closed indefinitely."Check back to see if/when we are up and running again," the undated message says.Clark County District Court Judge Elissa Cadish ordered the documents released after CNN and other media outlets sued to obtain the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department search warrants related to the October 1 shooting.The judge allowed a small portion of those records to be redacted because "there is an ongoing investigation regarding charges against another individual, arising out of information obtained in connection with the ... shooting, but not directly related to the shooting."In response to a question from CNN this month, Sheriff Joe Lombardo said another person is under investigation by federal authorities. That person could face federal charges not directly related to the shooting within the next 60 days, the sheriff said January 19.Lombardo didn't disclose the person's name, saying those details were "under federal grand jury disclosure" rules.He has repeatedly said Paddock was the only shooter to open fire from the Mandalay Bay hotel onto more than 20,000 people attending the music festival. Paddock died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.Hundreds of pages of federal court records and search warrant affidavits unsealed this month revealed the inner workings of the early stages of the investigation.