(CNN) Still lining up your 2018 vacation plans? Here are 12 places you might want to skip . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Government shutdownThe shutdown showdown is over ... for now. President Trump signed a bill last night that ends three days of deadlock and keeps federal funds flowing through February 8. Senate Democrats ended the shutdown after getting assurances from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell that the GOP will pursue action on immigration, including possible work on a DACA fix. The Dems' liberal wing is furious about this. They think Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer caved and gave up all the leverage they had to help the Dreamers.Plus, they say there's no guarantee that whatever the Senate comes up with on immigration will be taken up in the House, which is full of hard-line GOP members opposed to any DACA deal. CNN's Stephen Collinson says that yes, getting out of the shutdown so quickly is a win for President Trump, but it only delays what will be one of the biggest decisions of his young presidency: whether to let 700,000 people brought to the US as children without proper documents stay.2. IsraelThe US embassy may move to Israel a lot faster than we first thought. Vice President Mike Pence told Israel's parliament that the embassy would be moved from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem by the end of next year , after officials earlier said it would take three to four years. President Trump upended decades of US policy , inflamed tensions in the region and sparked outrage across the world when he said last month that the US recognizes Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. The recognition complicates the Mideast peace process because Palestinians also consider the city their capital.JUST WATCHED Holy land Christians snub VP Mike Pence Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Holy land Christians snub VP Mike Pence 03:243. USA GymnasticsTop executives of USA Gymnastics stepped down as the sentencing hearing for ex-gymnastics physician Larry Nassar continues. Chairman Paul Parilla, Vice Chairman Jay Binder and Treasurer Bitsy Kelley all resigned from the USA Gymnastics board of directors, and the organization's president said the resignations will help the group implement changes. Nassar is to be sentenced this week after pleading guilty to seven counts of criminal sexual conduct. He's admitted to assaulting young women under his care, including the more than 140 brave girls and young women who are speaking out during his sentencingJUST WATCHED Watch Aly Raisman confront Nassar in court Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch Aly Raisman confront Nassar in court 01:354. TSAThe Transportation Security Administration is rolling out a stricter screening program for air cargo into the US from five Mideast countries. Cargo from seven airports in Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates will be subject to additional screening. Those countries were picked because terror groups indicate they want to attack airplanes and other aviation targets from there, the TSA said.Photos: TSA is looking at your 'micro-expressions' Passengers at a security checkpoint in John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York. The Transportation Security Administration has a program called SPOT that lets behavior detection officers screen passengers' facial expressions for potential malicious intent. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: TSA is looking at your 'micro-expressions' Charlotte Douglas International Airport in Charlotte, North Carolina. Hugh Handeyside says there's no evidence that deception or "mal-intent" can reliably be detected through observation, especially in an unstructured setting like an airport screening area. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: TSA is looking at your 'micro-expressions' People at security lines in Denver International Airport. The SPOT program officers typically spend less than 30 seconds scanning an average passenger for over 90 behaviors that the TSA say are linked to stress, fear or deception. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: TSA is looking at your 'micro-expressions' A TSA officer hands a passenger his identification at a security checkpoint at Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: TSA is looking at your 'micro-expressions' A passenger goes through security at LaGuardia Airport in New York. TSA officers' perception of people's behaviors is inherently subjective, Handeyside says. The fact that many people find airport settings inherently stressful only compounds the problem. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: TSA is looking at your 'micro-expressions' John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York. Just about everyone outside the TSA who has reviewed the SPOT program has decided that it's unscientific and a waste of money, Handeyside says. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: TSA is looking at your 'micro-expressions' Travelers walk through security past a mural at Denver International Airport. Despite the criticisms, SPOT remains in place and has cost taxpayers well over $1 billion since its inception in 2007. The SPOT program should be terminated, Handeyside says. Hide Caption 7 of 75. Pope FrancisPope Francis apologized to sex abuse victims for comments he made defending an embattled bishop. Francis had said last week that there was no "proof" of wrongdoing against Chilean Bishop Juan Barros, who is accused of covering up for a priest convicted of sexual abuse. Supporters of victims of clerical sex abuse challenged his suggestion that "proof" is a prerequisite for believing a victim's account. Francis said he was sorry and that it was a poor choice of words, but he maintained his defense of Barros.JUST WATCHED Pope Francis: 'God weeps' for abuse victims (2017) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pope Francis: 'God weeps' for abuse victims (2017) 01:18QUOTE OF THE DAY"And every friend that I know has a story like mine."Singer Halsey, who moved the crowd at New York's Women's March with her poem recounting her experiences with sexual assaultJUST WATCHED Singer recounts her experiences with assault Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Singer recounts her experiences with assault 04:40BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Music masterHugh Masekela was more than a musician. The father of South African jazz provided a soundtrack to the '80s anti-apartheid movement. He died at age 78.JUST WATCHED Jazz legend Hugh Masekela dies at 78 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jazz legend Hugh Masekela dies at 78 00:35Bottoms upCome hang out at the Portland, Maine, bar that's famous for not serving alcohol.Off the roadCrushing news for music fans: Singing legend Neil Diamond has Parkinson's disease , and he's retiring from touring.Out over inclusivityShe made history wearing a hijab in a hair care ad campaign. Now, she's out -- over old tweets she wrote dissing IsraelLove is in the airPrince Harry and Meghan Markle aren't the only royal couple getting hitched this year. Princess Eugenie is tying the knot , too, with her longtime boyfriend.JUST WATCHED Another royal wedding in 2018 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Another royal wedding in 2018 00:53WHAT'S FOR LUNCHOscar nominationsAcademy Award nominations come out this morning. Sunday's SAG Awards gave us some hints on how things might go.JUST WATCHED SAG Awards in under 2 minutes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH SAG Awards in under 2 minutes 00:10NUMBERS OF THE DAY$39 millionThat's how much Netflix lost when it cut ties with Kevin SpaceyJUST WATCHED 'Family Guy' joked about Kevin Spacey in 2005 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Family Guy' joked about Kevin Spacey in 2005 01:2561%Former President George W. Bush's approval rating now . It was just 33% when he left office in 2009.JUST WATCHED Life after the White House Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Life after the White House 06:17AND FINALLY ...Tricky Tuesday