Story highlights Storms caused 38 deaths since Sunday; 67-year-old woman killed in FloridaTornado that struck Mayflower and Vilonia, Arkansas, Sunday was an EF-4Alabama official: Residents scrambled to rooftops as water rushed inNational Weather Service: The rainfall at Pensacola's airport set a recordFrom building-crushing hurricanes to killer sinkholes, Gulf Coast residents have seen a lot. But even these battle-tested veterans of the weather wars are marveling at torrential rains that washed out bridges and roads, sent chest-high water into homes and forced major military bases to shut down Wednesday."We've seen flooding before, but never flooding that washes the back of a house away," said CNN iReporter Matt Raybourn of Pensacola, Florida. "There are no words for what we are seeing here."The rushing waters reduced some streets to rubble, gouged huge gashes in others and left stretches of many others submerged, including parts U.S. 98, the main east-west route along the coast. It was closed in several places between Fort Walton Beach and Panama City. Abandoned cars sat half-submerged along the highway.Along the coast, water pushed ashore by wind-driven waves and unusually high tides lapped at sand dunes as red flags warned swimmers to stay out of the water.There was one drowning death tied to the flooding, Florida officials said. The victim, a 67-year-old woman, drove or was swept into a drainage ditch Tuesday night, Escambia County spokeswoman Kathleen Castro said.In Alabama, waters rushed in so fast that residents climbed on top of furniture and waited on rooftops to be rescued, said Reggie Chitwood, deputy director of emergency management in Baldwin County."The waters rose at a historical level. ... People had to scramble," Chitwood told CNN's "The Lead with Jake Tapper."In a neighborhood north of Pensacola, a creek overran its banks, inundating homes and forcing residents to retreat to their attics to await rescue, Escambia County spokesman Bill Pearson said.Rescuers were reaching the residents on state Fish and Wildlife boats and personal watercraft normally used to patrol the county's beaches, he said. The National Guard was also on the way.JUST WATCHED 4-year-old saved from tornado rubble Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 4-year-old saved from tornado rubble 01:34Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Police officer Robert Jonah walks through floodwaters in the Manayunk neighborhood of Philadelphia on Thursday, May 1. A powerful storm system, including a series of tornadoes, has claimed at least three dozen lives in several states this week. Hide Caption 1 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – People look for items to salvage from a relative's tornado-ravaged home in Louisville, Mississippi, on Wednesday, April 30. Hide Caption 2 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – On Florida's Gulf Coast, torrential rains reduced some streets to rubble, gouged huge gashes in others and left stretches of others submerged. Here, vehicles rest at the bottom of a ravine after part of the Scenic Highway collapsed near Pensacola, Florida, on April 30. Hide Caption 3 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – A truck is stuck in the middle of a flooded street after heavy rains in Pensacola on April 30. Hide Caption 4 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Volunteers throw tornado debris on a burn pile in Vilonia, Arkansas, on April 30. Hide Caption 5 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Jerry Estes salvages food items April 30 from the kitchen of his home that was damaged by a tornado in Louisville. Hide Caption 6 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – A large tree smashes a car in Tupelo, Mississippi, on April 30. Hide Caption 7 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – A tornado-damaged home near Fayetteville, Tennessee, is seen on April 30. Hide Caption 8 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Faye Busby shows where a tornado ripped off part of her home's roof in Graysville, Alabama, on Tuesday, April 29. Hide Caption 9 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – A kitchen shelf stands in what remains of a home in Louisville on April 29. Hide Caption 10 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – People work to clear a tree off a shed after a storm in Smiths Station, Alabama, on April 29. Hide Caption 11 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Bobbi Leggon and Sudie Carter work to salvage items from a friend's home in Tupelo on April 29. Hide Caption 12 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Charles Milam takes a break while searching his destroyed home in Tupelo on April 29. Hide Caption 13 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Carnesha Bennett, right, cries on a friend's shoulder after touring what remains of her mother's child care center in Louisville on April 29. Hide Caption 14 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – The remains of a large truck rest amid debris in Vilonia on April 29. Hide Caption 15 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Kevin Barnes searches the remains of his home in Tupelo on April 29. Hide Caption 16 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Constance Lambert embraces her dog after finding it when she returned to her destroyed home in Tupelo on Monday, April 28. Hide Caption 17 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Residents walk along a Tupelo street on April 28. Hide Caption 18 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Workers assist a resident in Louisville on April 28. A nursing home and the Winston Medical Center, Louisville's major hospital, were among the buildings hit. Hide Caption 19 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Jimmy Sullinger watches lightning as a storm approaches the gas station where he works in Berry, Alabama, on April 28. Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley declared a state of emergency for all counties. Hide Caption 20 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Justin Shaw, left, helps Nick Conway erect a flagpole April 28 at his destroyed home in Vilonia. Hide Caption 21 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – John Smith reacts after seeing what's left of his auto repair shop in Mayflower, Arkansas, on April 28. Hide Caption 22 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Dust and debris fly as workers flip a fallen wall while searching destroyed homes in Vilonia on April 28. Arkansas Gov. Mike Beebe said the storm was one of the worst to hit the state in recent memory. Hide Caption 23 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Residents of Baxter Springs, Kansas, view damage on April 28. A tornado estimated to be three blocks wide rumbled through Baxter Springs, said Cherokee County emergency manager Jason Allison. Hide Caption 24 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – People walk between destroyed houses on April 28 in Mayflower. Hide Caption 25 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – The remains of a home are seen in Baxter Springs on April 28. Sixty to 70 homes and at least 20 businesses there were reported destroyed, Allison said. Hide Caption 26 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – A tornado touches down in Baxter Springs on Sunday, April 27. Hide Caption 27 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – A funnel cloud is seen near Baxter Springs on April 27. Hide Caption 28 of 28JUST WATCHED Storm system can be seen from space Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Storm system can be seen from space 02:02JUST WATCHED More than 50 tornadoes hammer South Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH More than 50 tornadoes hammer South 01:21Florida Gov. Rick Scott said that crews had rescued 300 people.'People have lost everything'"It's unbelievable the amount of flooding we've had. We've have roads torn up, water clear through homes. I went to one home where the foundation was gone. ... You saw cars just thrown down a road, pushed down upside down," Scott told "The Lead." "People have lost everything, and they didn't buy flood insurance because they didn't think they were in a flood area."Scott declared a state of emergency and warned residents to expect more rain and flooding.As much as 18.9 inches of rain fell over 24 hours in Alabama and Florida, according to the National Weather Service.At Pensacola's airport, an estimated 15.55 inches of rain fell on Tuesday -- the largest amount to fall in a single calendar day since officials started tracking rainfall in 1880, the National Weather Service said.It was all the result of a slow-moving and massive storm system that sucked up moisture from the Gulf of Mexico for days before dumping it back onto land in a series of thunderstorms, said CNN meteorologist Jennifer Gray.Satellites captured an image of the water vapor held aloft by the storm tracing a huge sideways 'S' shape across much of the country.As the storm crept up the eastern seaboard Wednesday afternoon, heavy rains caused flooding in the Washington area.In Baltimore, the edge of a street buckled in a landslide that sent cars tumbling into a ravine. No one was injured, the city's transportation department said.In Perdido Key, Florida, iReporter Steve Olensky described the storm as a "hurricane and tornado all in one." "It was blowing and blowing, the rain was coming. It was just incredible," said Olensky, whose 22-foot boat vanished in the storm. "We've been through (hurricanes) Ivan and Katrina, and we've never seen anything like this."There's one major difference between this week's storms and a hurricane, Pensacola resident Cindi Bonner told CNN."You have time to prepare for a hurricane," she said. "This was not something that anyone had prepared for."Damage to bridges, disruption to military basesMany roads in the city of Gulf Shores, Alabama, were "totally flooded," the city said on Twitter. At least three heavily used bridges in Escambia County, Florida, had been badly damaged or destroyed, said Pearson, the county spokesman.Naval Air Station Pensacola, Eglin Air Force Base and Hurlburt Field, another Air Force installation, were closed to all but essential personnel, the installations said on their Twitter and Facebook accounts.In nearby Baldwin County, Alabama, the Fish River reached historic flooding levels, according to the National Weather Service.Most government offices in the Florida Panhandle were closed Wednesday, as were many schools. Pearson said emergency officials were urging businesses to stay closed as well and were asking motorists to stay off the roads.Tides up to 2 feet higher than normal were causing minor coastal flooding and dangerous rip currents, the National Weather Service said.CNN iReporter Randy Hamilton said the scene felt like the aftermath of a hurricane with "abandoned and flooded cars just littering the streets.""Debris from trees everywhere. Standing water all around, gray skies, and wind gusts that make you fear something will blow down on you," he said.JUST WATCHED Twisters leave death and destruction Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Twisters leave death and destruction 02:05JUST WATCHED Storm chaser: I am done Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Storm chaser: I am done 02:41JUST WATCHED Meteorologist takes cover during live TV Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meteorologist takes cover during live TV 00:48Arkansas tornado was EF-4The storms were part of the same system that has spawned tornadoes and other severe storms since Sunday, claiming at least 36 lives in Oklahoma, Iowa, Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee and now Florida.Tens of thousands remained without power in the South, where suspected tornadoes tore through homes and businesses late Monday.Officials revealed new details Wednesday about the powerful tornado that struck the Arkansas towns of Mayflower and Vilonia.The twister was rated an EF-4 on the Enhanced Fujita Tornado Damage scale, with an estimated peak wind speed between 180 and 190 mph, the National Weather Service said. It was on the ground for 41.3 miles on Sunday and was responsible for 15 deaths, officials said.In addition to the Florida flooding death, police in Athens, Georgia, said a driver was killed Wednesday when storm winds toppled a tree onto a car.Authorities in Mississippi confirmed another death from storms that struck Monday.At least 38 people have been killed since Sunday in storm-related deaths in Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Iowa, Florida and Georgia, according to a CNN tally of state reports.The storm could bring heavy rains and possibly thunderstorms to Jacksonville, Florida; Charlotte, North Carolina; Virginia Beach, Virginia; Raleigh, North Carolina; and Atlanta, the National Weather Service said.Heavy rain will be the norm.Flooding could be a concern in the New York City area on Thursday. Forecasters say rainfall could total up to four inches, with heavier amounts in some areas.