Story highlights Ceremony honors first soldier buried there in May 1864Property was owned by George Washington's family, Robert E. LeeMore than 400,000 people are buried there, including John F. KennedyUnder an almost cloudless sky, family members gathered and soldiers marched in full military dress. Taps echoed in the wind. A wreath of red, white and blue flowers was placed on a grave.It is a solemn ritual repeated multiple times daily, year-round at Arlington National Cemetery outside Washington. But this ceremony on Tuesday at the resting place of Army Pvt. William Christman carried particular significance.Christman, a civil war soldier, was the first to be buried at Arlington and the graveside remembrance was held to mark the start of the cemetery's 150th anniversary commemoration, which will continue through June 16.Over that century-and-a-half, more than 400,000 active duty service members, veterans and their families have been buried there, according to the cemetery's website.Photos: 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery Photos: 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery – Union soldiers at Arlington House, across the Potomac River from Washington on June 28, 1864. It is the former home of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery – President Franklin D. Roosevelt visiting the tomb of an unknown soldier on Armistice Day in the Arlington Cemetery in 1940. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery – Sen. Robert Kennedy kneels by the eternal flame at the grave of his brother, President John F. Kennedy, in Arlington National Cemetery in January 1965. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery – Mourners at the burial of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy at Arlington National Cemetery on June 8, 1968. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery – Memorial amphitheater at Arlington National Cemetery in May 1965. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery – Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis is laid to rest beside her husband, John F Kennedy, at Arlington National Cemetery on May 23, 1994. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery – NASA Administrator Sean O'Keefe visits Arlington National Cemetery to lay a wreath honoring the crew of the Space Shuttle Columbia on February 1, 2005. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery – An Arlington National Cemetery Honor Guard bugler plays taps during funeral services for Army Spc. Ross Andrew McGinnis, who was killed in Iraq in December 2006. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery – The grave of Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall is seen in Section Five, where many former justices are buried. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery 150 years of Arlington National Cemetery – Staff Sgt. Kerrin Kampa, of the Old Guard Fife and Drum Corps, along with other soldiers, place flags in front of headstones at Arlington Cemetery. Hide Caption 10 of 10Presidents, astronauts, Supreme Court justices and other notable Americans also have been laid to rest at Arlington."It's a place that is consecrated by all the heroes that are buried here," said Jack Lechner, the cemetery's deputy superintendent. "We have heroes here from every war that the United States has fought in from the Revolutionary War on."The initial property belonged to George Washington's extended family and then to Robert E. Lee, who left it at the start of the Civil War. Federal troops used it as an encampment, and the federal government purchased 200 acres in 1864 and established a cemetery.More than 600 acres now, Arlington is mostly known for dignified rows of white marble headstones that sweep down an expansive, rolling tree-lined slope where the hallowed ground almost touches the Potomac River.The cemetery is also a year-round tourist attraction with 250,000 visitors each month. Many flock to the most well-known grave -- that of President John F. Kennedy. It is marked by the flickering "eternal flame."For Phil Doyle and his family, visiting from Australia, it was one stop they knew had to be made especially with one of their sons training to be a helicopter pilot in the Australian Forces."It's an emotional thing walking in and seeing all the tombstones. It really hits you hard," said Doyle. "It's one of enormous sacrifice by so many people."Rebecca McCarley, a police officer from Oklahoma City, has visited the cemetery before and says she is overcome by feelings of extreme gratitude."It is absolutely awe inspiring the change of the guard by the Tomb of the Unknown. It's such a huge sacrifice people made so that we could be free."Barbara Christman Page, Christman's great-grandniece, had been to the cemetery before. But she was never aware there was a family grave site, something she will make sure to change for her grandchildren."It is so important. It also made us think that we need to pass this story on as opposed to just letting it stop right here," Page said. "We are going to make sure that they know. We will probably bring them back so they, too, can visit William's grave."