Story highlights "I truly believe that it is possible to win this," Amanda Knox tells CNNShe has one final appeal -- to Italy's highest courtKnox says holes in her case have been filled with speculationShe was first convicted of her onetime roommate's murder in 2009If she had been at the scene of the crime, forensic evidence would prove her guilt, but Amanda Knox says there is nothing -- no DNA, no hair, no footprints, no handprints -- to show she was there.Knox spoke in an exclusive interview with CNN on Thursday, two days after an Italian court released an explanation of her conviction.In a retrial, Knox and Raffaele Sollecito , her then-boyfriend, were found guilty in the 2007 death of Meredith Kercher , Knox's onetime roommate.JUST WATCHED Author: Amanda Knox is innocent Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Author: Amanda Knox is innocent 05:26"I did not kill my friend. I did not wield a knife. I had no reason to," Knox said.JUST WATCHED Amanda Knox: 'I did not kill my friend' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Amanda Knox: 'I did not kill my friend' 01:13JUST WATCHED Judge slams Knox conviction report Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Judge slams Knox conviction report 01:49"In the month that we that we were living together, we were becoming friends. A week before the murder occurred, we went out to a classical music concert together ... We had never fought."Knox struggled to speak at moments in the interview, seemingly overcome by emotion and thoughts of Kercher. But, for the most part, she was calm, collected and methodical in how she broke down arguments in the case.In its more than 300-page document, the Florence appeals court said a third person convicted in the murder, Rudy Guede, did not act alone, and cited the nature of the victim's wounds.Photos: Photos: The case against Amanda Knox Photos: Photos: The case against Amanda Knox The case against Amanda Knox – The knife: The prosecution in 2009 said that a knife found in Raffaele Sollecito's house has the DNA of Amanda Knox on the handle and the DNA of victim Meredith Kercher on the blade, suggesting it's the murder weapon. The defense said the knife doesn't match the shape and size of wounds on Kercher's body or an outline of the knife left on her bed. The defense also presented experts who said DNA on the blade was too small to be definitive. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Photos: The case against Amanda Knox The case against Amanda Knox – DNA on Kercher's bra clasp: The prosecution said that a bra clasp that was ripped from Kercher's bra and found on the floor of her room has Sollecito's DNA on it, proving he was in the room when she was killed. The defense said the bra clasp is contaminated and essentially tainted evidence because it was moved around the crime scene and left there for more than six weeks before it was picked up as evidence. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Photos: The case against Amanda Knox The case against Amanda Knox – Knox's confession: The prosecution said that during her interrogation, Knox said she could hear Kercher screaming. She also pointed the finger early on at Patrick Lumumba, who was eventually released. The prosecution said Knox's false statement proves she is lying and was at the home when Kercher was killed. The defense said that Knox's statements were made when she was asked to imagine what would have happened that night in her apartment. The defense said Knox pointed the finger at Lumumba because she was confused and pressured. Eventually, the confession was thrown out because Knox was not questioned with a lawyer present. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Photos: The case against Amanda Knox The case against Amanda Knox – Bloody footprint on bathroom rug: The prosecution attributed a bloody footprint on a rug in the bathroom to Sollecito, which they said proves he was there at the time of the murder. The defense, in this instance Sollecito's lawyers, presented forensic experts who said the print was in no way a match to Sollecito, but instead a match to Rudy Guede, a man from the Ivory Coast who was convicted in a separate trial for murdering Kercher. The defense focused on Sollecito's hammer toe, which they said wouldn't leave an imprint like the print found on the mat. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Photos: The case against Amanda Knox The case against Amanda Knox – The window: The prosecution said a broken window in the home Knox shared with Kercher was an attempt by the American to stage a break-in as a cover for the murder. The prosecution said it would be impossible for someone to break the window and climb through the window as proposed by the defense. The defense said the window was broken by Guede, a known drifter who had broken into homes before. Defense expert Francesco Pasquali simulated how glass would break if a rock were thrown from the outside. His testimony included that he believes a burglar could have thrown a rock that way. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Photos: The case against Amanda Knox The case against Amanda Knox – Allegations of crime scene contamination: The defense argued that several pieces of key DNA were contaminated at the scene. Crime scene video shows investigators sometimes not wearing gloves or hair coverings, prodding their fingers in Kercher's wounds, leaving key pieces of evidence at the scene for weeks and moving them around, and at one point breaking a window for no reason. The prosecution argued that all the evidence was indeed properly handled and that it isn't their job to prove the crime scene work was good enough. Instead, they said, that's the job of the defense. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Photos: The case against Amanda Knox The case against Amanda Knox – Bloody shoe print in Kercher's room: The prosecution said the bloody shoe print found next to Kercher's body belonged to Sollecito and placed him in Kercher's room when she was murdered. The defense said that after Guede was found to have a shoe box for shoes matching the print, they argued for a re-examination of the print. Francesco Vinci, a coroner and forensic specialist for Sollecito, testified he believes it was wrongly attributed to Sollecito and belongs to Guede. Hide Caption 7 of 7Ruling Judge Alessandro Nencini, who presided over the second appeal in the case, said Kercher and Knox disagreed over the payment of the rent in the house they shared in Perugia and that "there was an argument then an elevation and progression of aggression."Knox dismissed those allegations out of hand."If I were there, I would have traces of Meredith's broken body on me. And I would have left traces of myself around -- around Meredith's corpse," she said."And I -- I am not there. And that proves my innocence."'I'm not that person'When asked what type of person Judge Nencini must think she is, Knox cited his report."He believes the prosecutor when the prosecutor describes me as a person who was capable of not only completely disturbing everyone around me, but then getting drugged up," she said, trailing off."But I'm not that person. And the evidence doesn't show that."She said she has been haunted by how people perceived her behavior in the immediate aftermath of the murder.Knox was filmed kissing Sollecito outside the murder scene. At the police station, she reportedly sat on Sollecito's lap, making faces. She told Kercher's friends she must have suffered."I think it's true that people seemed to have had a kind of tunnel vision in my regard and that has been something that I've been having to fight against for a long time," Knox said.The Florence court in January said that Knox, who also was convicted of slander, was sentenced in absentia to 28 1/2 years in prison. Sollecito's sentence was 25 years.They were first convicted of murder in 2009, but those verdicts were overturned on appeal in 2011.Claudio Hellman, the judge who tossed their convictions, has lashed out at colleagues."The Florence Appeal Court has written a script for a movie or a thriller book while it should have only considered facts and evidence. There is no evidence to condemn Knox and Sollecito," said the judge in a scathing statement obtained by CNN."It's a verdict that, seems to me, is the result of fantasy and has nothing to do with evidence."Guede is the only person in jail for the slaying, and many aspects of the crime remain unexplained.'It's not a complex case'Knox's conviction has raised questions about her possible extradition to Italy to serve her sentence, since she was in the United States and did not attend the retrial. She gets one more appeal -- to Italy's highest court.She said she thought the Florence appeals court would find her innocent, and was caught by surprise when it didn't."As this case has progressed, the evidence that the prosecution has claimed exists against me has been proven less and less and less. And all that has happened is that they've filled these holes with speculation," she said.Separately, Knox added: "What I keep seeing in this case is trying to put an artificial complexity to it. It's not a complex case."If Italy's highest court affirms her conviction, the country could ask for her to be sent back to Italy, where she spent four years in prison awaiting and during her first trial. U.S. authorities would then have to decide whether to extradite.Knox said she is hopeful such a scenario can be avoided and that her next appeal will be successful.She is optimistic her life in limbo will finally be resolved."From this whole experience, especially in prison where you have to take everything day by day, right now I'm having to take everything step by step. And if I think about everything that I could possibly be facing, it's way too overwhelming for me to even conceive," Knox said."I truly believe that it is possible to win this, and to bring an end to all of the speculation and the nonsensical theories, and really bring peace to everyone who has suffered."