Story highlights Student leader: Polarized reaction to Youngstown State offer to TresselSophomore says Tressel's hiring could be a success or a bustTressel left as Ohio State's football coach under a cloud of controversyHe has been in university administration roles since thenJim Tressel -- who gained fame then infamy as a collegiate football coach in Ohio -- is now poised to lead a new team: Youngstown State University.The school's board of trustees announced Friday that it'll offer the president's job to Tressel, who has worked as an administrator at the University of Akron since departing as head football coach at Ohio State University under a cloud of controversy."Mr. Tressel has the personality and leadership skills, in addition to widespread community support, to dramatically raise YSU's profile and prominence across Ohio and the nation," board Chairman Sudershan Garg said in a statement.If the job offer is finalized, Tressel will know his way around the school. He obtained legendary status as Youngstown State's head football coach between 1986 and 2000, during which time he led teams to four Division I-AA national championships.This success catapulted Tressel to the top job at Ohio State, which historically boasts one of the top football programs in the country.He quickly picked up where he left off, leading the Buckeyes to the 2002 national championship and seven Big 10 championships.Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Notable NCAA scandals – Ex-Penn State defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky was arrested in November 2011 on charges that he preyed on boys he met through The Second Mile charity. In June 2012, he was convicted of 45 counts involving 10 young victims, and in October, he was sentenced to 30 to 60 years in prison. In July 2012, the NCAA imposed sanctions against Penn State, including a $60 million fine, scholarship reductions, the vacating of 112 wins, five years' probation and a bowl ban for four years. Click through the gallery for other notable NCAA scandals. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Notable NCAA scandals – Penn State University head football coach Joe Paterno on the sidelines during a 2004 game. Paterno's legacy was tarnished in the wake of the Jerry Sandusky child abuse scandal. The fallout included NCAA sanctions in July 2012 that struck 111 of Paterno's 409 wins from the record book. The stripped victories stretched back to 1998 and removed Paterno's crown as winningest college football coach in history. He died of cancer in January. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Notable NCAA scandals – Head coach Jim Tressel with his Ohio State Buckeyes at the 2011 Sugar Bowl. Tressel admitted he knew several star players were trading memorabilia for cash and tattoos in violation of NCAA rules. The NCAA banned the Buckeyes from postseason play for the upcoming season, and OSU voluntarily vacated all 2010 wins. Tressel "resigned" in May 2011, a move OSU later deemed a retirement. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Notable NCAA scandals – University of Miami quarterback Jacory Harris throws a pass during a 2011game. Harris was one of 13 Hurricanes initially ruled ineligible after the NCAA began investigating allegations by Nevin Shapiro, an imprisoned former booster, that he for eight years provided 72 athletes with benefits that violated NCAA rules. Shapiro is incarcerated for running a $930 million Ponzi scheme. After Miami petitioned for the players' reinstatements, one player was vindicated, while the other 12, including Harris, were reinstated after serving suspensions and/or paying restitution. The investigation into the Shapiro scandal is ongoing. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Notable NCAA scandals – Reggie Bush of the University of Southern California carries the ball past Fresno State's Matt Davis in 2005. The NCAA announced sanctions in June 2010 against USC, finding that Bush and basketball star O.J. Mayo had received lavish gifts. Bush voluntarily forfeited his Heisman Trophy, while USC was given four years' probation, stripped of 30 scholarships and had to vacate 14 wins, including a national championship. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Notable NCAA scandals – Members of the Duke men's lacrosse team listen to the national anthem at their season opener in 2007. In 2006, members of the team hired stripper Crystal Mangum for a party, and she accused three players of raping her. The scandal forced the cancellation of the men's lacrosse season that year and the resignation of team coach Mike Pressler. The allegations later proved to be false, and prosecutor Mike Nifong was disbarred for ethics violations. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Notable NCAA scandals – The NCAA has found the University of Alabama football program in violation of its rules at least three times in the last two decades. The most notable incident came in 2000 when a booster paid a high school coach to steer a recruit to the Crimson Tide. An investigation found numerous other violations, and Alabama was placed on five years' probation, among other sanctions. In 1995, the NCAA forced Alabama to vacate wins after it learned coaches were aware one of the school's All-Americans had secretly signed with an agent, and in 2009 the university was sanctioned for misuse of its textbook distribution program by 16 athletic programs, including football. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Notable NCAA scandals – Jim Harrick Sr., then head coach of the University of Georgia Bulldogs, yells from the sidelines during the 2002 NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament. Harrick resigned as UGA's head basketball coach in 2003 after his son, Jim Harrick Jr., was accused of giving an A to three basketball players who didn't attend class and paying a phone bill for one of them. The NCAA punished UGA with four years' probation, and the school was forced to vacate 30 wins from 2001-2003. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Notable NCAA scandals – Baylor University basketball player Carlton Dotson reaches for the ball against Montana State in a 2002 game. In June 2003, Baylor's Patrick Dennehy went missing. Dotson confessed to killing him and was sentenced to 35 years in prison. The NCAA later determined that Coach Dave Bliss had instructed his players to lie to investigators and tell them that Dennehy dealt drugs to cover up the coach paying thousands of dollars of Dennehy's tuition. The NCAA put the school on probation until June 2010. It also was banned from playing nonconference games for a season. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Notable NCAA scandals – Chris Webber strolls upcourt during a home game in 1993. Webber pleaded guilty in 2003 to being paid by a University of Michigan booster to launder money from an illegal gambling operation. The NCAA put the program on four years' probation and banned the team from postseason play for the 2003-04 season. Charged with lying to federal investigators, Webber pleaded guilty to misdemeanor criminal contempt and paid a $100,000 fine. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Notable NCAA scandals – The Southern Methodist University football team warms up in 1988, two years after a scandal broke that SMU boosters had been giving football players thousands of dollars from a slush fund with university officials' knowledge. In what was the first and last time it gave the "death penalty" to a football program, the NCAA suspended SMU from playing its 1987 season and banned it from recruiting. The school also was not allowed to play at home in the 1988 season and lost dozens of scholarships. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Notable NCAA scandals – Bill Musselman watches court action during a 1990 NBA game as head coach of the Minnesota Timberwolves. In 1975, Musselman left as head coach of the University of Minnesota Golden Gophers. The NCAA later found 127 violations from his four-year tenure at the school, including direct payment to players for rent and transportation. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Notable NCAA scandals Notable NCAA scandals – Kentucky celebrates the 2012 national championship in April. Sixty years earlier, the NCAA opened an investigation into the University of Kentucky Wildcats basketball program, following a national championship season in which three players had been arrested in a point-shaving scandal. The subsequent probe revealed that 10 players had received impermissible financial aid. The NCAA banned the school's entire athletic program from playing for a year -- in effect, marking the advent of the so-called "death penalty," even though the penalty wasn't given the nickname until the 1980s. Hide Caption 13 of 13But Tressel's tenure there didn't end well.He left under pressure in 2011 after reports surfaced that several Ohio State players -- including star quarterback Terrelle Pryor -- swapped team and personal memorabilia and equipment for tattoos and other benefits.Those actions alone violate NCAA rules, but it's how Tressel acted -- and didn't act -- that really drew the ire of the NCAA, the nation's dominant intercollegiate sports organization."Of great concern to the committee was the fact that (Tressel) became aware of these violations and decided not to report the violations to institutional officials, the Big Ten Conference or the NCAA," the NCAA Division 1 Committee on Infractions said in a report issued in December 2011.By then, Tressel had resigned from his Ohio State post (the school later recharacterized his departure as a retirement) and quoted him as saying that he took "full responsibility for my mistakes."The whole ordeal led the Buckeyes to vacate all 12 of their wins from the 2010 season and to suspend five players for the first five games of the following campaign. In addition, the NCAA issued a five-year order for Tressel that limited his athletics-related duties and applies to any NCAA school that wants to hire him as a coach.Yet Tressel -- who holds a bachelor's degree in education from Baldwin-Wallace College and a master's degree in education from the University of Akron -- remained active in Ohio and in the field of education.In 2012, he became vice president for strategic engagement at the Akron school and the following year was promoted to executive vice president for student success.The job as president at Youngstown State, which boasts nearly 13,500 students and more than 135 undergraduate and graduate programs, would be another step for Tressel.Michael Slavens, the president of student government at Youngstown State for 2014-2015, says reaction to the Tressel's apparent hiring has been mixed on social media."It's been very polarized," Slavens said. "People said they either really wanted Tressel, no matter what, or ... said he was the worst candidate and couldn't believe (university officials) would consider him."The new president faces a university in flux. Several other top administrative positions, including provost, are open and will need to be filled, Slavens points out.The student government leader said he thinks Tressel, as president, would excel at "being a cheerleader, the face of the university (because) he knows the area and donors" and expressed confidence he can craft "a vision" for Youngstown State and its future. If and when he is officially hired, Tressel will have lots of attention and, perhaps, momentum to get things done."The fact that Tressel is coming back and it's getting people excited, I hope it helps in a meaningful way," said Slavens. "I hope he takes advantage of the hype that he has caused."Youngstown State has had two presidents over the past two years, not including its current interim leader. Sophomore Jordan Wolfe says that many in the Mahoning Valley are hoping Tressel can steady the ship and perhaps turn all the attention into a positive. But, at the same time, things could quickly turn south -- just like Tressel's time at Ohio State."If Tressel can bring stability to YSU and bring in more donations, keeping tuition down, I'm for it," Wolfe said. "Do I think he has the potential to be a bust? Yes."