Story highlights Authorities identify three additional victims of Santa Barbara County rampageThey were found dead with multiple stab wounds in the suspect's apartmentOne victim's father slams politicians, NRA in emotional comments to mediaElliot Rodger, 22, killed six people in Santa Barbara County, authorities saySorority sisters.Roommates and a visiting friend.A college student shopping at a deli.These are the six people Elliot Rodger killed in a rampage Friday night near the University of California, Santa Barbara, police said. The violence came to an end when Rodger died, apparently from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, authorities said.By Monday, the names of all of Rodger's victims had been made public. There has been a call across social media to keep their names in the headlines as much as his, to remember and honor them while interest continues in what might have motivated their killer.JUST WATCHED Isla Vista victim's dad shares outrage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Isla Vista victim's dad shares outrage 03:08The violence began, police said, when Rodger attacked three men who were in his apartment. Cheng Yuan Hong, 20, George Chen, 19, and Weihan Wang, 20, were found stabbed in the home, officials said.JUST WATCHED Father of victim: 'Too many have died' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Father of victim: 'Too many have died' 02:01Hong and Chen are listed on the lease with Rodger. A law enforcement source said the third victim in the apartment was a visitor, adding that authorities are working on a theory that the attack happened as the men slept.Katherine Cooper, 22, and Veronika Weiss, 19, were later killed outside a sorority, and Christopher Martinez, 20, was killed at a deli, officials said. They were students at UCSB, the school's Chancellor Henry T. Yang said in an online note about the tragedy SundayMartinez's father gave a wrenching statement to the news media Saturday afternoon. His son was "a really great kid" whose "death has left our family lost and broken," Richard Martinez said."Our family has a message for every parent out there: You don't think it will happen to your child until it does," the visibly emotional parent said, his voice rising to a shout in obvious agony."Why did Chris die? Chris died because of craven, irresponsible politicians and the (National Rifle Association). They talk about gun rights -- what about Chris' right to live?" he continued. "When will this insanity stop? When will enough people say stop this madness, we don't have to live like this? Too many have died. We should say to ourselves -- not one more."The comment touched a nerve among many Americans, and it prompted the president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence to say the grieving father "got it exactly right.""It is time for the American public to know the truth about why people are dying every day and, thanks to Americans like Mr. Martinez, that truth is starting to be heard," Dan Gross said in a statement Sunday.Jeff Dolphin, Christopher Martinez's former roommate, remembered how his friend had always been there for him, the Los Angeles Times reportedA second-year student at UCSB, Dolphin recalled living with Martinez during their freshman year, the newspaper said.JUST WATCHED Shooting captured on surveillance camera Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shooting captured on surveillance camera 03:30JUST WATCHED Witness: 'It was a huge shock' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Witness: 'It was a huge shock' 04:13Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Jose Cardoso pays his respects Sunday, May 25, at a makeshift memorial at the IV Deli Mart, where part of a mass shooting took place, in Isla Vista, California. Elliot Rodger, 22, went on a rampage Friday night, May 23, near the University of California, Santa Barbara, stabbing three people to death at his apartment before shooting and killing three more in a nearby neighborhood, sheriff's officials said. Rodger also injured 13 others and died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, authorities said.Hide Caption 1 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – A man places flowers on the lawn of the Alpha Phi sorority house in Isla Vista on May 25. Two young women -- Katherine Cooper, 22, and Veronika Weiss, 19, -- were fatally shot outside the house Friday night. Hide Caption 2 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Students gather for a candlelight vigil at the University of California, Santa Barbara, on Saturday, May 24. Hide Caption 3 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Two students comfort each other during the candlelight vigil to honor the victims of Friday night's mass shooting in Isla Vista. Hide Caption 4 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – People gather at a park in Isla Vista for the May 24 vigil. Hide Caption 5 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – IV Deli Mart owner Michael Hassan, second from left, cleans up his store with employees May 24 as onlookers gather outside one of the shooting scenes. Student Christopher Martinez, 20, was getting a sandwich at the deli when he was fatally shot. Hide Caption 6 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – University of Santa Barbara, California, student Derrick Hayes gets emotional outside the IV Deli Mart on May 24 in Isla Vista. Hide Caption 7 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – A police officer inspects the gunman's car on May 24 after the killing spree in Isla Vista. The suspect, described as mentally disturbed and possibly bent on retribution, sprayed bullets from his car in a rampage called "premeditated mass murder," Santa Barbara County sheriff's deputies said. Hide Caption 8 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – A Santa Barbara County deputy sheriff walks along the street May 24 near a shooting scene in Isla Vista. Hide Caption 9 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Santa Barbara County Sheriff Bill Brown speaks at a press conference regarding murder suspect Elliot Rodger on May 24. All the weapons used in Friday's rampage "were legally purchased" and registered to the suspect, Brown told reporters. Hide Caption 10 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Flowers are placed in a bullet hole in the window of a delicatessen in Isla Vista on May 24. Hide Caption 11 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Richard Martinez, father of victim Christopher Martinez, breaks down as he talks to media outside the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Office. "Our family has a message for every parent out there: You don't think it will happen to your child until it does," the visibly emotional parent said. Hide Caption 12 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – An investigator speaks on a cell phone while examining the gunman's car. Hide Caption 13 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – A woman looks at the bullet holes on the window of the deli where part of the shooting spree took place in Isla Vista, California. Hide Caption 14 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Flowers are left on the sidewalk of the IV Deli Mart in Isla Vista, California. Hide Caption 15 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Two women comfort each other Saturday near the scene of a shooting. Seven people also were being treated in a hospital for gunshot wounds or traumatic injuries, a sheriff's office spokeswoman said. Hide Caption 16 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – A Santa Barbara County deputy sheriff checks out the black BMW sedan driven by the suspected shooter. The gunman died from a gunshot wound after his car crashed, police said. It was unclear whether the fatal head wound was self-inflicted or the result of a firefight with police. Hide Caption 17 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – The car of the alleged shooter at the crime scene Saturday. Isla Vista is the residential quarter for students mostly enrolled in UCSB and some in Santa Barbara City College. The community sits on beachfront bluffs just west of UCSB. Hide Caption 18 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – The crime scene in the aftermath of the shooting. Hide Caption 19 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Broken glass at the shooting scene Saturday. Authorities said there were multiple crime scenes. Hide Caption 20 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Fire trucks are parked outside an Isla Vista mart Friday night after the deadly rampage. The shootings occurred in a crowded area bustling with activity on Memorial Day weekend.Hide Caption 21 of 21"Chris was just an amazing guy," he told the Times. "If I was going through something, he was always there for me. If I needed something, he was there. If I needed a textbook, if I was locked out of the room because I forgot my key, he would stop playing basketball or doing what he was doing to unlock the door so I didn't have to get charged. He was just a great guy."Lyssa Hopper, a 19-year-old student, was at the counter of the I.V. Deli Mart, Hopper told the newspaper . When shooting began, Hopper dropped to the floor, looked up and saw Martinez lying near the door."He was slumped over, and he was bleeding," Hopper told the newspaper.There were 13 others who were injured, police said. Four were hit by a vehicle, eight were shot and one was being treated for injuries whose cause was unclear, authorities said.On Monday, three patients remained at the Santa Barbara Cottage Hospital, spokeswoman Maria Zate told CNN. Two patients were in good condition and one was in fair condition, she said.On Sunday at the deli, flowers and cards dotted the sidewalk. One message, with a large red heart, read, "We will miss you, Chris."Flowers were wedged into holes left by bullets in the glass storefront.'What a tragic loss'On Sunday, Tri Delta sorority tweeted about Cooper's and Weiss' killings."Tri Delta is saddened by the tragic loss of two members at UCSB. Our thoughts are with their family, friends, and Gamma Theta Chapter," it read.Weiss' Facebook page -- with a banner promoting a sorority event -- was filling with tributes Saturday evening."Rest in peace Veronika Weiss. Its not fair that life was taken from you in this manor. My thoughts are with your loved ones," wrote one commenter."... You were ALWAYS smiling. And I thought you were beautiful. Where are you now?" wrote another."My condolences to the family... What a tragic loss... R.I.P.," read a third.Weiss was a graduate of Westlake High School in Thousand Oaks, California, according to her Facebook page. She was a water polo athlete, according to USA Water Polo, which tweeted that the organization was mourning the loss of its former member.Katie Cooper was with Weiss near the Alpha Phi house when the two were killed, reported CNN affiliate KTLA . Cooper studied art history and archaeology at UCSB, according to her Facebook page, KTLA said, and graduated from Ruben S. Ayala High School in Chino Hills in 2010.In an interview with CNN, Bob Weiss, Veronika's father, described his daughter as "kind" and the sort of person who would "reach out" to those who weren't popular or who were "nerdy." He said those descriptions were not unlike the way shooter Elliot Rodger portrayed himself -- as being "a little bit of an outcast.""He had no idea who he was killing," Weiss said. "If he was able to communicate to Veronika, she would have reached out to him. She would have tried to help him. And she would have tried to be friends to him."Shooter's YouTube video titled 'Retribution'In a YouTube video he posted titled "Retribution," Rodger announced his intent to commit mass murder at a sorority house at UCSB."On the day of retribution I'm going to enter the hottest sorority house of UCSB," he said. "I'll take great pleasure in slaughtering all of you."Nick Pasichuke, who was hit by Rodger's BMW, suffered two broken legs."There was a guy driving a BMW. I was on a longboard (elongated skateboard) and he aimed his car at our group of friends and gunned it into us," he said. "I have two broken legs and need surgery. The police said I flew roughly 50 feet into a busy intersection."He added, "This is all so crazy."Witness: 'She was hysterical'Skylar Serge witnessed one of the shootings from her house."I could see a woman on a bike get thrown," she said. The woman was bleeding, she added."She was hysterical. She was not sure if it was blood running down her leg" or water from her water bottle.The woman was cared for by an employee from a nearby convenience store who wrapped a belt around her thigh to stop the bleeding, said another witness, Farah Reiz.The shootings occurred in a crowded area bustling with activity on Memorial Day weekend."These students are among the best in the country, and the loss of life is palpable," University of California system President Janet Napolitano told CNN.President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama were sending prayers to the families and friends of the victims. A homeland security official briefed the President about the shooting on Saturday."We are horrified and deeply saddened," it read, confirming that students had been taken to hospitals. The posting promised that the university would share more information as it became available and said that counselors are being made available.The flag on the campus will fly at half-staff, it said, to honor those who lost their lives.