Story highlights The overall death toll rises to 39, after a boy's body is found in MississippiFlood warnings remain, but storm starts to dissipate as it heads out to seaAlabama community got a staggering 22-26 inches of rain, weather service saysWeather service says devastating Arkansas tornado was powerful EF-4It's almost over.The slow-moving storm system that brought deadly tornadoes to the Plains and the Deep South, and flooding from the Gulf Coast to the Northeast could pop off a few more storms before sliding out to sea, forecasters said Thursday.But, thankfully, the system doesn't appear to have enough left to be much more than an annoyance.Saying the heaviest rains appeared over, forecasters dropped flood watches and warnings in many places while still warning of the potential for continued minor flooding in some -- such as parts of New York, New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Connecticut and Rhode Island.On Wednesday, the storm brought a taste of its mayhem to the mid-Altantic states and the Northeast, with flooding covering some roads in the region and delaying some New York City-area train service, CNN affiliate WUSA reported.JUST WATCHED Flooding, tornadoes pummel the Southeast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Flooding, tornadoes pummel the Southeast 01:31JUST WATCHED 4-year-old saved from tornado rubble Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 4-year-old saved from tornado rubble 01:34Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Police officer Robert Jonah walks through floodwaters in the Manayunk neighborhood of Philadelphia on Thursday, May 1. A powerful storm system, including a series of tornadoes, has claimed at least three dozen lives in several states this week. Hide Caption 1 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – People look for items to salvage from a relative's tornado-ravaged home in Louisville, Mississippi, on Wednesday, April 30. Hide Caption 2 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – On Florida's Gulf Coast, torrential rains reduced some streets to rubble, gouged huge gashes in others and left stretches of others submerged. Here, vehicles rest at the bottom of a ravine after part of the Scenic Highway collapsed near Pensacola, Florida, on April 30. Hide Caption 3 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – A truck is stuck in the middle of a flooded street after heavy rains in Pensacola on April 30. Hide Caption 4 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Volunteers throw tornado debris on a burn pile in Vilonia, Arkansas, on April 30. Hide Caption 5 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Jerry Estes salvages food items April 30 from the kitchen of his home that was damaged by a tornado in Louisville. Hide Caption 6 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – A large tree smashes a car in Tupelo, Mississippi, on April 30. Hide Caption 7 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – A tornado-damaged home near Fayetteville, Tennessee, is seen on April 30. Hide Caption 8 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Faye Busby shows where a tornado ripped off part of her home's roof in Graysville, Alabama, on Tuesday, April 29. Hide Caption 9 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – A kitchen shelf stands in what remains of a home in Louisville on April 29. Hide Caption 10 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – People work to clear a tree off a shed after a storm in Smiths Station, Alabama, on April 29. Hide Caption 11 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Bobbi Leggon and Sudie Carter work to salvage items from a friend's home in Tupelo on April 29. Hide Caption 12 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Charles Milam takes a break while searching his destroyed home in Tupelo on April 29. Hide Caption 13 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Carnesha Bennett, right, cries on a friend's shoulder after touring what remains of her mother's child care center in Louisville on April 29. Hide Caption 14 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – The remains of a large truck rest amid debris in Vilonia on April 29. Hide Caption 15 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Kevin Barnes searches the remains of his home in Tupelo on April 29. Hide Caption 16 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Constance Lambert embraces her dog after finding it when she returned to her destroyed home in Tupelo on Monday, April 28. Hide Caption 17 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Residents walk along a Tupelo street on April 28. Hide Caption 18 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Workers assist a resident in Louisville on April 28. A nursing home and the Winston Medical Center, Louisville's major hospital, were among the buildings hit. Hide Caption 19 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Jimmy Sullinger watches lightning as a storm approaches the gas station where he works in Berry, Alabama, on April 28. Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley declared a state of emergency for all counties. Hide Caption 20 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Justin Shaw, left, helps Nick Conway erect a flagpole April 28 at his destroyed home in Vilonia. Hide Caption 21 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – John Smith reacts after seeing what's left of his auto repair shop in Mayflower, Arkansas, on April 28. Hide Caption 22 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Dust and debris fly as workers flip a fallen wall while searching destroyed homes in Vilonia on April 28. Arkansas Gov. Mike Beebe said the storm was one of the worst to hit the state in recent memory. Hide Caption 23 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – Residents of Baxter Springs, Kansas, view damage on April 28. A tornado estimated to be three blocks wide rumbled through Baxter Springs, said Cherokee County emergency manager Jason Allison. Hide Caption 24 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – People walk between destroyed houses on April 28 in Mayflower. Hide Caption 25 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – The remains of a home are seen in Baxter Springs on April 28. Sixty to 70 homes and at least 20 businesses there were reported destroyed, Allison said. Hide Caption 26 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – A tornado touches down in Baxter Springs on Sunday, April 27. Hide Caption 27 of 28 Photos: Photos: Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding Storm system brings tornadoes, flooding – A funnel cloud is seen near Baxter Springs on April 27. Hide Caption 28 of 28JUST WATCHED Storm system can be seen from space Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Storm system can be seen from space 02:02Bob Bonenberger found himself cut off at every pass Wednesday trying to get to his Skippack, Pennsylvania, home."It's just terrible," Bonenberger told affiliate KYW . "The flooding is everywhere."Fears concerning a dam in Laurel, Maryland, receded on Thursday. City authorities lifted their evacuation order after the Washington Suburban Sanitary Commission said it had stabilized the situation, lowered the flow of water and determined the dam is sound.Residents from an apartment complex, a senior center and a hotel had been moved to a community center after the commission opened the dam's gates to relieve pressure, causing some flooding.Florida sets rain recordIn coastal Alabama and Florida, residents continued to struggle with the aftermath of flooding that washed out roads, chewed up parts of some buildings and caused at least $100 million in damage in Pensacola, Florida, alone, according to the city's mayor.A 67-year-old woman drowned after she was swept into a drainage ditch in Escambia County, a county spokeswoman said.Mayor Ashton Hayward described the damage on one street overrun by retention ponds near the city airport."It was an old riverbed, you know, over 100 years ago, so the water just completely blew out," he told CNN's "New Day.""The asphalt blew out, the sewer blew out, the gas blew out. It devastated homes right there. It was really almost -- it was surreal," he said.Pictures from Thursday posted to Facebook by the Walton County Sheriff's office showed roads turned into waterfalls, cars sitting abandoned and half-submerged in front of tourist condominiums, and damaged buildings."Obviously we're prepared for hurricanes but when you talk about flooding, Pensacola has never had this kind of flooding," Ashton said.Pensacola got an estimated 20.47 inches of rain over the two days of the storm, the National Weather Service said Thursday. On Tuesday alone, at the airport in Pensacola, an estimated 15.55 inches of rain fell -- the largest amount in a single calendar day since officials started keeping track in 1879, the weather service said.The area around Orange Beach, Alabama, got even more -- a staggering 22 inches to 26 inches in less than 24 hours, the agency said.Water rushed in so fast that residents climbed on top of furniture and waited on rooftops to be rescued, said Reggie Chitwood, deputy director of emergency management in Baldwin County."The waters rose at a historical level. ... People had to scramble," Chitwood said.CNN iReporter Randy Hamilton described the scene Thursday as similar to that of the aftermath of a hurricane, with "abandoned and flooded cars just littering the streets.""Debris from trees everywhere. Standing water all around, gray skies, and wind gusts that make you fear something will blow down on you," he said.There was one drowning death tied to the flooding, Florida officials said. The victim, a 67-year-old woman, drove or was swept into a drainage ditch Tuesday night, Escambia County spokeswoman Kathleen Castro said.JUST WATCHED More than 50 tornadoes hammer South Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH More than 50 tornadoes hammer South 01:21JUST WATCHED Twisters leave death and destruction Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Twisters leave death and destruction 02:05JUST WATCHED Storm chaser: I am done Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Storm chaser: I am done 02:41JUST WATCHED Meteorologist takes cover during live TV Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meteorologist takes cover during live TV 00:48'People have lost everything'Florida Gov. Rick Scott declared a state of emergency."It's unbelievable the amount of flooding we've had. We've have roads torn up, water clear through homes. I went to one home where the foundation was gone. ... You saw cars just thrown down a road, pushed down upside down," Scott said."People have lost everything, and they didn't buy flood insurance because they didn't think they were in a flood area," he said.Arkansas tornado was EF-4The storms were part of the same system that has spawned tornadoes and other severe storms since Sunday, claiming at least 39 lives in Oklahoma, Iowa, Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee and Florida.In addition to the Florida flooding death, police in Athens, Georgia, said a driver was killed Wednesday when storm winds toppled a tree onto a car.On Thursday, authorities in Mississippi confirmed another death from storms that struck three days earlier, bringing its statewide total to 14. State emergency spokesman Brett Carr said that the body of a missing boy was found in Winston County.Officials revealed new details Wednesday about the powerful tornado that struck the Arkansas towns of Mayflower and Vilonia.The twister was rated an EF-4 on the Enhanced Fujita Tornado Damage scale, with an estimated peak wind speed between 180 and 190 mph, the National Weather Service said. It was on the ground for 41.3 miles on Sunday and was responsible for 15 deaths, officials said.