Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) It's Penguin Awareness Day . No, we didn't know it existed either. Like a lot of critters, they're losing habitat and feeding grounds. We just wanted you to know. Here are a couple of other things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .PAKISTAN SCHOOL ATTACK: Militants raided a university in northwest Pakistan, timing their attack to a ceremony at the school to ensure maximum casualties. At least 21 student were killed, as were four attackers. The attack took place at Bacha Khan University in Charsadda, Peshawar -- less than 40 kilometers (25 miles) from where the Pakistani Taliban slayed 145 people, including 132 children, in another college attack in December 2014 . One Taliban spokesman said the group was responsible for today's attack; another said it wasn't.FLINT WATERFeeling flush: Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder wants $28 million from the legislature to get going on a fix for Flint's mess of a water system. The request came last night during the State of the State speech , along with a "my bad" for the way the state botched things up so colossally. The $28 million is mainly for bottled water, filters and a study on what it'll take to get everything hunky dory again. It's a drop in the bucket compared with what it'll cost to undo the damage to the water system and people's health: $1.5 billion!DETROIT SCHOOLSAnother Michigan mess: It's not just the Flint water crisis Snyder has to mop up. The Detroit school system needs an overhaul too. Let's count the ways. It's sinking under $500 million in debt. Classrooms are overcrowded. Buildings aren't being maintained. That means teachers are in a pretty surly mood. They'll stage another sickout today to get their point across. For his part, the governor's calling for a "transformational change." But that requires $$. And the state's not exactly flush with cash. (See above)JUST WATCHED Complaints of health hazards at Detroit schools Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Complaints of health hazards at Detroit schools 02:47ISIS CRISISThere's good news and good news: First, the good news. Ding dong, Jihadi John's gone . U.S. officials said back in November they were pretty sure they took out the English-speaking, shrouded "face of ISIS" in a drone strike. The terror group finally fessed up yesterday. Now, the other good news: ISIS has had to cut its fighters' salary by 50% , thanks to U.S. airstrikes on its oil business. The assaults knocked ISIS profits from $40 million a month to just a fraction of that. What's that thing they say about karma, again?CAMPAIGN 2016Welcome to the grab bag: So much to report, so little space. Deep breath, here goes:-- Remember Hillary Clinton's private email server? A new report says she stored super-secret intelligence information on it.-- Bernie Sanders has crazy polling numbers in New Hampshire. He leads Hillary by 27 points.JUST WATCHED Trump and Palin more alike than you think Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump and Palin more alike than you think 03:08BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Number of the day: 10%Percentage of college graduates who think Judge Judy is on the Supreme Court . Others on the court: Judge Wapner, Mills Lane, Judge Mathis, Judge Joe Brown, Judge Hatchett, Judge Simon Cowell, Judge Harry T. Stone and Judge ReinholdDesperation or brilliance?New on the McDonald's menu in Japan is the McChoco Potato -- French fries smothered in chocolate . Not sure we're lovin' it. (Editor: I am!)What does the Foxx say?Spelling (t)errorA Muslim boy earned his family a visit from the cops after he wrote in a class assignment he lived in a "terrorist house." He meant to say "terraced house."AND FINALLY ...eCreature comfortsDumptruck the hamster has had it with hump day. Time for a nap.