Atlanta (CNN) A one-time Texas high school football player who achieved notoriety as an alleged cartel kingpin in Mexico pleaded guilty Wednesday to drug trafficking charges in a U.S. federal court.The unlikely rise of Edgar Valdez Villareal as an American in the Mexican drug cartel hierarchy made his case unique, a federal prosecutor told reporters shortly after the court hearing.So did his nickname, "La Barbie," which his high school football coach reportedly gave him because of his blue eyes and light complexionHis penchant for expensive polo jerseys created a fashion trend known as the "Narco Polo," and a Hollywood film about his life, dubbed "American Drug Lord," is already in the works.But the scene that played out in an Atlanta courthouse on Wednesday was far from glamorous.Wearing a khaki prison uniform, Valdez, 42, looked much leaner than he did in photos of his 2010 arrest in Mexico, which showed him smiling before the cameras.A heavily guarded Edgar Valdez Villareal smiled as he stood in front of reporters after his 2010 arrest in Mexico.He answered, "yes, your honor," to a series of questions from the judge, ultimately using that phrase to say he pleaded guilty to charges of cocaine importation, cocaine distribution and money laundering.He is scheduled to be sentenced in March and faces a minimum penalty of 10 years and maximum penalty of life in prison.Rising through the ranksValdez was born in Laredo, Texas, a key hub for cross-border commerce, legal and illegal.He is accused of smuggling 100 kilograms (220 pounds) of cocaine across the border there every week for much of 2005, U.S. authorities have said.Photos: Mexico's long-running drug war Photos: Mexico's long-running drug war Mexico's long-running drug war – A skull of someone thought to be a victim of drug violence lies on the ground in Ciudad Juarez in early 2010. The border city of Juarez has been racked by violent drug-related crime, making it one of the most dangerous cities in Mexico's war on drugs. According to figures released on January 11 by the Mexican government, 12,903 people were killed in drug-related violence in the first nine months of 2011. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Mexico's long-running drug war Mexico's long-running drug war – Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Mexico's long-running drug war Mexico's long-running drug war – Mexican Federal Police stand guard over 105 tons of marijuana seized in Tijuana, Mexico, in October 2010. Smuggling remains a booming business. For example, south of the border it costs $2,000 to produce a kilo of cocaine from leaf to lab, according to the DEA. In America, a kilo's street value is significantly higher. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Mexico's long-running drug war Mexico's long-running drug war – The cartels arm themselves heavily. Here, Mexican Federal Police display a large cache of high-powered weapons, grenades, ammunition and 2 kilos of cocaine, all seized from the Zetas cartel in October 2010. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Mexico's long-running drug war Mexico's long-running drug war – Mexican army soldiers display $15 million U.S. on November 22, 2011, in Mexico City. The money was seized from alleged members of the Guzman Loera drug cartel during a raid in the border town of Tijuana, Mexico. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Mexico's long-running drug war Mexico's long-running drug war – Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Mexico's long-running drug war Mexico's long-running drug war – Two bodies hang from a bridge in Mexico in September 2011. Some cartels have developed reputations for sickening brutality -- seeming to kill for pleasure, just because they can. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Mexico's long-running drug war Mexico's long-running drug war – The Zetas cartel was blamed for setting fire to the Casino Royale in Monterrey, Mexico, in August 2011. That attack killed 52 people. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Mexico's long-running drug war Mexico's long-running drug war – Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Mexico's long-running drug war Mexico's long-running drug war – American-born Edgar Valdez Villareal, or 'La Barbie,' of the Beltran Leyva drug cartel, was arrested in August 2010 in Mexico, and smiled as he was paraded in front of the press. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Mexico's long-running drug war Mexico's long-running drug war – Joaquin Guzman, or "El Chapo" (Shorty), is the boss of the Sinaloa cartel. In this last-known photo taken outside a Juarez prison in 1993, the 5 foot 6 inch son of a poor family wears a schoolboy haircut and a disheveled puff-coat. He has eluded capture for more than a decade. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Mexico's long-running drug war Mexico's long-running drug war – After his election in 2006, President Felipe Calderon declared war on the cartels, sending the military out across the country and fired hundreds of corrupt police officers. Calderon's administration trumpets its successes, but the president is a lame duck. Term limits prohibit him from running again in 2012. Hide Caption 12 of 12In six months of 2005, Valdez sent more than 1,500 kilograms of cocaine to Atlanta alone, U.S. Attorney John Horn said Wednesday. But the quantity of drug shipments Valdez made as he climbed the cartel ranks is likely far larger, Horn said."We're talking about tens, if not hundreds, of millions of dollars," Horn said.Valdez never stepped foot in Atlanta, Horn said, but he managed a network of operatives in the city who did his bidding as "truckload after truckload of Mr. Valdez's cocaine crossed the border and traveled to Atlanta for repackaging and redistribution across the Eastern United States."Across the border, Valdez rose up the ranks of Mexican drug traffickers, allegedly being a one-time top lieutenant of Mexico's most wanted man, Joaquin "El Chapo" GuzmanValdez later joined the breakaway Beltran Leyva cartel, but the leader of that group, Arturo Beltran Leyva, was killed in a shootout with Mexican officials in late 2009. Beltran's brother Carlos was arrested, leaving Valdez in a fight to fill a power vacuum in one of Mexico's most powerful drug cartels.Nickname and sense of style aside, La Barbie was no softy.He made his name in the Mexican drug underworld as a hitman, authorities say. In the mid-2000s, two drug cartels -- the Zetas and the Sinaloa cartel -- fought a long and bloody turf battle for Nuevo Laredo smuggling routes. Valdez was one of the soldiers in those battles.Extradition came after 'El Chapo' escapeMexican authorities touted his 2010 arrest as a high-profile win in its drug war. At the time, he was on the list of most-wanted drug traffickers in both Mexico and the United States. The United States offered a $2 million reward for his capture.After his arrest, the Mexican attorney general's office published a video of his confession, in which he said he managed lucrative drug routes from Panama to the United States.Valdez spent five years in a Mexican prison, where according to The New Yorker , he shopped around intelligence on other traffickers and corrupt Mexican officials in exchange for a reduced sentence.Valdez' former boss, Guzman, was arrested in 2014. But the following year, he escaped from prison, causing great embarrassment to the Mexican government. Shortly afterward, Mexico extradited high-profile traffickers -- including Valdez -- to the United States.U.S. officials praised Mexican authorities Wednesday for capturing Valdez and sending him to the United States to face charges, touting his conviction as a victory for people on both sides of the border."These things don't happen without the cooperation of our partners in Mexico," said Daniel Salter, the Drug Enforcement Administration's special agent in charge in Atlanta.Now, he said, authorities have their sights set on a another target."We're concerned about catching Chapo again. ... That's a priority for us," Salter said.