(CNN) On Friday, three inmates went missing in a maximum security jail in Santa Ana, California.Authorities say the trio escaped; all three are charged with violent crimes, and two of them are believed to be connected to a Vietnamese gangThe hunt to find them is on, and the reward for information leading to their capture now stands at $200,000.Here's what else we know about them:Bac DuongDuong, 43, is a citizen of Vietnam who has been a permanent resident of the United States since 1991, according to Department of Homeland Security records. Seven years after becoming a resident alien, a U.S. immigration judge ordered him returned to his home country. After an appeal that was eventually denied, Immigration and Customs officials took custody of him in 2003, Lori Haley, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said.But Duong was released the next year on an order of supervision and reported as legally required until August 2014.In December, Duong was arrested in Orange County. Police said he shot a 52-year-old man. He's also accused of stealing a motorcycle and resisting arrest. Duong was being held without bond.On Wednesday, authorities released new photographs of Duong -- which show his tattoos -- in the hopes that they would help the public identify him.Hossein NayeriNayeri, 37, has fled the United States before, authorities have said. Prosecutors said he and two other men were involved in a brutal kidnapping in 2012 in which the male victim was abducted and driven to the desert, where the suspects allegedly believed he had buried money.Nayeri and the two other men were accused of burning the man with a blow torch and cutting off his penis before dumping him by the side of the road with a female friend.Authorities said he fled to his native country, Iran, after the crime. Nayeri was captured as he tried to fly from Iran to Spain. He was taken into custody in November 2013 by Czech fugitive task force members and FBI agents at the airport in Prague.When he was returned to the United States in September 2014, he was charged with two felony counts of kidnapping for ransom and one felony count each of aggravated mayhem, torture and first degree burglary.A senior deputy district attorney told the Orange County Register that he is "diabolical.""My first reaction was: Oh, my God, they let Hannibal Lecter out. He is sophisticated, incredibly violent and cunning," she told the newspaperNayeri was in the jail awaiting trial. He had pleaded not guilty.Hossein Nayeri, Jonathan Tieu and Bac Duong escaped from prison on Friday.The Los Angeles Times reported that he had left the country once before that. The Times said Nayeri was arrested in 2005 after a friend who was riding in his car was killed in an accident.Roger Bonakdar, a lawyer for the family of Ehsan Tousi, said Nayeri fled the United States but was captured in Washington in 2006. Bonakdar said Nayeri received one year in prison after pleading guilty to drunk driving and causing great bodily injury.Jonathan TieuTieu, 20, is charged with murder and attempted murder in a 2011 gang-related attack and is awaiting retrial. He had been held since 2013 on $1 million bond.Authorities say Tieu is a documented member of a Vietnamese gang."The brother I know is loving and caring, and he would never do anything to harm other people," his sister said.The pair told KABC that they visited with him on January 18.