(CNN) Glenn Frey is gone. Michigan's governor doesn't want to go. And El Chapo isn't going anywhere. It's Tuesday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .FLINT WATER CRISIS: Is that water or Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder's political career circling the drain? The drinking water situation in Flint has been handled so badly, it's been dubbed "Katrina II." "It's a disaster," Snyder readily admits. He says he's going to fix it, but dozens of protesters met outside his house yesterday and said, "Nah, don't bother. Just quit already." Snyder's sure to bring up Flint's water today during his State of the State address at the state capitol. And he'll also address Detroit schools, which is a whole other messGLENN FREYTENNIS MATCH FIXINGTennis racket: The Australian Open -- big time tennis' Grand Slam kickoff -- has begun. Guess what? No one cares, not when The Australian Open -- big time tennis' Grand Slam kickoff -- has begun. Guess what? No one cares, not when rumors of match fixing swirls through the courts. BuzzFeed and the BBC (now that's an odd couple) say match fixing is rampant in the sport, includes grand slam winners and can be traced back to the gambling operations of Russian and Italian crime syndicates. Tennis' powers-that-be say the allegations are foul. Game, set, tatch.JUST WATCHED Match-fixing claims cast shadow over Aussie Open Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Match-fixing claims cast shadow over Aussie Open 02:14EL CHAPOExtreme Makeover - Prison Edition: Twice! Twice, El Chapo's embarrassed Mexico with his Houdini-like hijinks. : Twice! Twice, El Chapo's embarrassed Mexico with his Houdini-like hijinks. They'll be damned if he does it a third time . Security in the prison where Joaquin Guzman's being held - the same one he slipped away from, btw -- has been pumped up: 400 new cameras (with 600 more on the way), new motion sensors, increased visitor restrictions. He's constantly moved from cell to cell, and - in case he wants to do a little tunnel-digging - prison floors are now reinforced with three-quarter-inch steel rods.Joaquin "El Chapo" GuzmanCHINA ECONOMYThe dragon dives: The growth in China's economy last year was at a : The growth in China's economy last year was at a quarter-century low , we found out this morning. Why do we care? Because China's been the engine driving the world's economic fortunes. As it tanks, the world markets are headed south too. If you haven't paid attention to Wall Street's woes in 2016, just check your 401(k). On second thought, don't - unless you have a strong stomach.JUST WATCHED China registers weakest growth in 25 years Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China registers weakest growth in 25 years 02:05BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day: ""Thank you to all of the straight white guys who dominated movies and TV so hard and for so long that stories about anyone else seem kind of fresh and original now" Alan Yang, : ""Thank you to all of the straight white guys who dominated movies and TV so hard and for so long that stories about anyone else seem kind of fresh and original now" accepting the best comedy series prize Sunday night at the Critics' Choice Awards for "Master of None," the Netflix show about the life of an aspiring Indian-American actor he co-created with Aziz Ansari.When you just have money to throw awayAnthropologie is selling a trash can for $100. But, hey, it is hand made.Today in facepalmSomebody thought it was a swell idea to model a video game off the 2014 Pakistan military school attack that left 145 ' dead, most of them kids. Thankfully, the Internet beat some sense into them.Intergalactic planetaryEver woke up and said, "I wish I could see five planets together in the sky this morning?" For the first time since 2005, you can.Nutty newsWant to act out on a South Korean plane? Be prepared to suffer under the weight of the country's new " anti-nut rage " law.Nuttier newsYou might want to skip the cashews at Trader Joe's for awhile. They're being recalled because of salmonella fears.AND FINALLY ...Oh, say can you sing