(CNN) Remembering an icon. Capturing a kingpin. And honoring Hollywood. It's Monday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.DAVID BOWIE: David Bowie was known by many names: David Jones. Ziggy Stardust. The Thin White Duke. But many this morning are finding other words to describe the pop-rock icon: Creative. Innovative. Groundbreaking. Bowie died yesterday after battling cancer for 18 months. He was productive until the end, releasing what turned out to be his final album, "Blackstar," on Friday, his birthday. Of course it shot to the top of the carts. In addtion to music, Bowie was also an actor, appearing in movies and even on Broadway.EL CHAPO AND SEAN PENN: The world's biggest fugitive drug dealer has been arrested, but all anybody wants to talk about is Sean Penn. That's where we are, after the bombshell revelation that actor Sean Penn secretly interviewed "El Chapo" back in October when he was on the run. El Chapo was back behind bars this weekend (in the same prison, even!) after Mexican forces nabbed him after a shootout on Friday. El Chapo may be extradited to the U.S. Meanwhile authorities say they want to have a little chat with Mr. Penn.PLAYGROUND RAPEHorrific: Four teens were jailed last night in the : Four teens were jailed last night in the gang rape of an 18-year-old woman in a Brooklyn, New York playground. The woman said she and her father were in the playground when they were accosted Thursday night by five men. They pointed a gun at the father's face and told him to leave. By the time he got back with help, all five suspects had raped the woman and fled. The search continues for the fifth suspect.NORTH KOREADouble detainment: Is an American citizen being : Is an American citizen being held by North Korea as a prisoner ? A man CNN spoke to at a Pyongyang hotel said he's Kim Dong Chul, a naturalized citizen who used to live in Virginia. North Korea supplied his passport as verification, but State Department officials couldn't confirm if he's an American. Meanwhile, the North is holding a Canadian pastor prisoner . CNN talked to him too. He got a life sentence in December after being convicted of using religion to overthrow the regime.JUST WATCHED N. Korea gives CNN access to alleged U.S. detainee Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH N. Korea gives CNN access to alleged U.S. detainee 02:06GOLDEN GLOBESDrama is hilarious: An astronaut left behind on Mars struggles to stay alive until he can be rescued. Sounds like a comedy, right? It did to : An astronaut left behind on Mars struggles to stay alive until he can be rescued. Sounds like a comedy, right? It did to Golden Globe voters , who named the Matt Damon sci-fi saga "The Martian" best picture in comedy/musical category last night. (Can't wait for the Broadway version!) Add in Sean Penn jokes, Ricky Gervais' and Mel Gibson's awkward frenemy routine and a standing ovation for Rocky, er, um, Sylvester Stallone, and it all adds up to one weird eveningJUST WATCHED Best moments from the 2016 Golden Globes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Best moments from the 2016 Golden Globes 01:59BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day: "It was all good until my eyelashes froze." NFL player Richard Sherman, on playing in sub-zero temperatures yesterday during the : "It was all good until my eyelashes froze." NFL player Richard Sherman, on playing in sub-zero temperatures yesterday during the Seattle Seahawks-Minnesota Vikings playoff gameHere we go againChinese stocks -- surprise -- tanked right after the opening this morning, possibly heralding another crummy week on Wall Street.(Don't) use the forceGOP prez hopeful Ted Cruz said he wouldn't use a "deportation" force to try to round up millions of illegal immigrants. The Donald still does, though.How low can it go?You thought gas dropping below $2 a gallon was some kind of miracle? Well then get ready for the return of $1 gas.Now you see it, now you don'tPanasonic has created a new "invisible" TV you can see through when the TV is off.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up later.Everything's bigger in Texas"Affluenza" mom Tonya Couch has a hearing this morning in Texas. Pretty sure she's hoping the judge will reduce her massive $1 million bond.Round twoJury selection starts this morning in the second of the Freddie Gray trials . This time the officer who was driving the police van will be tried.World's bestSoccer superstar Lionel Messi hopes to make history today by winning FIFA's Ballon d'Or -- given to the game's best player -- for the fifth time.Number of the day: $1.3 billion. That's the estimated jackpot for Wednesday's Powerball drawing. Yeah, billion with a "B."AND FINALLY ...Back to the futureIf Marty McFly had a hoverboard, he wouldn't get very far.