Photos: Horse power in New York Horse power in New York – A horse pulls a carriage down a snow-dusted street in Central Park in January 2014. Hide Caption 1 of 12Photos: Horse power in New York Horse power in New York – Trolley cars, pedestrians and horse-drawn carriages negotiate the traffic around Columbus Circle at the southwest corner of Central Park in the late 1900s. Hide Caption 2 of 12Photos: Horse power in New York Horse power in New York – Horses pull carriages among the peddlers and pedestrians on the Lower East Side in 1900. Hide Caption 3 of 12Photos: Horse power in New York Hansom cab horse power in New York – A carriage driver in a top hat and a passenger in a mutton-sleeved dress, shielding herself with a fancy umbrella, splendidly conjure up the past on a 1947 New York City street. Hide Caption 4 of 12Photos: Horse power in New York Horse power in New York – A representative from the ASPCA waters a horse during a 1963 heat wave in New York. Hide Caption 5 of 12Photos: Horse power in New York Horse power in New York – Ringo Starr, Paul McCartney and John Lennon wave from a hansom cab in Central Park the day after the Beatles' arrival in the United States for the first time. George Harrison was off nursing a sore throat. Hide Caption 6 of 12Photos: Horse power in New York Horse power in New York – A hansom cab passes by artists Christo and Jeanne Claude's installation "The Gates" in Central Park on March 1, 2005. The fabric "gates" strode 23 miles of paved paths throughout the park. Hide Caption 7 of 12Photos: Horse power in New York Horse power in New York – A carriage horse named Smoothie lies dead after a sudden noise made her bolt onto the sidewalk. She died of shock after she got stuck between two poles and panicked on Central Park South in September, 2007. Hide Caption 8 of 12Photos: Horse power in New York Horse power in New York – A carriage drawn by two horses on its way to pick up a wedding party was smashed when it was struck by a livery cab in Brooklyn in 2008. The driver and horses were injured. Hide Caption 9 of 12Photos: Horse power in New York Horse power in New York – Chrissie Hynde, left, who sang with the rock/new wave band the Pretenders, leads a PETA protest near Central Park in 2008. Hide Caption 10 of 12Photos: Horse power in New York Clip, clop. Slow, winding days for New York's horse drawn carriages – A tourist strokes a horse's nose near Central Park on April 15, 2010. Most of the horses are Percheron mixes. Tourists from all over the world take spins around the park in the carriages. Hide Caption 11 of 12