Washington (CNN) Dave Schneider shook his head as he surveyed the scene around him.Inside a stadium parking lot, there were mountains of snow piled high as far as the eye could see."It's a horror show," the dump truck driver said. "It's just, there's no way to keep up with it right now."Days after a blizzard clobbered the East Coast, officials across the region were still dealing with a difficult problem: where to put all the snow.In Washington, truckloads of snow came rumbling into the parking lot of RFK Stadium, where city officials said they planned to bring a machine that can melt 60 tons of snow an hour.Authorities there and in New York, where a travel ban was lifted Sunday, asked people to remain off the roads whenever possible to give crews space to clear side streets and other locations still packed with snow.Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Long Island Railroad workers clear snow off train tracks in Port Washington, New York, on Monday, January 25. A massive winter storm clobbered the East Coast this weekend, shutting down travel in many of the nation's largest cities. Hide Caption 1 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast People shovel snow from a covered street in Wilmington, Delaware, on January 25. Hide Caption 2 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Pirjo Garby, left, and Tom Henry, both of Washington, sit near the Tidal Basin and watch the sunset behind the Jefferson Memorial on Sunday, January 24. Hide Caption 3 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Snow is cleared along a street in the Upper West Side neighborhood of New York on January 24. Hide Caption 4 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast People dig out their cars in Alexandria, Virginia, on January 24. Hide Caption 5 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A taxi driver in Washington tries to get his car out of the snow on January 24. Hide Caption 6 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Workers clear snow from Long Island Railroad tracks on January 24. Hide Caption 7 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Snow is piled in front of the U.S. Capitol on January 24. Hide Caption 8 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Workers remove snow on the tarmac at Ronald Reagan National Airport on January 24. Hide Caption 9 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast People cross a snow- and slush-covered street in New York on January 24. Hide Caption 10 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A man walks with a shovel past a line of snowed-in cars in Washington on January 24. Hide Caption 11 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast North Wildwood, New Jersey, experienced flooding from the storm. Hide Caption 12 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Crews clear a bridge in Lynchburg, Virginia, on January 24. Hide Caption 13 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Beatrice Evangeline, 3, walks through a narrow shoveled-out path in Philadelphia on January 24. Hide Caption 14 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Joe Damico, deputy director of the Virginia Department of General Services, shovels a walkway to the State Capitol in Richmond, Virginia, on January 24. Hide Caption 15 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Police cars remain covered in snow in New York on January 24. Hide Caption 16 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Quan Hill, left, and Lamont Hobson shovel their driveway in Lynchburg on January 24. Hide Caption 17 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Workers clean a snow-covered street in New York's Times Square on January 24. Hide Caption 18 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Crews work to remove the snow from a highway in Washington on January 24. Hide Caption 19 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A family tries to push out a snow-bound car in Philadelphia on January 24. Hide Caption 20 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A boat is partly submerged in high water in Middle Township, New Jersey, on January 24. Hide Caption 21 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A fire hydrant peeks out of deep snow in Centreville, Virginia, early on January 24. Hide Caption 22 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A pedestrian in Washington walks south on 13th Street on Saturday, January 23. Hide Caption 23 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A women walks toward the steamship ferry terminal in Woods Hole, Massachusetts, on January 23. Hide Caption 24 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Chris Holder, left, and Chris Hauger try to push a loaded six-wheel salt truck in Baltimore on January 23. Hide Caption 25 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A line of cars and trucks were stuck along the Pennsylvania Turnpike on January 23. Hide Caption 26 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Michael McDonald attempts to pull his friend's car out of snow in Irvington, New York, on January 23. As his friend steered and gently accelerated, McDonald was able to get the car out of the snow and up the hill. Hide Caption 27 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast People make their way down a street in Jersey City, New Jersey, on January 23. Hide Caption 28 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Headstones jut from the snow at Arlington National Cemetery. Hide Caption 29 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast New York's Times Square was blanketed in snow on January 23. Hide Caption 30 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast People help push a car out of the snow as another motorist tows it in Richmond on January 23. Hide Caption 31 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Secret Service officers push a police car stuck in front of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building in Washington on January 23. Hide Caption 32 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A man walks by Federal Hall in New York on January 23. Hide Caption 33 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A New York City transit worker shovels snow from a subway platform on January 23. Hide Caption 34 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Soldiers and a Washington firefighter in a Humvee assist a stranded motorist in Washington on January 23. Hide Caption 35 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A New York City police officer uses a snow blower to clean the sidewalks on January 23. Hide Caption 36 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast People walk across Philadelphia's Market Street as snow falls during the evening commute on Friday, January 22. Hide Caption 37 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Crews clear the East Plaza at the U.S. Capitol as they try to keep up with the heavy snow on January 22. Hide Caption 38 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A man walks in the snow in Washington on January 22. Hide Caption 39 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast An accident victim near Richmond removes belongings from a car along Interstate 95 on January 22. Hide Caption 40 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast North Carolina state troopers respond to an accident involving a tractor-trailer in Whitsett, North Carolina, on January 22. Hide Caption 41 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Vehicles move along Interstate 85 as a sign warns about adverse conditions in Greensboro, North Carolina, on January 22. Hide Caption 42 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A man carts home groceries as snow falls in Towson, Maryland, on January 22. Hide Caption 43 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Snow is shoveled outside the entrance of the Country Music Hall of Fame in Nashville, Tennessee, on January 22. Hide Caption 44 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A 9-year-old boy shovels the sidewalk at his house in Bowling Green, Kentucky, on January 22. Hide Caption 45 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Snow slows down traffic on Interstate 40 in Nashville on Friday, January 22. Hide Caption 46 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Duke Energy employees work to restore power in Matthews, North Carolina, on January 22. Hide Caption 47 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A person walks through the blowing snow in Bowling Green on January 22. Hide Caption 48 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A man cleans his windshield wipers at a stop light in Bowling Green on January 22. Hide Caption 49 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast Snow plows make their way north along Interstate 95 as snow begins to fall in Ashland, Virginia, on January 22. Hide Caption 50 of 51 Photos: Winter storm brings snow to East Coast A woman in Lynchburg shovels the sidewalks in front of her house on January 22. Hide Caption 51 of 51New York Mayor Bill de Blasio issued a travel advisory, warning that black ice could cause dangerously slick driving conditions as temperatures drop at night.Virginia State Police sent out a similar message, noting the agency had responded to more than 1,500 traffic crashes since Friday.Death toll climbsThe blizzard began pummeling the region on Friday. It blanketed cities with massive amounts of snow, caused devastating flooding and snarled traffic.At least 37 people died as a result of the storm: 10 in New York, six in North Carolina, six in Virginia, four in South Carolina, three in Pennsylvania, three in New Jersey and one each in Kentucky, Maryland, Ohio, Delaware and Washington.Official tallies of deaths during the storm were higher, but CNN has not been able to confirm individual reports, and it was unclear if all of the reported fatalities were weather-related.Many of the deaths were the result of snow shoveling.Authorities warned residents about trying to shovel out, saying the stress of such exertion could bring on heart attacks."Some of our guys out there, they want to be Superman," Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said. "But they don't have to be. They can be Superman 30 minutes at a time."Snow totals throughout the region.In Pennsylvania, a 56-year-old man died of carbon monoxide poisoning after a snowplow buried his car, an 80-year-old man died while shoveling snow and a pregnant 18-year-old died after collapsing while shoveling snow, officials said.In Passaic, New Jersey, a mother and son died inside a car, trying to stay warm while the father shoveled snow outside, police said. The car's exhaust pipe was blocked with snow, police said, causing carbon monoxide to enter the vehicle. A daughter who was also in the car was in critical condition.In Mahwah, New Jersey, police said a group of students who got off a school bus Monday afternoon discovered the body of a neighbor almost covered by snow. The 64-year-old woman was found with a snow shovel, and investigators believe she suffered a medical emergency and collapsed during the blizzard.For some, 'a good time'The calendar may have said Monday, but for lots of people along the East Coast, it was another snow day instead.Among those taking the day off while street crews, plow drivers and enterprising teens clean up the mess left behind by the weekend blizzard : federal workers in the nation's capital, state employees in Maryland and Virginia, plenty of private-sector employees, and schoolchildren all over the region."People are out having snowball fights, having a good time," Rawlings-Blake said.But it wasn't all fun and games, of course.Transit workers in New York struggled to get the Long Island Rail Road back into operation, restoring service for about 80% of riders by Monday morning, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo told CNN.De Blasio said the blizzard will almost certainly rank among his city's "top five snowstorms" in recorded history in terms of snow accumulation."Things are not entirely normal today, but a lot of the city is operating well," de Blasio said Monday, thanking city employees for their hard work.In Washington, where recovery didn't seem quite as far along, Mayor Muriel Bowser warned residents of "several days of cleanup ahead of us.""Know that we're going to be dealing with snow all of this week," she said.Still, she said, the city was bouncing back. Schools are set to reopen Wednesday, she said, and city offices will reopen Tuesday.Federal government offices in the area remain closedAll but one of the city's Metrorail lines will be open for service on Tuesday, officials said, and Washington's airports were slowly returning to life with limited flight schedules.Airlines canceled more than 1,800 flights Monday, less than half Sunday's total, but enough to cause plenty of headaches.One passenger at Reagan National Airport in Washington was hoping to get home Monday after eight cancellations. Others remained stuck in limbo.