(CNN) For 26 days, armed occupiers have been holed up in a lonely federal wildlife refuge headquarters in rural Oregon.Dismissing the exhortations of the governor, ignoring the inconveniences of the residents, the occupiers stood their ground, saying they were protesting federal land policies.The government waited patiently for an opportunity to end the situation peacefully. A break came Tuesday night when Ammon Bundy, the group's leader, was arrested, along with several others. Another protester was killed.Here's a look at what happened -- and what happens next:Are protesters still at the wildlife refuge?Yes, though it's unclear how many.Numbers have fluctuated since the occupation of Malheur National Wildlife Refuge headquarters began in early January.CNN's Sara Sidner, who visited the refuge earlier this month, said she saw dozens of people there, mostly men.After Tuesday's arrests, the usually outspoken group didn't specify how many remain. Gov. Kate Brown called for patience while officials work toward a "swift and peaceful resolution."What do the occupiers plan to do next?Occupiers who remained Wednesday morning told journalist John Sepulvado -- reporting from inside the refuge but outside the headquarters -- that they planned to stay and were prepared to die."I just spoke to the new leaders -- including Jason Patrick -- They say that 5-6 (people) had a meeting, and by consensus they decided to stay," Sepulvado wrote Wednesday morning on Twitter.i just spoke to the new leaders -- including jason patrick - They say that 5-6 ppl had a meeting, and by consensus they decided to stay. 1/2 — John Sepulvado (@JohnLGC) January 27, 2016Ammon Bundy, son of Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy, had said he and others were prepared to stay in the building for days, weeks or months if necessary. They have enough food and other supplies, he said, to see them through for a long time.The younger Bundy repeatedly warned that the armed occupiers don't intend to harm anyone and said that if law enforcement or others try to force them from the building, they would defend themselves.But on Wednesday, Ammon Bundy released a statement through his attorney, urging the remaining occupiers to go home."To those remaining at the refuge, I love you. Let us take this fight from here. Please stand down. Go home and hug your families," he said in the statement. "This fight is ours for now in the courts. Please go home."On Tuesday, the group said on its unverified Facebook page that it was "at a heightened level of alert" and asked for prayers.Why did they occupy the refuge in the first place?JUST WATCHED Guess who owns 28% of U.S. land Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Guess who owns 28% of U.S. land 01:42When the group initially occupied the remote outpost about 30 miles from Burns, Oregon, its goals seemed hazy.Bundy said the occupiers essentially want two thingsFirst, they want the federal government to relinquish control of the wildlife refuge building so "people can reclaim their resources," he told CNN.And second, they want a lighter prison sentence for Dwight Hammond and his son Steven, ranchers who were convicted in 2012 of committing arson on federal land in Oregon.Bundy has said the Hammonds' case illustrates the government's "abuse" of power, even though the Hammonds themselves said the occupiers don't speak for them.What happened Tuesday night?Protest leaders were on their way to a community meeting set up by local residents when authorities attempted to pull them over, according to a law enforcement official who described the dramatic showdown.One vehicle stopped, but the other, driven by LaVoy Finicum , took off at high speed, the source said. With police in hot pursuit, Finicum tried to leave the main road and drove into a snowbank.Photos: Oregon standoff mugshots Photos: Oregon standoff mugshots Seven people linked to an armed occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Oregon were arrested in that state on Tuesday, police said. Five, including the occupiers' leader, Ammon Bundy (pictured), were arrested in a traffic stop on U.S. 395, police said. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Oregon standoff mugshots Also arrested in the traffic stop was Bundy's brother, Ryan Bundy (pictured). Police said shots were fired during the stop -- it was unclear who fired first -- and that Ryan Bundy was injured. One of the occupiers, LaVoy Finicum (not shown), died, police said. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Oregon standoff mugshots Brian Cavalier was one of the five people arrested in Tuesday's traffic stop on U.S. 395 in Oregon, police said. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Oregon standoff mugshots Shawna Cox was also among those arrested in Tuesday's traffic stop on U.S. 395 in Oregon, police said. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Oregon standoff mugshots Ryan Waylen Payne was one of the five people arrested in Tuesday's traffic stop on U.S. 395 in Oregon, police said. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Oregon standoff mugshots Joseph O'Shaughnessy was one of two people linked to the occupation who were arrested Tuesday in Burns, Oregon -- separate from the traffic stop, police said. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Oregon standoff mugshots Peter Santilli was one of two people linked to the occupation who were arrested Tuesday in Burns, Oregon -- separate from the traffic stop, police said. All seven people arrested in Oregon on Tuesday face a federal felony charge of conspiracy to impede officers of the United States from discharging their official duties through the use of force, intimidation or threats, police said. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Oregon standoff mugshots Jon Eric Ritzheimer, 32, turned himself in to police in Peoria, Arizona, the FBI said. Ritzheimer has organized armed anti-Muslim rallies and had been in Oregon supporting the occupiers there. Hide Caption 8 of 8He emerged from the vehicle and was ordered to surrender, said the source. That's when, according to the source, Finicum reached toward his waistband where he had a gun.Officers opened fire and Finicum was killed. Bundy's brother, Ryan Bundy, suffered a light wound on his arm.In all, police arrested eight people Tuesday linked to the wildlife refuge takeover: five in the traffic stop on U.S. Highway 395, two others in Burns, and one in Arizona, the FBI and Oregon State Police said.What do we know about Finicum?Finicum was one of the most outspoken occupiers. Earlier this month, he told CNN he'd rather be killed than arrested."There's no way I'm going to sit in a concrete cell where I can't see the stars and roll out my bedroll on the ground," he told CNN. "That's just not going to happen. I want to be able to get up in the morning and throw my saddle on my horse and go check on my cows. It's OK. I've lived a good life. God's been gracious to me."Finicum, a rancher who lived in the Kaibab Plateau area of northern Arizona, publicly stated he was no longer paying federal grazing fees. He called the fees "extortion," The Arizona Republic reported this month.He had appeared at multiple press conferences at the refuge.A Facebook post on the Bundy Ranch page said Finicum had his hands up and was shot three times. Michele Fiore, a Nevada assemblywoman and Bundy family supporter, also asserted that's what happened. Fiore told The Oregonian that Ammon Bundy called his wife from the back of a police car Tuesday night and told her that Finicum was cooperating with police when he was shot, the paper reported.Authorities told CNN they are not commenting on the allegations.Why was the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge chosen?Protesters broke into the refuge on January 2 after a rally in support of the Hammonds. "This refuge -- it has been destructive to the people of the county and to the people of the area," Bundy said.He said the refuge has taken over the space of 100 ranches since the early 1900s. "They are continuing to expand the refuge at the expense of the ranchers and miners," he said.CNN has not independently corroborated Bundy's assertions.No employees were inside the building when protesters broke in, officials said.CNN MapHow is the community reacting?Community reaction to the occupiers has been mixed.Many local folks have said they are upset about what has happened to the Hammonds, but the vast majority raised their hands when asked at a community meeting if they wanted the group to leave and the situation to end peacefully.A few ranchers have supported the group, bringing protesters food.Leaders of the Burns Paiute tribe called the occupiers a "bunch of bullies and little criminals" and asked them to leaveHarney County Judge Steve Grasty, who has been outspoken about the Bundys, released a statement after the arrests, saying, "I am relieved this situation is coming to an end, however, I am saddened by the loss of life. I hope and pray that those who remain at the refuge will stand down peacefully."What happens next?That depends on whether the rest of the occupiers leave.JUST WATCHED See inside contested Oregon federal building Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See inside contested Oregon federal building 02:06Keeping an eye on them apparently hasn't been cheap. The occupation so far is costing Oregon about $100,000 a week , the governor has said. She wants reimbursement from the federal government for those mounting costs.Then there's the legal process. All eight people arrested Tuesday face a federal felony charge relating to their occupation of the refuge: conspiracy to impede officers of the United States from discharging their official duties through the use of force, intimidation or threats, authorities said."Please know I am doing everything in my power to restore normal life to Harney County," the governor said in a statement. "My office will continue collaborating with law enforcement partners to resolve the situation and hold wrongdoers accountable."