Story highlights Buildings where eight in East Harlem died were served by a 127-year-old gas mainU.S. utilities struggle to maintain and replace antiquated, leaky gas mainsSafety expert: "Gas explosions are happening way too frequently"Those two New York buildings where eight people died in an explosion were served by a very old gas main -- 127 years old to be exact. It's the latest incident in what experts warn is a dangerous trend plaguing the nation's oldest cities: natural gas leaks and aging infrastructure."Gas explosions are happening way too frequently," said Mark McDonald, president of Boston-based NatGas Consulting and the New England Gas Workers Association. "It's an epidemic."The cause of Wednesday's explosion in East Harlem, which injured dozens and destroyed the five-story buildings, has not been determined officially. But tests taken of the soil in the area in the hours after the explosion found natural gas at levels as high as 20% when none should have been present, federal investigators said."It almost confirms you had a gas leak out there, and the building exploded," McDonald told CNN. "That means we can be 99% sure this was caused by a gas explosion."Robert Sumwalt of the National Transportation Safety Board, which is investigating the blast, said the readings indicated natural gas might have triggered the explosion that shook the bustling neighborhood.The soil readings "further lead to the hypothesis that this may well have been a natural gas leak," Sumwalt told reporters. "We would expect to find zero concentration of natural gas in the soil, so it would indicate that at least somehow or another natural gas did work its way into the ground."Some urban gas lines: Antiquated and hard to reachJUST WATCHED Dramatic scenes from NYC explosion Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dramatic scenes from NYC explosion 01:39Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Rubble is seen on Friday, March 14, two days after an explosion leveled two apartment buildings in the East Harlem neighborhood of Manhattan, injuring dozens and killing at least eight people. Though authorities have said a gas leak may have triggered the explosion, Mayor Bill de Blasio told reporters Thursday that the official cause was under investigation. Hide Caption 1 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Firefighters look over what remains of a building affected by the explosion on March 14. Hide Caption 2 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – A vehicle crushed by debris from the building explosion is seen on the street. Hide Caption 3 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – An excavator removes debris on Thursday, March 13, from the site of a massive explosion. Hide Caption 4 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – People protect their faces from dust on March 13. Hide Caption 5 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Police officers stand near the site of the explosion on March 13. Hide Caption 6 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Smoke fills 116th Street as a stretcher is wheeled toward the site of the explosion on March 13. Hide Caption 7 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Heavy smoke rises from the debris on Wednesday, March 12. Hide Caption 8 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Medics put a person into an ambulance at the scene of the explosion on March 12. Hide Caption 9 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Water is sprayed on smoldering debris close to the scene of the building collapse. Hide Caption 10 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – A police officer covers his face with a mask to protect himself from the smoke. Hide Caption 11 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio speaks during a news conference. "This is a tragedy of the worst kind," he said, "because there was no indication in time to save people." Hide Caption 12 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – New York firefighters battle the fire near 116th Street and Park Avenue, once the heart of the city's large Puerto Rican community. Hide Caption 13 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Firefighters work to contain the fire. The firefighters responding to a gas leak report barely missed the blast, Fire Commissioner Salvatore Cassano said: "If we were here five minutes earlier, we may have had some fatalities among firefighters." Hide Caption 14 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Rescue workers remove an injured person from the scene. Hide Caption 15 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Alecia Thomas, left, is comforted by her friend, Shivon Dollar, after Thomas' home was destroyed in the explosion. Hide Caption 16 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – De Blasio, in the blue jacket, arrives at the site of the explosion. Hide Caption 17 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – People stand behind a police line. Hide Caption 18 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Firefighters work from the roof of a building next to the site of the explosion. Hide Caption 19 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Workers inspect debris on the Metro North railroad tracks near the scene of the explosion. Hide Caption 20 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Firefighters observe rescue efforts after the explosion. Hide Caption 21 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Broken glass and debris litter the area around the scene. Hide Caption 22 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Hundreds of firefighters responded to the scene. Hide Caption 23 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Police search the debris. Hide Caption 24 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Smoke billows from the site of the explosion and collapse. Hide Caption 25 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Police create a one-block perimeter around the site. Hide Caption 26 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – People watch as rescue efforts continue after the explosion. Hide Caption 27 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – People run from the scene. Hide Caption 28 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Debris is scattered over a wide area as firefighters work to contain the fire. Hide Caption 29 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Firefighters examine the damage to one building after the explosion. Hide Caption 30 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Firefighters respond to the fire. Hide Caption 31 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Firefighters work to douse the fire. Hide Caption 32 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Firefighters work at the scene. Hide Caption 33 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Rubble from the explosion spills onto Park Avenue. Hide Caption 34 of 35 Photos: Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings Explosion destroys East Harlem buildings – Firefighters work to douse the fire. Hide Caption 35 of 35JUST WATCHED Mayor: This is a tragedy of the worst kind Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mayor: This is a tragedy of the worst kind 03:00JUST WATCHED I felt the explosion in my living room Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH I felt the explosion in my living room 01:28The blast comes as many U.S. utilities struggle to maintain or replace antiquated, hard-to-reach and leaky gas mains in older urban areas, according to experts. The most vulnerable mains are made of cast iron or steel.A day before the explosion, the New York-based Center for an Urban Future said in a report that New York's aging infrastructure "could wreak havoc on the city's economy and quality of life." An estimated $47.3 billion would have to be devoted for repairs to maintain safety."The average age of New York City's 6,400 miles of sewage mains is approximately 84 years, for example," wrote the report's author, Adam Forman. "Its 6,800 miles of water mains are approximately 69 years old, and its 6,300 miles of gas mains are 56 years old."Leaks cause the city's top utility company, Con Ed, to lose more than 2% of the gas it delivers to customers each year, according to the report. Additionally, 60% of New York gas mains are made of unprotected steel or cast iron, which are prone to leaks and no longer used by main manufacturers.Con Edison manages one of the oldest gas distribution networks in the country, the report said. The utility's 2,234 miles of gas mains, which serve 833,000 customers in the Bronx, Manhattan and northern Queens, are 53 years old on average.Citing the federal Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, the report said Con Edison experienced 83 leaks for every 100 miles of main in 2012. Corrosion was responsible for 427 of those leaks.In East Harlem, the gas pipe serving the collapsed buildings included a cast iron section dating from 1887, city officials said.A cold and dangerous trap"Cast iron and frost don't mix well," McDonald said.Con Edison officials said the utility received a call reporting a gas leak around 9:13 a.m. Wednesday from a resident at one of the newer buildings on Park Avenue. The utility dispatched a truck two minutes later, but it arrived after the explosion. The caller, as well as other residents on the block, reported smelling gas the night before but did not call the utility at the time.McDonald and other experts said underground pipes are a major source of gas leaks, with the escaping gas typically traveling through the soil and dissipating into the air. During winter, however, soil is hardened by frost, which traps the gas and causes it to travel sideways.With warmer weather, the frost thaws and the soil contracts. Earth movements caused by construction work or other environmental factors can also cause pipes to crack."That expansion and contraction can heave the cast iron pipes up, down, left, right," McDonald said. "Being old doesn't help, obviously. But cast iron is a very fragile material when you bend it or displace it... If a leaky main is close to a building, about 4 or 5 feet away, the gas can work its way into a building."The future is in plasticCon Edison and other utilities around the nation have stepped up efforts to replace cast iron pipelines with plastic ones.The utility is replacing an average of 65 miles of gas mains each year, for the next three years, at a cost of approximately $110 million, Con Ed spokesman Bob McGee said. In addition, the company spends about $500 million a year maintaining and upgrading the natural gas infrastructure."Age alone does not tell you about the condition of the pipe," McGee said in a statement. "Cast iron pipes can be used for hundreds of years if the underpinning and the environment around the pipes is sound."Still, experts said, the old iron pipes beneath many U.S. cities are too vulnerable."Gas companies have been very lucky over the years to not have this happen more," Bob Ackley, a natural gas consultant who runs Massachusetts-based Gas Safety USA, said of the East Harlem explosion. "For every gas company across the northern part of this country, whether it's Chicago, Detroit, Cleveland or Buffalo ... this is a critical time. They have hundreds of broken mains going on around the country now, and they are lucky to catch most."The aging infrastructure of cities such as New York, Boston, Philadelphia and Chicago make them especially susceptible to leaks and explosions, experts said.In January, a study published by researchers at Duke University and Boston University detected 5,893 leaks of methane, the main component of natural gas, rising from the streets of Washington. At 12 of the tested locations, the study found "potentially explosive" concentrations of underground methane -- about 10 times greater than the threshold at which explosions can occur."I see the industry slipping in my opinion in terms of vigilance and protecting the public," McDonald said. "It comes down to what can we cut, what can we avoid doing?"The U.S. Department of Transportation estimates that more than 30,000 miles of cast iron pipe are still being used to deliver gas throughout the nation. The highest percentage of cast-iron mains are in Philadelphia, Washington, Boston and New York City."Let's hope gas operators get through this winter without another incident," Ackley said. "Con Ed and other national gas companies are really nervous right now."