Story highlights Reports of stray dogs being killed in Sochi, Russia, before the Olympics fueled public outrageAmerican skier and silver medalist Gus Kenworthy made the cause famousTen dogs from Sochi arrived in Washington and will be available for adoption soonTen loveable mutts rescued from the streets of Sochi, Russia, arrived in the United States for adoption Thursday, the result of an international outcry over the plight of stray dogs in the 2014 Winter Olympics host city, organizers said.Sochi animal rescue organizations began bringing in dogs from the streets after reports that they were getting rounded up and poisoned circulated around the Games. At the time, American skier Gus Kenworthy, an Olympic silver medalist, made headlines when he pledged to bring four street dogs back to the United States after the Games. Humane Society International worked both on Kenworthy's project and bringing these 10 dogs to the United States."These 10 are representative of some of the dogs that have been removed from the streets and are now up for adoption in Sochi," said Kelly O'Meara, director of HSI companion animals and engagement. "They're the sweetest, most interactive, very friendly dogs, very adoptable that just happen to be unfortunate enough to be living on the street."The group worked with PovoDog Animal Shelter in Sochi and two other organizations to arrange vaccination, documentation and travel for the dogs, who then spent two days in transit."These dogs have had a tremendous journey. It's been almost two days of travel for them. They went from Sochi to Moscow, had a long layover in Moscow, and then the flight to Dulles airport today," O'Meara said. "And as you can tell, they have to be pretty chill to handle it like this. And they did. They all did remarkably well."Photos: Photos: Sochi dogs arrive in U.S. for adoption – Ten stray dogs, displaced during the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, have arrived in the United States for adoption. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Sochi dogs arrive in U.S. for adoption – The dogs have traveled for two days, but have been described by a Human Society International (HSI) employee as "the sweetest, most interactive, very friendly dogs." Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Sochi dogs arrive in U.S. for adoption – The Washington Animal Rescue League shelter partnered with HSI to bring the rescued dogs from Sochi, Russia, to the United States. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Sochi dogs arrive in U.S. for adoption – Two stray dogs from Sochi get acclimated to their 'doggie den'. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Sochi dogs arrive in U.S. for adoption – A stray dog waits in its travel crate at the Washington Animal Rescue League shelter. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Sochi dogs arrive in U.S. for adoption – Washington Animal Rescue League's Miles Gray pets a stray dog from Sochi. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Sochi dogs arrive in U.S. for adoption – Humane Society International worked with other animal shelters in Sochi to arrange vaccination, documentation and travel for the dogs, who then spent two days in transit. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Sochi dogs arrive in U.S. for adoption – Each dog will get a medical evaluation. If all goes well, the dogs could be available for adoption within weeks. Hide Caption 8 of 8JUST WATCHED Silver medalist rescues dogs from Sochi Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Silver medalist rescues dogs from Sochi 04:02JUST WATCHED Are Sochi officials poisoning stray dogs? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Are Sochi officials poisoning stray dogs? 03:09JUST WATCHED Sochi Olympics: 5 moments to remember Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sochi Olympics: 5 moments to remember 01:46The dogs will be housed for the time being in the Washington Animal Rescue League facilities in the nation's capital. Bob Ramin, CEO of the animal league, said the next few days are all about comfort for the animals."These animals are seeing a lot of new things and experiencing a lot of new things, so they're kind of stressed out," Ramin said. "We want to make sure they know they're in a safe place so we've got our staff working with them one on one."Each dog will get a medical evaluation. If all goes well, the dogs could be available for adoption within weeks."In the next couple of days, we'll start socializing them, taking them out on walks with other dogs, and really just treating them like other dogs so they can have that socialization and feel safe," Ramin said.Organizers say that they expect a great deal of interest in these dogs because the public outcry before, during and after the Games. More dogs are expected to arrive in the United States for adoption in the coming days.