Story highlights "It is hard to believe someone 8 years old can fill up a church like this," coach saysKyle Davis' nickname in soccer was "The Wall"He was one of seven children who died Monday at Plaza Towers Elementary SchoolSome 300 mourners crowded inside Eagle Heights Baptist Church here Friday to pay their respects to an elementary school student killed when a tornado churned through nearby Moore, Oklahoma."It is hard to believe someone 8 years old can fill up a church like this," said Landon House, a soccer coachA coffin adorned with soccer jerseys and a spray of flowers shaped like a soccer ball held the body of Kyle Davis, a soccer fanatic at Plaza Towers Elementary School, which was razed by the storm Monday.He was a force on the soccer field. His stocky build earned him a nickname: "The Wall.""Kids just bounced off of him," Davis' grandfather Marvin Dixon said Wednesday. "He just loved being with his Pawpaw and I loved being with him. I'm just going to miss him."Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Kyle Davis , 8, was among 24 who died during the tornado that pummeled Moore, Oklahoma, on Monday, May 20. He was at Plaza Towers Elementary School when the twister hit. His parents called him "Hammy." Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Megan Futrell , 29, was found protecting her infant son, Case. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Case Futrell , 4 months, was found dead with his mother. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Jenae Hornsby , 9, was a third-grader at Plaza Towers. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Tawuana Robinson called her daughter as the tornado hovered and told her she was in a closet. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Terri Long, 49, died in the twister. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Sydnee Vargyas, 7 months, died in the twister. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Karrina Vargyas, 4, died in the twister. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Antonia Candelaria, 9, died in the twister. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Sydney Angle, 9, died in the twister. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Emily Conatzer, 9, died in the twister. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Nicolas McCabe, 9, died in the twister. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Leslie Johnson died in the twister. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Christopher Legg, 9, died in the twister. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Deanna Ward, 70, died in the twister. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Randy Smith, 39, died in the twister. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Cindy Plumley, 45, died in the twister. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Hemant Bhonde died in the twister. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Jenny Neely, 38, died in the twister. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Shannon Quick,40, was at home with her mother and two boys when the tornado struck. She died from injuries suffered from debris cutting open her midsection. Hide Caption 20 of 20Kyle was among 24 people -- 10 of them children -- who lost their lives Monday when a massive tornado hit Moore. Seven children died at Plaza Towers Elementary School.His teacher in kindergarten and second grade struggled to maintain her composure. "Kyle was always a thoughtful child in my classroom," said Emily Eischen, who likened the "little blue-eyed, blond-hair boy" to her own son. "My heart aches."Davis had attended a different church, but the number of attendees required a larger facility.Two hours before the funeral began, the church parking lot was already full. Dozens of children wore soccer uniforms in support of their fallen teammate.Many of those who spoke during the service cited Kyle's love of soccer and reputation for doling out hugs to anyone willing to accept them.A soccer ball was passed around for attendees to sign.His family wore jerseys bearing Kyle's number, 16, and a local soccer group announced it would retire that number as a gesture of support."A coach receives as much from the kids as the kids receive from the coach," said Josh White, who coached Kyle. "I saw miracles in action. Thank you for letting me witness the miracle of Kyle."The Rev. Dewayne Klepper said Kyle's last words to his mother were, "I love you, Mama."