Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Kyle Davis , 8, was among 24 who died during the tornado that pummeled Moore, Oklahoma, on Monday, May 20. He was at Plaza Towers Elementary School when the twister hit. His parents called him "Hammy." Hide Caption 1 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Megan Futrell , 29, was found protecting her infant son, Case. Hide Caption 2 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Case Futrell , 4 months, was found dead with his mother. Hide Caption 3 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Jenae Hornsby , 9, was a third-grader at Plaza Towers. Hide Caption 4 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Tawuana Robinson called her daughter as the tornado hovered and told her she was in a closet. Hide Caption 5 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Terri Long, 49, died in the twister. Hide Caption 6 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Sydnee Vargyas, 7 months, died in the twister. Hide Caption 7 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Karrina Vargyas, 4, died in the twister. Hide Caption 8 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Antonia Candelaria, 9, died in the twister. Hide Caption 9 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Sydney Angle, 9, died in the twister. Hide Caption 10 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Emily Conatzer, 9, died in the twister. Hide Caption 11 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Nicolas McCabe, 9, died in the twister. Hide Caption 12 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Leslie Johnson died in the twister. Hide Caption 13 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Christopher Legg, 9, died in the twister. Hide Caption 14 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Deanna Ward, 70, died in the twister. Hide Caption 15 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Randy Smith, 39, died in the twister. Hide Caption 16 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Cindy Plumley, 45, died in the twister. Hide Caption 17 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Hemant Bhonde died in the twister. Hide Caption 18 of 20Photos: Victims of the Oklahoma tornado Victims of the Oklahoma tornado – Jenny Neely, 38, died in the twister. Hide Caption 19 of 20