Story highlights People hold up picture of a graduate's mom who died in the tornadoThree high school classes in Moore, Oklahoma, have their graduation ceremonies"It's ... the closing of one chapter and the opening of another," a student saysFunerals continue to be held for some of the 24 killedFive days ago, Miranda Mann huddled in a science classroom at Southmoore High School. She should have been filed with pride, relief and excitement about her upcoming graduation. Instead, she was filled with fear as a devastating tornado powered through her central Oklahoma city.The 18-year-old has been literally picking up the pieces of her life since.Her house was unrecognizable, except for her and her mother's cars, after the twister destroyed it Monday.Her family sifted through rubble and salvaged some things, only to see many of them -- such as her prized book collection -- ruined by torrential rains.Mann doesn't want to live in Moore, wary of a place that's been hit by two EF5 tornadoes -- the strongest possible -- over the past 14 years. There's been plenty of time, and way too many reasons, for tears.JUST WATCHED Loved ones remember tornado victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Loved ones remember tornado victims 01:36Photos: Living in tornado alley Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Frieda Stanley sits in what was once her living room. Her Oklahoma City neighborhood was hit by a deadly twister in May 1999 and again on Monday. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – The nameless neighborhood, near SW 149 and May Avenue in Oklahoma City, sits on the spot where the 1999 and 2013 tornado paths intersect. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Lisa Brown helps her former colleague Kay Taylor pull belongings from the wreckage of her home. Taylor, a former PE teacher and school counselor, was most concerned about finding her collections of pennies, gumball machines and ladybug figures. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Kay Taylor, 63, moved into her home here after the 1999 tornado. She plans to rebuild. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Families on Tuesday and Wednesday searched for recognizable objects hidden in the anonymous rubble. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Cheryl Richeson survived Monday's tornado by hiding out in her family's safe room, which is built to withstand Oklahoma's severe weather. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Some people in this neighborhood say they will rebuild. Others aren't sure they trust the skies here. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – George Stanley recorded the tornado on his iPhone before waiting out the storm in his neighbor's underground storm shelter. He doesn't plan to leave. "It's my paradise out here," he said. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Residents talked about how they survived this storm and the 1999 tornado as they pulled photos and other personal belongings from their homes. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Kay Taylor lives next door to her 94-year-old aunt, whose home was destroyed by tornadoes in 1999 and this week. Both women plan to stay on this land. Hide Caption 10 of 10Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Heather Shannon helps a friend find family photos and other keepsakes at her home in Moore, Oklahoma, on May 22. People who lost their homes to the tornado on Monday continue to search through the rubble in hopes of finding some of their belongings. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Jon Cook salvaged a flag that was presented to his family when his grandfather, a Korean War veteran, passed away. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Payton Jo Lindsey sits on her grandmother's hope chest amid the ruins where her family's home once stood. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Aidan Fox, 9, was happy to find a baseball bat behind his grandparents' house in Moore on May 22. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Lori Lacey found her dog Lillie two days after the tornado destroyed her home. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Chelsea and Shane Stanfield discovered some family photos of them with their son, Lane. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Kelcy Trowbridge searches for family keepsakes in the rubble of her home. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Thomas and Kelcy Trowbridge found a basket adorned with footprints from one of their two children. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Jennifer Nutty-Marquez, left, and Jamie Plunk saved a poster of Nutty-Marquez's son, Caleb, from the wreckage of their home. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Carolyn Booher found her husband's wedding ring and several photos of her parents in the debris. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Jason Keen and his wife, Katy, search through the wreckage in a field of debris behind their house. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Thomas and Lisa Jones located some family photos of them and their son, Anthony. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Scott, left, and Buddy Whitmore recovered a bowl that belonged to their grandmother. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – The items salvaged by Scott and Jill Ashbaugh included a photo of their 2-year-old son, Carter, and one of their wedding photos. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Jill Ashbaugh works to remove her family's recovered belongings from their home. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Trisha Jones and her fiance, Shaun Samuel, recovered a photo collage that Trisha received as a graduation gift. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – A flag hangs from a tree in a neighborhood in Moore that was in the direct path of the Oklahoma tornado. Hide Caption 17 of 17But finally ... finally, Saturday was a time to smile."My family is all here, we get to be together," Mann said about her graduation at Oklahoma City's Cox Convention Center. "(You can) relax and let your hair down, because you know that we're not going back to the house today. We're not going to see that."Southmoore High's seniors were one of three classes celebrating their commencement ceremonies at the facility. The date had been set for months, and it wasn't moved after the storm killed 24 people, injured more than 375 others and damaged 12,000 residences in and around the metropolitan area.Jake Spradling is glad the show went on. Like Mann, he's a Southmoore High senior; like her, he no longer has a place to call home.The hours since Monday have been "overwhelming," Spradling admitted, though he said the outpouring of support -- offers to bunk early at Northwestern Oklahoma State University where he'll head this fall, dozens of text messages and "calls out of the wazoo" with offers of help -- have made a big difference.He knows people who lost family members, and many more who lost homes. He knows that they need time to plan and attend funerals, to clean up debris, to figure out what happens next.Even with all that, "I'm glad it's today," Spradling said. "It means to me that we're not going on different routes."We're staying on the same path that we were meant to be on."Graduation festivities were infused by the tragedy, including speakers' remarks and other poignant reminders. One happened when Southmoore's Alyson Costilla walked across the stage to get her diploma and about a dozen people in the crowd stood up and held up pictures of her mother Terri Long, who died in a 7-Eleven ravaged by the powerful winds.Outside the convention center, the seniors from Southmoore, Westmoore and Moore high schools won't have to go far to be reminded of the devastation.Funeral homes and churches are busy with services for those killed.Ten of those killed were children, including seven second- and third-graders at Plaza Towers Elementary School. After three funerals earlier in the week, two more of those students were to be buried Saturday.Transforming Moore back into the city it had been won't be easy. Its public schools alone suffered $45 million in damage, including the two elementary schools that were leveled. Insurance claims related to Monday's storm will likely top $2 billion, according to Kelly Collins from the Oklahoma Insurance Department.But residents aren't doing it all alone.JUST WATCHED Hear 911 tapes from Oklahoma Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hear 911 tapes from Oklahoma 02:37Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Sean Xuereb recovers a dog from the rubble of a home that was destroyed by the massive tornado that hit Moore, Oklahoma, on Monday, May 20. A website has been set up to help lost and found pets , and shelters have been set up to help displaced and injured animals. For ways to help, visit CNN.com/impact. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Volunteer Paula McCoart feeds a dog at a shelter for displaced pets on Thursday, May 23. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – A cat rests with her kittens at a shelter on May 23. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Volunteer Tiffany Pacheco holds a small dog at an animal shelter on May 23. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – A dog gets checked out by veterinarian Dr. Nancy Newcomb after it was found in the rubble of a house on May 23. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – A dog rests in a cage at an animal shelter on May 23. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Beberly Berenner holds her family dog Lillie, who was dug out of their tornado-devastated home by a neighbor. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Dogs sit in cages at a shelter for displaced pets on May 23. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Notes written by the vet are left on the cage of a dog while he rests at an animal shelter on May 23. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Yolanda Soliz, left, checks a dog as she searches for her pets, lost during the May 20 tornado. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Farrell Ramsey holds his dog Tiger after he found him at an animal shelter on May 23. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – A dog rests in a cage at an animal shelter in Moore. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – June Simson embraces her cat Sammi after she found him standing on the rubble of her destroyed home on May 21. Hide Caption 13 of 13JUST WATCHED OKC twisters: 15 years in 2 minutes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH OKC twisters: 15 years in 2 minutes 02:39Besides the presence of FEMA representatives and other public officials on the ground, they've had friends, relatives, even strangers come out to help.Sharon Liston has spent the last 25 years teaching math at Westmoore High, from which she's retiring after 40 years total in the profession.On Friday, a day before her school's graduation, a caravan of students arrived at her home to clean up her 3-acre property."It looked like a wall of students with trash cans and trash sacks, and they literally picked up every stick within that three acres there," Liston said.That kind of help makes it easier for Moore's residents to move on from this horrific week.Saturday's graduation ceremonies are similar, in that way. It means the end of one thing, and the beginning of another. A fresh start."It's just the closing of one chapter and the opening of another," Spradling said. "...It's one of those flipping of the pages that means a lot to everybody here."