Story highlights Massachusetts group raising money to ship body overseasOfficial: Tamerlan Tsarnaev accessed Inspire magazine on a home computerPeter Stefan says he is struggling to find a grave for TsarnaevCambridge's city manager says he won't allow Tsarnaev's burial in his cityThere may not be a single cemetery in Massachusetts or in the entire country that is willing to be Tamerlan Tsarnaev's final resting place, a funeral director told CNN on Monday.And that has left Peter Stefan in a very difficult spot."I think (the cemeteries that have been asked) probably fear reprisals from people who have loved ones being buried there, people who may potentially buy lots there," the funeral director said.Tsarnaev and his younger brother, Dzhokhar, are accused of setting off two deadly explosions at the Boston Marathon in April.The funeral director says he is trying to do everything he can, but he's struggling."I think a lot of the people don't understand," Stefan said. "And it's an emotional problem, obviously."Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Dias Kadyrbayev, left, with Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsamaev in a picture taken from the social media site VK.com. Kadyrbayev is expected to plead guilty August 21 to charges in connection with removing a backpack and computer from Tsamaev's dorm room after the April 2013 bombing, according to a defense lawyer. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed during the shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19, 2013. He is pictured here at the 2010 New England Golden Gloves. Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was captured in a Boston suburb on April 19, 2013, after a manhunt that shut down the city. In July, he pleaded not guilty to killing four people and wounding more than 200. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – From left, Azamat Tazhayakov and Dias Kadyrbayev went with Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to Times Square in this photo taken from the social media site VK.com. A federal grand jury charged Tazhayakov and Kadyrbayev with obstructing justice and conspiracy to obstruct justice relating to the removal of a backpack from Tsarnaev's dorm room after the bombings. Tazhayakov was convicted of conspiracy and obstruction charges in July 2014. He faces up to 25 years in prison at his sentencing in October. He has filed an appeal. Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Robel Phillipos, a U.S. citizen, was also arrested on May 1, 2013 . He was charged with lying to federal agents about the bombing, according to court papers. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Phillipos, Tazhayakov and Kadyrbayev are accused of removing items from Tsarnaev's dorm room after the bombings on April 15, 2013. The items they took included a backpack containing fireworks that had been "opened and emptied of powder," according to the affidavit. Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The FBI released photos and video on April 18, 2013, of two men identified as Suspect 1 and Suspect 2 in the deadly bombings at the Boston Marathon. They were later identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, and his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26. Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Boston Police released surveillance images of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev at a convenience store on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The FBI tweeted this photo on April 19, 2013, and urged Watertown residents to stay indoors as they searched for the second suspect. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The FBI released photos and video on April 18, 2013, of two men it called suspects in the deadly bombings and pleaded for public help in identifying them. The men were photographed walking together near the finish line. Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – A man identified as Suspect 2 appeared in this photograph by bystander David Green, who took the photo after completing the Boston Marathon. Green submitted the photo to the FBI, he told Piers Morgan in an interview. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The man identified as Suspect 2 appears in a tighter crop of David Green's photo. Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Authorities later identified Suspect 1 as Tamerlan Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 was identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 1 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 1 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 1 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Both suspects are seen walking through the crowd. Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – A photo released by the FBI highlights Suspect 2. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – A photo released by the FBI highlights Suspect 2. Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 walks through the crowd. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 23 of 23JUST WATCHED Funeral director: We should be commended Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Funeral director: We should be commended 00:41JUST WATCHED Where will Tamerlan Tsarnaev be buried? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Where will Tamerlan Tsarnaev be buried? 02:06JUST WATCHED Group wants Tsarnaev burial outside U.S. Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Group wants Tsarnaev burial outside U.S. 02:09But, "We have to bury this guy," he continued. "Whoever he is, in this country, we bury people."But outside the funeral home in Worcester, about 40 miles west of downtown Boston, picketers denounced plans to bury the marathon bomb suspect in their community. One held a sign that read, "Bury the garbage in the landfill."William Breault, chairman of a Worcester civic group, told CNN that Stefan "made a big mistake" agreeing to accept the remains, "and now we're in a situation where nobody wants to take him.""I not only don't want to see him buried in Worcester, Massachusetts, very close to where I live, I don't think he should be buried in the state," Breault said. He said his organization, the Main South Alliance for Public Safety, is trying to raise up to $5,000 to have Tsarnaev's body shipped overseas."He's not a citizen, he shouldn't be given rights," Breault said.Meanwhile on Monday, a law enforcement official who spoke to CNN said that investigators believe that Tsarnaev accessed Inspire magazine -- an English-language magazine published by al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula -- on a computer in the apartment where he and his wife lived.The Inspire material had instructions on bomb-making, the official said. Asked whether the computer belonged to the husband, his wife, or whether it was shared, the official said only that investigators believe the husband was accessing that material.What are the options?It may be possible to look to the past for guidance on how to handle the remains of notorious figures.President John F. Kennedy's assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald, is buried in the Dallas area, where he lived before shooting Kennedy in 1963. Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh's ashes were scattered after his execution, though where is a mystery. The body of Abraham Lincoln's killer, John Wilkes Booth, lies in an unmarked grave in a Baltimore cemetery where other members of his family are buried.Cremation is not an option because Islam does not allow it, according to Naeem Baig of the Islamic Circle of North America . However, it would not violate Islamic tradition to bury Tsarnaev in an unmarked grave, which may reduce the odds that a cemetery would suffer a backlash for providing space.JUST WATCHED Funeral home shares cause of death Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Funeral home shares cause of death 01:40JUST WATCHED Burying the notorious Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Burying the notorious 02:02JUST WATCHED Source: Suspects targeted July 4th event Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Source: Suspects targeted July 4th event 01:42JUST WATCHED Tamerlan Tsarnaev's body claimed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tamerlan Tsarnaev's body claimed 01:33In fact, it's customary for Muslims to forgo gravestones, according to John Esposito , a professor of international affairs and Islamic studies at Georgetown University."That burial could be carried out by simply saying he was buried in a cemetery and burying him without a marker," Esposito said.Some might ask why there hasn't been a move to bury Tsarnaev at sea, the way Osama bin Laden was buried. First, bin Laden's body was in the possession of the federal government, which isn't the case with Tsarnaev's body.Secondly, as Baig points out, it wasn't a concern that relatives of bin Laden should be consulted. The United States asked Saudi Arabia if officials objected to burying bin Laden at sea. The Saudis did not.A family matterIn Tsarnaev's case, his parents are alive and in the Russian region of Dagestan. But Tamerlan Tsarnaev held a passport from the former Soviet republic of Kyrgyzstan, where he was born, so his remains can't be sent to Russia, said Zaurbek Sadakhanov, a lawyer for the parents.Tsarnaev had requested a Russian passport but had not received one, Sadakhanov said. His parents have not asked that his body be brought to Russia -- and in any event, Russian law says the bodies of "terrorists" killed by government forces should be buried in an undisclosed location, without the family being notified of the site, he said.Esposito said that although an unmarked grave may not violate Islamic practices, it could certainly run afoul of the courtesy of getting Tsarnaev's parents' permission to conduct their son's burial that way.On Monday afternoon at a media event, Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick stressed that the fate of Tsarnaev's body rests with his family."First of all, this isn't a state or a federal issue. It's the family's issue," the governor said, responding to a reporter's question. "And the family has some options. I assume they will make a decision soon. I hope they do. I think everybody is feeling upset about what happened."A reporter asked: "Do communities have a right to refuse the body?""I don't know about right," Patrick answered. "I think, if you're asking about legal rights and so forth, I don't know the answer to that. But I understand that the family does have some options, and I expect they will make a decision soon."Asked if he opposed burying Tsarnaev in Massachusetts, Patrick said, "I don't have a comment about that or a point of view."On Sunday, Tsarnaev's uncle Ruslan Tsarni was the only relative at Stefan's funeral home.Tsarni, who decried the bombing suspects as "losers" after the attacks, performed the Islamic tradition of preparing a body for burial, washing and shrouding it.He said he had not been in contact with Katherine Russell, his nephew's widow."I'm left alone to deal with this matter," Tsarni said. "And I want to stress that Tamerlan Tsarnaev has no other place to be buried. There's no other place who would accept his body."Cambridge clashTsarnaev's uncle wants him buried in Cambridge, Massachusetts, arguing that it's his nephew's home. "He grew up here," Tsarni said.But town officials have strongly rejected the idea."The difficult and stressful efforts of the citizens of the City of Cambridge to return to a peaceful life would be adversely impacted by the turmoil, protests, and widespread media presence at such an interment," City Manager Robert W. Healy said in a statement Sunday.Stefan suggested Monday that he and the family are considering appealing to a Muslim cemetery outside Massachusetts. And yet, that might not work either, he fears."I feel the same problem exists when the neighbors and the people find out what we're doing," Stefan said.He added that most of the cemeteries in Massachusetts are nonsectarian with a section set aside for Muslims."The only true Muslim cemetery is in Connecticut," he said, without naming the cemetery he was referring to."At this point, any outcome would be better than nothing," Stefan said.And he will continue to try to bring this painful experience -- for everyone -- to an end.Stefan has said that if no grave site is found, he plans to ask the U.S. government to find one."This is a big problem, and somebody has to step in and say, 'Look, we're going to have to do something here,' " he said.