Story highlights The cause of the accident is not clear; NTSB will investigateOfficials believe no toxic inhalants were aboardDriver of truck is only person injuredWitness: 'Deafening' explosion followed derailmentA CSX freight train collided with a commercial truck and derailed in the Baltimore area Tuesday, officials said, seriously injuring the truck's driver and leading to an explosion that a witness said could be felt blocks away.The crash happened in Rosedale, just to the east of Baltimore, firefighter Jonathan Meehan of Baltimore County said. The truck driver was taken to a hospital and is in serious but stable condition.An explosion and fire followed, sending up plumes of black smoke.But officials said there was little cause for concern."CSX indicates that there is no toxic inhalants, so we do not believe there is any substantial risk to the community," Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz told reporters.Photos: Maryland train derails, triggers explosion Photos: Maryland train derails, triggers explosion Maryland train derails, triggers explosion – Smoke billows from a train derailment that caused a major explosion in the Rosedale neighborhood outside of Baltimore on Tuesday, May 28. A CSX freight train collided with a commercial truck and derailed leading to an explosion that a witness said could be felt blocks away. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Maryland train derails, triggers explosion Maryland train derails, triggers explosion – Workers gather around as damaged train cars from the derailment lie strewn along the tracks. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Maryland train derails, triggers explosion Maryland train derails, triggers explosion – The windows of a nearby business in Rosedale were blown out from the explosion. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Maryland train derails, triggers explosion Maryland train derails, triggers explosion – Onlookers watch the event unfold as black smoke billows into the sky. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Maryland train derails, triggers explosion Maryland train derails, triggers explosion – A helicopter circles above the incident as black smoke fills the air. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Maryland train derails, triggers explosion Maryland train derails, triggers explosion – The truck's driver was seriously injured and taken to a nearby hospital. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Maryland train derails, triggers explosion Maryland train derails, triggers explosion – Several of the train cars are off the track as white and black smoke rises in separate columns from the wreckage. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Maryland train derails, triggers explosion Maryland train derails, triggers explosion – Smoke from the explosion fills the sky in Rosedale, just east of Baltimore. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Maryland train derails, triggers explosion Maryland train derails, triggers explosion – Onlookers stand at a distance as first responders investigate the possibility of toxic chemicals in the explosion. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Maryland train derails, triggers explosion Maryland train derails, triggers explosion – The explosion caused large plumes of smoke that could be seen from miles away. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Maryland train derails, triggers explosion Maryland train derails, triggers explosion – Fire and smoke rise from the explosion site as debris and train cars burn. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Maryland train derails, triggers explosion Maryland train derails, triggers explosion – CNN iReporter Lori Saladino took this photo of the large plume of smoke caused by the explosion filling the sky. Hide Caption 12 of 12JUST WATCHED See explosion after train derails Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See explosion after train derails 00:38JUST WATCHED Explosion surprises man filming fire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Explosion surprises man filming fire 01:55He said multiple buildings were damaged.Firefighters brought the blaze under control late Tuesday, Capt. Bruce Schultz with Baltimore County Fire Department said.As a precaution, authorities asked residents in some 60 to 70 homes to evacuate if they felt unsafe."We're going to look at establishing a shelter here in Rosedale. We'll provide transportation, but it's all voluntary," Hohman said.The cause of the accident was not immediately clear. The National Transportation Safety Board is sending a team to investigate.Video from CNN affiliate WBAL showed at least five of the train's cars off the track, and white and black smoke rising in separate columns from the wreckage.Kevin Lindemann told CNN he was working in Baltimore Windustrial, a plumbing supply warehouse along the track, when he felt something "like an earthquake." He went to a window."The first thing you see is two or three train cars flipped over the side, sliding down the track," said Lindemann, a sales representative at the warehouse, which he said is a few blocks from the nearest train-road intersection.Seeing one of the train's cars on fire, Lindemann and the other people in the warehouse left the building and drove away. The explosion happened after he and the others congregated a few blocks away, he said."I couldn't see (the explosion) directly, but it was deafening," he said. "It almost forced you to your knees. There were a couple people that were knocked down by it."The warehouse appeared to be damaged from the blast, Lindemann said after seeing aerial video of the crash site on TV.CNN iReporter Charlotte Curtis sent video of thick smoke with sirens wailing in the background. She said she was walking her puppy when she heard a big boom.The puppy went down on her belly, scared."It was huge, louder than any race car. It felt like it just knocked me in my back," Curtis said.