Story highlights Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor warns of profiling when investigating terrorShe says using racial or ethnic criteria to isolate suspects can pose dangersRacial profiling is a tactic criticized by many in the civil rights communitySotomayor is the first Latina justice on the Supreme Court, has talked about ethnic stereotypingSupreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor is warning about the dangers of racial profiling, especially when investigating terror incidents like the Boston Marathon bombing.Speaking at the dedication of a court building in Denver on Thursday, Sotomayor said using racial or ethnic criteria to isolate criminal suspects or potential wrongdoers "has dangers if what you're doing is using profiling without thought.""If you've been following news about the Boston bombing and criticisms -- whether they're justified or not -- about following up on the activities of the two young men who were [allegedly] involved. Is that profiling? Could be. Is it something you can't just ignore? Maybe, sometimes not. It's a fine line society walks in trying to be fair."Police who apply those standards alone to isolate criminals "means you're going to be wrong most of the time. Because that's not the way the world works," she told a student who asked her about law enforcement use of racial profiling, a tactic criticized by many in the civil rights community.Bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was captured two weeks ago and has been charged with use of a weapon of mass destruction to commit an act of terror, which could carry the death penalty.JUST WATCHED Boston bomb survivor: I am blessed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boston bomb survivor: I am blessed 05:38JUST WATCHED Salman Rushdie on the Boston bombers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Salman Rushdie on the Boston bombers 02:07JUST WATCHED First security change after Boston Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH First security change after Boston 04:25His brother, Tamerlan, 26, died following a shootout with police three days after the twin blasts on April 15 that killed three people and injured 260 others.The ethnic Chechens had come to the United States years earlier and Dzhokhar was an American citizen.Three of his college friends were separately charged with federal crimes. Two of them are Kazakh natives originally in the United States on student visas.They are accused of conspiring to discard potentially incriminating items from the younger Tsarnaev's dorm room at the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth.A federal source with knowledge of the matter tells CNN the Department of Homeland Security is now requiring that U.S. Customs verify that all foreign students have a valid visa before they're allowed to enter the United States.The timing of the policy change as well as a renewed focus on student immigrants generally, has questions about whether people who come here from certain countries and regions will be singled out for special scrutiny due to fallout from the Boston bombing.When promoting her new autobiography, "My Beloved World," Sotomayor in January told CNN about her own youthful experiences of ethnic stereotyping. She described how she felt stung by comments from adults that she said were aimed at her as a student high-achiever, simply because she was Hispanic."My book talks about the negative aspects" of feeling discriminated and stigmatized, Sotomayor said."The stereotypes, the feelings -- and I use the word in my book -- of being expected to feel shame," she said.Sotomayor, 58, was nominated by President Barack Obama to become the first Latina Supreme Court justice in 2009.