Story highlights A man finds $2,000 buried in the rubble of his destroyed homeA huge public memorial Sunday "was probably the start of healing for the community"Moore's public schools suffered $45 million in damageObama visits disaster-stricken areas and calls for donations to the American Red CrossOne week after a tornado devastated the lives and landscape of Moore, much of the city seems frozen in time. But despite the staggering wreckage that still litters the ground, the road to recovery is well under way.Here's the latest on the Oklahoma tornado aftermath.In the rubble, a shocking findDesperately digging through the rubble where his house once stood, Tom Bridges made a shocking find on Monday: $2,000 worth of crisp bills.He had kept the money in an envelope tucked away atop a window sill -- a place hidden from view and seemingly safe. But when last week's storm blasted his house to bits, the money went missing.Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A message is left by a homeowner who lost his home in the May 20 tornado on Monday, May 27, in Moore, Oklahoma. View more photos of the aftermath in the region and another gallery of aerial shots of the damage Hide Caption 1 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Left to right, Jaqi Castro, Angelica Morris-Smith and Cetoria Petties walk through a tornado ravaged neighborhood handing out supplies to residents and fellow volunteers on May 27. Hide Caption 2 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Residents gather in the First Baptist Church for the Oklahoma Strong memorial service on Sunday, May 26, to honor victims of the recent deadly tornado in Moore, Oklahoma. Hide Caption 3 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Preschooler Keltin Marazzi, front center, stands on stage with other school children during the memorial service. Hide Caption 4 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin addresses the audience on May 26. Hide Caption 5 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Tornado victims Christa and Russell Smith hug their children, Evan and Justin Smith, as the service takes place. Hide Caption 6 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Plaza Towers Elementary School teacher Jennifer Doan is comforted by her fiance, Nyle Rogers, on May 26. Hide Caption 7 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – President Barack Obama is greeted as he tours the tornado-ravaged area near Moore, Oklahoma, on Sunday, May 26. Hide Caption 8 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Volunteers bow their heads in reverence on Saturday, May 25, in front of a memorial at the Plaza Towers Elementary School where seven children died during the devastating tornado, in Moore, Oklahoma, on May 20. Hide Caption 9 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Mike Hitch prepares to pull a classic Corvette from under the debris of a home destroyed by Monday's tornado on May 25. Hide Caption 10 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Mike Hitch loads a salvaged Corvette pulled from the rubble onto a tow truck in Moore on May 25. Hide Caption 11 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Eunice Lassiter sits in the driveway of a friend's tornado-damaged home on May 25 in Moore. Hide Caption 12 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A volunteer signs a cross on May 25 at a makeshift memorial outside of the destroyed Plaza Towers Elementary School where seven children were killed in Monday's tornado in Moore. Hide Caption 13 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Volunteers unload donated items for tornado victims at the Yellow Rose Theater on May 25 in Moore. Hide Caption 14 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Volunteer Brittany Pendergraft organizes donated tornado relief items inside the Yellow Rose Theater on May 25 in Moore. Hide Caption 15 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Eddie Jones of the Christian Life Center in Rolla, Missouri, cooks for residents and volunteers helping with tornado relief on May 25 in Moore. Hide Caption 16 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Carol Kawaykla holds a picture of her mother she found in the rubble of her tornado-devastated home in Moore, Oklahoma, on May 24. Hide Caption 17 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – The sun sets over debris from houses littering the ground in Moore, Oklahoma, on Thursday, May 23, three days after the town was damaged by a tornado. Hide Caption 18 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Debris is scattered across a driveway on May 23. Severe thunderstorms barreled through this Oklahoma City suburb at dawn Thursday, complicating cleanup efforts. Hide Caption 19 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Lightning strikes during a thunderstorm as people search for items that can be saved from their devastated home on May 23. Hide Caption 20 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A devastated neighborhood is seen on May 23 in Moore. Hide Caption 21 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A woman searches for belongings at a home on May 22 in Moore. Hide Caption 22 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Michael Pritz swings a golf club while taking a break from helping his friend to salvage belongings on May 22. Hide Caption 23 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Debris litters what remains of a classroom at Plaza Towers Elementary School on May 22. Seven children died at the school in Monday's tornado. Hide Caption 24 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A makeshift shelter stands next to a home destroyed by the tornado on May 22. Hide Caption 25 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Casey Angle walks on the bunk bed she shared with her sister Sydney, who was among the students killed at Plaza Towers Elementary School during the tornado. Hide Caption 26 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Tara McDonald shows some items salvaged from her home on May 22. Hide Caption 27 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A swing set sits warped at Plaza Towers Elementary School on May 22. Hide Caption 28 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Plaza Towers Elementary School students Monica Boyd and Lavontey Rodriguez sit at the parking lot of their tornado devastated school. Hide Caption 29 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Travis French and his wife, Amy, of Capitol Hill Baptist Church hand out fresh fruit, water and hygiene packs to Thomas and Kelcy Trowbridge. Hide Caption 30 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Teachers from Fairview Elementary School help clean up former school counselor Kay Taylor's home in south Oklahoma City on May 22, two days after an extremely powerful tornado tore through Moore, Oklahoma. Hide Caption 31 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Jake English, 12, cleans up retired school counselor Kay Taylor's home on May 22 in south Oklahoma City, just west of Moore. The storm was part of a tornado outbreak that began in the Midwest and Plains on Sunday, May 19. Hide Caption 32 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A man talks on his cell phone in front of a destroyed house on May 22. Hide Caption 33 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A man looks through a pile of clothing at a roadside relief camp on May 22 in Moore. Hide Caption 34 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Volunteers form a chain to retrieve clothing and other household items on May 22. Hide Caption 35 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Jon Booth moves a piece of debris from his mother's destroyed home across the street from Plaza Towers Elementary School on May 22. Hide Caption 36 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Matt Johnson salvages items from his grandparents' home on Tuesday, May 21. Hide Caption 37 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – An aerial view of the destruction on May 21. Hide Caption 38 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – The storm, which touched down near Newcastle, Oklahoma, spanned 1.3 miles. Some areas along the path were completely flattened. Hide Caption 39 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Two men fold an American flag found in the debris of a house on May 21 in Moore. Hide Caption 40 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A young girl stands among the rubble outside Briarwood Elementary School on May 21. Hide Caption 41 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A doll covered in dirt is among the rubble scattered throughout a neighborhood in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 42 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Bonnie Lolofie, left, and Ashley Do carry belongings from their apartment, which has no power, on May 21. Hide Caption 43 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Residents salvage belongings from their demolished homes in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 44 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Kelli Kannady weeps after finding a box of photographs of her late husband in the rubble near where her home once stood in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 45 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Tufts of pink insulation hang from the rafters of a store in Moore on May 21 that was destroyed in the storm. Hide Caption 46 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Natalie Johnson searches through her mother's destroyed car outside Briarwood Elementary School in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 47 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Rescuers dig out a house in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 48 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – June Simson embraces her cat Sammi after she found him standing among the rubble of her destroyed home in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 49 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A man stands on the roof of a destroyed home in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 50 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A man helps move a resident's belongings from a destroyed home on May 21 in Moore. Hide Caption 51 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Air Force Airman First Class Justin Acord sifts through the rubble of his father-in-law's home in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 52 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – People recover belongings from the rubble of a home in Moore. Hide Caption 53 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – People sort through a leveled home in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 54 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Debris lies among headstones in the Moore Cemetery on May 21. Hide Caption 55 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Workers clean up the Warren movie theater in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 56 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Oklahoma City Mayor Mick Cornett surveys damage in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 57 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Piles of debris lie around the north side of Plaza Towers Elementary School in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 58 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – As dawn breaks, storm clouds roll in over a devastated neighborhood in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 59 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Members of the Oklahoma National Guard look for survivors in rubble in Moore on May 21. Hide Caption 60 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A National Guardsman assists in the search for victims on May 21. Hide Caption 61 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A rescue worker leads a horse from the wreckage of a day care center and barns on Monday, May 20, in Moore. Hide Caption 62 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Men tie an American flag on debris in a neighborhood off Telephone Road in Moore on May 20. Hide Caption 63 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Children wait for their parents to arrive at Briarwood Elementary School in south Oklahoma City on May 20. Hide Caption 64 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Teachers carry children away from Briarwood Elementary School on May 20. Hide Caption 65 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Teachers lead children away from Briarwood Elementary School on May 20. Read more about the photo. Hide Caption 66 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A fire official drives through the rubble of Moore Medical Center on May 20. Hide Caption 67 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Abby Madi, left, and Peterson Zatterlee comfort Zatterlee's dog, Rippy, on Monday, May 20, in Moore. Hide Caption 68 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A woman is treated for her injuries on May 20 at a triage area set up for the wounded. Hide Caption 69 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Two girls stand in rubble in Moore. Hide Caption 70 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Rescue workers help free one of more than a dozen people who were trapped at a medical center in Moore on May 20. Hide Caption 71 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Oklahoma City firefighters check on Gene Tripp on May 20 as he sits in his rocking chair where his home once stood. Hide Caption 72 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A nurse helps an older man who suffered a head injury on May 20 in Moore. Hide Caption 73 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Cars marked with an orange X, meaning they have been checked for occupants, are piled up in front of the entrance to the damaged Moore Medical Center on May 20. Hide Caption 74 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Jim Routon hugs his neighbor, 7-year-old Hezekiah, after the tornado strikes on May 20. An earlier version of this caption incorrectly stated that Routon was Hezekiah's teacher. See an interview with the pair. Hide Caption 75 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – People look through the wreckage of their neighborhood after a tornado struck Moore, Oklahoma, on May 20. Hide Caption 76 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Dana Ulepich searches inside a room left standing at the back of her destroyed house in Moore on May 20. Hide Caption 77 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Residents look through the debris in Moore on May 20. Hide Caption 78 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A man looks through the remains of a home after the massive tornado struck Moore on May 20. Hide Caption 79 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A woman is transported on a stretcher after she was rescued from the damaged medical center in Moore on May 20. Hide Caption 80 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A woman walks through debris in Moore on May 20. Hide Caption 81 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A man is taken away from the IMAX Theater in Moore that was used as a triage center on May 20. Hide Caption 82 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A girl wraps herself in a blanket near the Moore Hospital on May 20. Hide Caption 83 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A nurse walks by the destruction at a Moore hospital on May 20. Hide Caption 84 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Destroyed cars scatter the landscape in Moore, Oklahoma, where hundreds of homes and buildings were put to ruin on May 20. Hide Caption 85 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A woman with an arm injury is helped on May 20 in Moore. Hide Caption 86 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Extensive damage from the tornado destroyed cars and demolished structures in Moore on May 20. Hide Caption 87 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Onlookers stop to view a portion of the destruction left behind on May 20 in Moore. Hide Caption 88 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Overturned cars are among the rubble from the tornado that hit Moore on May 20. Hide Caption 89 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A woman is comforted after the May 20 tornado in Moore. Hide Caption 90 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A shredded tree stands amid debris in the aftermath of the storm in Moore on May 20. Hide Caption 91 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A shopping center parking lot is covered with debris and damaged cars on May 20. Hide Caption 92 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – Law enforcement officers block a roadway in Moore where there was extensive damage from the tornado. Hide Caption 93 of 94 Photos: Photos: Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma Deadly tornado hits Oklahoma City area – A massive tornado approaches Moore on May 20. The storm first touched down to the west of the city near Newcastle, Oklahoma. Visit CNN.com/impact for ways to help the victims. Hide Caption 94 of 94JUST WATCHED Obama: Oklahomans inspire with courage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama: Oklahomans inspire with courage 00:55JUST WATCHED Principal: Teachers saved students Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Principal: Teachers saved students 05:07JUST WATCHED Loved ones remember tornado victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Loved ones remember tornado victims 01:36The 68-year-old man and a couple dozen volunteers spent Monday morning combing through rubble that was once his home, searching for the envelope.At one point, they stood in a circle and prayed for the money to turn up. After hours of searching through wreckage 5 feet deep, it did."All of a sudden, I saw the window sill. ... I picked that up, and there it was," Bridges said shortly after the find, his voice cracking. "I just, I couldn't believe it. It was a miracle."He said he hopes to use the money to buy a new pickup, since the storm totaled his vehicles."Right now, money is money. I got the clothes on my back and a new toothbrush I bought," he said. "It means a lot. It's just these little things like that really bring some joy in my heart, which I need."Remembering those lostThousands of residents poured into First Baptist Church in Moore for a public memorial and prayer service Sunday night. Tissues in each of the pews greeted the mourners."It was pretty amazing celebrating all of the people that died and that lived," third-grader Ally Keepers told CNN affiliate KOCOAlly was inside Plaza Towers Elementary School with the tornado shredded the building and killed seven of her schoolmates."Some of my friends died, and I was so upset that Kyle Davis died," Ally said. "I was crying. I went to the cemetery and put some flowers out there for him."Debby Goss of nearby Shawnee said the mass gathering was therapeutic."I think it was probably the start of healing for the community," she said."This was a good time for them to see each other in one place that wasn't a rescue center or a disaster area. ... There was a peaceful place for them to just sit and think about the other people that are here to support them and help."Obama tours devastated areaJUST WATCHED Hear 911 tapes from Oklahoma Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hear 911 tapes from Oklahoma 02:37Photos: Living in tornado alley Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Frieda Stanley sits in what was once her living room. Her Oklahoma City neighborhood was hit by a deadly twister in May 1999 and again on Monday. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – The nameless neighborhood, near SW 149 and May Avenue in Oklahoma City, sits on the spot where the 1999 and 2013 tornado paths intersect. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Lisa Brown helps her former colleague Kay Taylor pull belongings from the wreckage of her home. Taylor, a former PE teacher and school counselor, was most concerned about finding her collections of pennies, gumball machines and ladybug figures. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Kay Taylor, 63, moved into her home here after the 1999 tornado. She plans to rebuild. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Families on Tuesday and Wednesday searched for recognizable objects hidden in the anonymous rubble. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Cheryl Richeson survived Monday's tornado by hiding out in her family's safe room, which is built to withstand Oklahoma's severe weather. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Some people in this neighborhood say they will rebuild. Others aren't sure they trust the skies here. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – George Stanley recorded the tornado on his iPhone before waiting out the storm in his neighbor's underground storm shelter. He doesn't plan to leave. "It's my paradise out here," he said. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Residents talked about how they survived this storm and the 1999 tornado as they pulled photos and other personal belongings from their homes. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Kay Taylor lives next door to her 94-year-old aunt, whose home was destroyed by tornadoes in 1999 and this week. Both women plan to stay on this land. Hide Caption 10 of 10Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Heather Shannon helps a friend find family photos and other keepsakes at her home in Moore, Oklahoma, on May 22. People who lost their homes to the tornado on Monday continue to search through the rubble in hopes of finding some of their belongings. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Jon Cook salvaged a flag that was presented to his family when his grandfather, a Korean War veteran, passed away. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Payton Jo Lindsey sits on her grandmother's hope chest amid the ruins where her family's home once stood. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Aidan Fox, 9, was happy to find a baseball bat behind his grandparents' house in Moore on May 22. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Lori Lacey found her dog Lillie two days after the tornado destroyed her home. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Chelsea and Shane Stanfield discovered some family photos of them with their son, Lane. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Kelcy Trowbridge searches for family keepsakes in the rubble of her home. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Thomas and Kelcy Trowbridge found a basket adorned with footprints from one of their two children. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Jennifer Nutty-Marquez, left, and Jamie Plunk saved a poster of Nutty-Marquez's son, Caleb, from the wreckage of their home. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Carolyn Booher found her husband's wedding ring and several photos of her parents in the debris. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Jason Keen and his wife, Katy, search through the wreckage in a field of debris behind their house. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Thomas and Lisa Jones located some family photos of them and their son, Anthony. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Scott, left, and Buddy Whitmore recovered a bowl that belonged to their grandmother. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – The items salvaged by Scott and Jill Ashbaugh included a photo of their 2-year-old son, Carter, and one of their wedding photos. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Jill Ashbaugh works to remove her family's recovered belongings from their home. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Trisha Jones and her fiance, Shaun Samuel, recovered a photo collage that Trisha received as a graduation gift. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – A flag hangs from a tree in a neighborhood in Moore that was in the direct path of the Oklahoma tornado. Hide Caption 17 of 17JUST WATCHED OKC twisters: 15 years in 2 minutes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH OKC twisters: 15 years in 2 minutes 02:39President Barack Obama saw the destruction up close Sunday and vowed to support residents long after the media leaves."As fellow Americans, we're going to be there as shelter from the storm for the people of Moore who have been impacted," Obama said.He praised local officials, first responders and school principals for their efforts after the storm, which killed 24 people, injured more than 375 others and damaged or demolished 12,000 homes in the Oklahoma City area.Speaking from the wreckage of Plaza Towers Elementary, Obama called on Americans to help with relief efforts."It's going to take a long time for this community to rebuild, so I want to urge every American to step up," he said, suggesting citizens donate to the American Red Cross website.Governor: We need help now"Basically, what I need is the ability to get through red tape, the ability to get the FEMA funds in here quickly and to get the services that our citizens need to help them recover through this terrible disaster," Fallin said on CNN's "State of the Union."Fallin, a Republican, said the initial reaction from the federal government in assisting her state was fast and effective."So far, we have had great response," she said, quickly adding that there was a long way to go before Moore returns to normal."This is a massive debris field," she said. "It's not just a couple blocks. It's miles."Schools across town destroyedWeekend graduation festivities in Moore were infused with reminders of the tragic tornado.When Southmoore High's Alyson Costilla walked across the stage to get her diploma, about a dozen people in the crowd stood and held up pictures of her mother, who died in a 7-Eleven ravaged by the powerful winds.The cost of rebuilding classrooms for Moore's students will be enormous.The city's public schools suffered $45 million in damage, including the two elementary schools that were leveled. Overall, insurance claims related to last week's storm will probably top $2 billion, said Kelly Collins from the Oklahoma Insurance Department.Strangers rush to helpThe cleanup can be arduous, if not overwhelming.Caleb Allison stared at the mass of debris that covered the yard where his home once stood."Who's going to come get it?" the high school Spanish teacher wondered last week.But his mammoth problem was quickly solved Sunday with the help of students, parent-teacher association members and fellow teachers from his school and the elementary school where his wife teaches."We probably had 70 to 80 people in our front yard, and we cleaned it in a matter of 30 minutes," he said.Morgan DeLong, one of the volunteers, said many whose homes survived the storm are eager to help."It's kind of our turn to return that blessing and help people out," she said. "It's amazing to just look out and see how our community's coming together."