Story highlights Ahmad Khan Rahami is charged with attempted murder of officersHe was wounded in a police shootout after allegedly setting off bombs in New York and New JerseyNew York (CNN) Ahmad Khan Rahami, who was wounded in shootout with police last month after allegedly setting off bombs in New York and New Jersey, will be arraigned this week, according to one of his attorneys.Alexander Shalom, senior staff attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union, said Rahami will be arraigned Thursday afternoon at the Union County Courthouse in New Jersey via Skype from his hospital bed.Rahami, 28, is charged with five counts of attempted murder of a law enforcement officer after the shootout with police in Linden, New Jersey, according to prosecutors. He is also charged with second-degree unlawful possession of a weapon and second-degree possession of a weapon for an unlawful purpose.He had been "incapacitated and intubated" in a hospital from wounds suffered in the shootout and has not had a court hearing, according to a federal court filing.Photos: Explosion in Manhattan New York Mayor Bill de Blasio, right, and New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, second right, look over the mangled remains of a dumpster Sunday, September 18, in New York's Chelsea neighborhood. An explosion injured 29 people there the night before. Hide Caption 1 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan Authorities believe the blast was caused by an explosive device in or near this dumpster. All 29 victims have been released from hospitals, according to the governor. Hide Caption 2 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan FBI agents review the scene of the explosion on Sunday morning. Hide Caption 3 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan Police officers redirect passers-by as investigations continue early on Sunday morning. Hide Caption 4 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan A fire truck at the scene of the blast on Saturday. Hide Caption 5 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan The New York Police Department's Counterterrorism Bureau tweeted this image of the crumpled dumpster following the explosion in Chelsea. Hide Caption 6 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan Just blocks away from the explosion, a suspicious device was found. Officials said the device appeared to be a pressure cooker with dark-colored wiring protruding, connected by silver duct tape to what appeared to be a cell phone. Hide Caption 7 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan De Blasio, in the blue tie, speaks at a news conference near the scene on Saturday. He was joined by New York Police Commissioner James O'Neill. Hide Caption 8 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan Police block off a road near the site of the explosion. Hide Caption 9 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan Firefighters and emergency workers gather at the scene. Hide Caption 10 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan Police officers and firefighters respond to the scene. Hide Caption 11 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan A New York police officer and his dog check a garbage can close to the scene of the explosion. Hide Caption 12 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan Two heavily armed police officers survey the scene. Hide Caption 13 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan New York police at the scene of the explosion. Hide Caption 14 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan A bomb squad vehicle arrives at the scene. Hide Caption 15 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan Police arrive at the scene of the explosion. Hide Caption 16 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan A street is blocked off nearby. Hide Caption 17 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan Police and firefighters gather near the scene. Hide Caption 18 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan A crowd gathers near the site of the explosion. Hide Caption 19 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan A line of emergency vehicles near the scene of the explosion. Hide Caption 20 of 21 Photos: Explosion in Manhattan Onlookers gather on the street. Hide Caption 21 of 21"I don't have any update beyond the fact that he's well enough to be arraigned," Shalom said of his client's medical condition.Read More