Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Good morning. Don't worry about getting those jackets out just yet. These balmy temperatures will stick with us for a few more days. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. MosulIt's Day 2 of the battle for Mosul, and the Pentagon says things are progressing "ahead of schedule." Already more than 75 square miles of territory and at least nine villages have been taken from ISIS. But suicide bombers, IEDs and elaborate defenses await the coalition. CNN's Nick Paton Walsh got caught in the crossfire while reporting on the battles.2. Police chiefsIn the era of Black Lives Matter protests, this is pretty stunning. The head of the International Association of Chiefs of Police apologized to communities of color for past mistreatment. During a meeting in San Diego, Terrence Cunningham acknowledged "the history of policing has had darker periods."3. Campaign 20164. SyriaWe think it can't get any worse -- and then it does. Twenty members of the same family were killed in airstrikes in Aleppo. And nine of the dead were children. Russia, which has helped Syria's regime unleash all this madness, said it will stop airstrikes there -- but only for eight hours on Thursday.5. WeatherIt's the middle of October and you're still wearing shorts? It's not just you. Around 40 cities may hit record highs today . But don't worry; you won't have to go to the pumpkin patch in a swimsuit. More seasonal temperatures should return by the weekend.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.RIPA 600-year-old oak tree in New Jersey may have survived the Revolutionary War, but it can't make it in its now-urban surroundings and will be cut down.Cool catBefore the Internet gave us cat pics , Walter Chandoha did. The photographer has been snapping feline pictures for decades.No thanksPresident Obama's been handing out commutations like bottles of water lately, but one inmate in Texas just said thanks, but no thanksWHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up laterOne thing lost in all the 2016 hubbub -- the age of Obama is drawing to a close . The long goodbye continues tonight when the Obamas host their last state dinner.AND FINALLY ...Chomp, chomp, chompCuteness alert! Guinea pigs Pablo and Custard go head-to-head in a parsley eating contest. The real winner, of course, is us.