Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Hurricane Matthew is hugging Florida's Atlantic coast this morning. Here's everything you need to know about this deadly monster storm. Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. The latest2. The CaribbeanBefore slamming Florida, Matthew rammed through the Caribbean. The storm did the most damage in Haiti, where it killed at least 264 people . But that number will surely rise as authorities begin to reach the hardest-hit areas. Matthew left 350,000 people in need of assistance and forced 15,000 into shelters. UNICEF said the storm is causing Haiti's largest humanitarian crisis since the massive 2010 earthquake.3. Hit twice?Could Matthew do a weird loop-de-loop and hit Florida twice ? It's possible, forecasters say. The American forecast model predicts Matthew will weaken as it spins back through the Atlantic and hits southern Florida next week. European models also show the storm making that same circle but staying offshore.4. The electionFlorida won't extend the deadline for voter registration despite the storm. Hillary Clinton's campaign wanted this because of Matthew's potential disruption to folks who registered right before the October 11 deadline. But Gov. Rick Scott said no. Both Clinton's and Donald Trump's campaigns are monitoring how damage from the hurricane will affect voter mobilization efforts in the battleground state, just a month before the election.5. How to helpWant to help those affected by Matthew, both in the US and the Caribbean? There's lots of opportunities. Americares is providing $200 in aid for every $10 donated. The Salvation Army is making an appeal for donations to help those suffering. The United Way of Miami-Dade has activated Operation Helping Hands. Click here , where you'll find links to other organizations that are helping out.IN OTHER NEWSHere's what else is going on.Peace Prize winnerColombian President Juan Manuel Santos won the 2016 Nobel Peace Prize this morning for the peace deal he crafted with FARC rebels.Not a rehearsalDonald Trump held a town hall last night in Sandown, New Hampshire, but he insisted this wasn't practice for Sunday's debate with Hillary Clinton in St. Louis.Flash crashThe British pound plummeted more than 6% against the dollar in a matter of minutes this morning. The cause could be computers, human error -- or Brexit.In jailCarl Ferrer, the CEO of Backpage.com, has been arrested on pimping charges . His website is accused of allowing ads for child sex trafficking.Out of jailPresident Obama granted clemency to 102 inmates , part of his record-setting effort to reverse harsh sentences for mostly nonviolent drug offenders.AND FINALLY ...Water worksIt's been another tough week. Let's end it on a high note with Benedict Cumberbatch doing a cool water trick.