Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Hope you're not reading this on your Galaxy Note 7. That's one of the things you need to know today to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.1. Campaign 2016Donald Trump says he'll continue to talk about " inappropriate things " the Clinton family has allegedly done if more audio of him saying "inappropriate things" comes out. Meanwhile, Mark Burnett, the creator of "The Apprentice," said if there are tapes of Trump behaving badly on the show, he couldn't legally release them anyway . Among all of this, Wikileaks r eleased 2,000 more emails related to the Clinton campaign.2. HaitiHurricane Matthew has killed hundreds in Haiti, but a different, more insidious threat may be lurking : cholera. Thirteen people have died of the waterborne disease since Matthew struck. Haiti has one of the highest cholera rates in the world, and it just weathered a horrible outbreak in 2010.3. Marriage equalityAustralia will almost certainly r eject a referendum on marriage equality . Plenty in parliament support it, but they don't want to subject it to a national vote because the issue could be too divisive and damaging to Australians. Supporters are willing to wait until the next general election - in 2019.4. Chicago teacher strikeParents are breathing a sigh of relief in the city after a last-minute agreement prevented a teachers' strike . The previous contract ran out last year and the teacher's union and the school board had been butting heads over pay and pension.5. SamsungOkay, so if you have a Galaxy Note 7, you need to turn it off NOW . The phones, as you recall, have a penchant for bursting into flames. Until now, Samsung was offering replacements, but they too were catching fire. Over the weekend, the company waved a white flag andhalted production of the phone altogether. Breakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in."I'm really glad that so much attention has come my way, if for no other reason than I can get the message out that your voice can be heard, and please get out and vote in November."That's viral debate hero Ken Bone, he of the cozy red sweater and pleasant demeanor, talking to CNN's Carol Costello.Children of divorce are more likely to smoke or drink when they're youngSo says a new study. It's about absence, not angst : Kids who lost a parent had similar risky behaviors.Trump's Taj Mahal closes its doorsHow did a ninth-grader become Chief of Police?Here's how often you should wash...everything!And finally ...Now THAT's some pumpkin carving!