Story highlights Kate Pourciau says she felt "overwhelmed" by calm despite chaosJosh Nowlan says he wants to go back into the theater where the killings took placeChristina Blache, who served a stint in Iraq, says "nobody was prepared" for violenceEric Hunter says he is going to "live my life a little bit better"A few reflections from survivors of the massacre at an Aurora, Colorado, theater from CNN interviews:'That's when I felt a big ole bang in my leg'Bonnie Kate Pourciau, 18, said she is "not a huge Batman fan, really," but decided to go to the movie after she and her friend Elizabeth Sumrall stopped at a hotel in Aurora en route from Seattle to their homes in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.When the gunfire broke out, Pourciau told CNN affiliate KMGH from her bed in Aurora Medical Center, she thought it was special effects in the movie. But she soon realized what was going on."That's when I grabbed Elizabeth and we ducked under our seats."Crouched behind her seat, she prayed. "Lord, just protect us, keep us safe," she recalled thinking. "That's when I felt a big ole bang in my leg."Once the shooting stopped, Pourciau tried to run from the theater, but didn't get far. "Of course, I fell because my knee is all gone," she said about the bullet wound that shattered her knee. "I tried to run and just stumbled and fell."By now, Pourciau and her friend had separated in the panic, and another movie patron risked his life by helping her scramble to the exit, where she and Sumrall reunited, she said."Elizabeth laid me on the concrete," and a police officer and a member of the National Guard soon approached. The officer carried her to a patrol car and the member of the National Guard wrapped her leg, which had been losing blood quickly.Despite the chaos, Pourciau said she felt calm. "I was overwhelmed with the sense of security and peace -- that it was going to be OK," she said.Having already undergone three surgeries on her leg, Pourciau said she expected to be transferred Thursday to a hospital closer to her home.'A silver lining to a very dark cloud'Baby Hugo was born Tuesday morning to Katie and Caleb Medley. They had gone to the movie as a treat before the expected delivery this week of their child. The gunfire did not strike Katie, but Caleb was shot in the face. He lost his right eye, suffered brain damage and is in critical condition.His brother said Caleb seems to understand what happened, but it was unclear whether he knew he has a baby boy."He's making small improvements, baby steps every day," said Seth Medley about his eldest brother. When the baby was taken into Caleb's hospital room, "he moved his hand towards the baby, trying to feel his son, trying to touch him." Caleb's heart rate and blood pressure rose, Seth said.Caleb had been doing standup comedy routines in Denver and was working full time at Target, but he had no health insurance, his brother said.Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The public gets its first glimpse of James Holmes, then 24, the suspect in the Colorado theater shooting during his initial court appearance July 23, 2012. With his hair dyed reddish-orange, Holmes, here with public defender Tamara Brady, showed little emotion. He is accused of opening fire in a movie theater July 20, 2012, in Aurora, Colorado, killing 12 people and wounding 70. Holmes faces 166 counts, almost all alleging murder or attempted murder. He has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. More photos: Mourning the victims of the Colorado theater massacre Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police release the official photo from Holmes' booking after the shooting. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes often had a blank stare during his July 23, 2012, court appearance, seeming to be in a daze. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Victims and their relatives and journalists watch the proceedings in 2012. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Flags fly at half-staff on July 23, 2012, at the Arapahoe County Courthouse in Centennial, Colorado, where the movie theater shooting suspect had his first court appearance. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Arapahoe County District Attorney Carol Chambers talks to reporters July 23, 2012, before heading into the courthouse. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Family members of the victims arrive at the courthouse July 23, 2012, for the suspect's first court appearance. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The Century Aurora 16 multiplex in Aurora becomes a place of horror after a gunman opened fire July 20, 2012, in a crowded theater. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes is accused of opening fire during a midnight screening of the Batman movie "The Dark Knight Rises." Holmes purchased four weapons and more than 6,000 rounds of ammunition, police say. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police investigate outside the Century 16 multiplex July 21, 2012, a day after the mass shooting. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the suspect's car outside the theater. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police escort a sand-filled dump truck containing improvised explosive devices removed from Holmes' booby-trapped apartment on July 21, 2012. Authorities have said they believe the suspect rigged his place before leaving for the movie theater. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police break a window at the suspect's apartment July 20, 2012, in Aurora. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers speak with Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper, center, outside the suspect's apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers prepare to disarm the booby-trapped apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officials tow cars outside Holmes' apartment July 21, 2012. Police disassembled devices and trip wires set up in the apartment. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers prepare to place an explosive device inside the apartment. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Debris flies out a window, right, after law enforcement officers detonate an explosive device inside the apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People mourn the victims during a vigil behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers in Aurora. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman grieves during a vigil for victims behind the theater. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A distraught woman receives counseling from the Rev. Quincy Shannon, left, in front of Gateway High School in Aurora, where the families of the missing met after the shooting. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Lin Gan of Aurora holds back tears as she speaks to reporters about her experience in the Century 16 theater. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People embrace before a vigil for victims behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators work on evidence near the apartment of James Holmes on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Members of the Aurora Police Department SWAT unit walk near the Holmes' apartment. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Television news crews gather in front of the home of Robert and Arlene Holmes, parents of suspect James Holmes, in San Diego on July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A popcorn box lies on the ground outside the Century 16 movie theater. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Adariah Legarreta, 4, is comforted by her grandmother Rita Abeyta near the Century 16 Theater in Aurora. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Jessica Ghawi, an aspiring sportscaster, was one of the victims. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman waits for news outside Gateway High School, a few blocks from the scene of the shooting at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police chief Daniel J. Oates speaks at a press conference near the Century 16 Theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the trash container outside the suspect's apartment in Aurora. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A Federal ATF officer carries protective gear onsite at the home of the shooting suspect. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre President Obama speaks on the shootings at a July 20, 2012, event in Fort Myers, Florida. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Moviegoers are interviewed at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers gather at the theater July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators were a common sight at the theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Authorities gather at the shooting suspect's apartment building in Aurora. Police broke a second-floor window to look for explosives the suspect claimed were in the apartment. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Screaming, panicked moviegoers scrambled to escape from the black-clad gunman, who wore a gas mask and randomly shot as he walked up the theater's steps, witnesses said. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Onlookers gather outside the Century Aurora 16 theater. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman sits on top of her car near the crime scene. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police block access to the Town Center mall after the shooting. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Cell phone video taken by someone at the theater showed scores of people screaming and fleeing the building. Some, like this man, had blood on their clothes. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Witnesses told KUSA the gunman kicked in an emergency exit door and threw a smoke bomb into the darkened theater before opening fire. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre What is believed to be the suspect's car is examined after the shooting. Hide Caption 45 of 45Seth Medley said becoming an uncle was bittersweet for him. "We were all looking forward to this," he said. "It's a silver lining to a very dark cloud, but we all know Caleb, we know he's a fighter, we know he's not going to stay out of that child's life for any length of time if he can avoid it."'There were kids, mothers and fathers'Josh Nowlan survived the bloodbath in Aurora, and his friends hail him as a hero for shielding them with his body. Nowlan was shot in the left calf and right arm in the process."Of course I'm glad it's over with, and I'm glad I'm alive and I get to see my kids," Nowlan, whose sons are 7 and 9, said as his voice cracked with emotion. "But I also think about, you know, the other people that weren't as lucky as I was. There were kids, mothers and fathers that were there, and they're dead. I'm still alive."Nowlan said he wants to go back into the screening room where the killings took place, "look down at that same seat and say 'I beat you. You did not take this life.' "Iraq War veteran Josh Nowlan, 31, is recovering from bullet wounds after huddling to protect his newlywed friends.Christine Blache said if you are going to a war zone, you accept the risks. But being attacked at a theater was a shock.'You don't want to leave knowing that you said something'Corbin Dates says he's not sure how he survived the killings. He and a friend both escaped unhurt, and he said he has "a blank feeling inside" when he looks back at the building.But the experience left him sounding somewhat philosophical."Certain circumstances can happen at any time," he said. "Try to make the most of what you can with your family, your friends, colleagues, people that you probably had bad past relationships with. Because you don't want to leave knowing that you said something, or didn't say enough."'Who expects to be shot in a movie theater?'Christina Blache was also wounded in the early Friday massacre. Her friend and co-worker, Alex "Sully" Sullivan, was shot in the head, and Blache found out Saturday morning that he didn't survive."He was the whole reason we all went," Blache said from her hospital bed.Blache served in the Air Force until four years ago, and her service included a stint in the Iraqi capital Baghdad. But at home, in a moviehouse, "nobody was prepared" for the violence that was unleashed, she said."If you're going over to a war zone, you know there's the potential that you're going to be shot at. Potential that mortars are going to come over the wall. Potential that somebody is going to throw a grenade at you. Where if you're sitting in a movie theater trying to watch a movie with your friends, who expects to be shot in a movie theater? None of us did."JUST WATCHED 'This was worse than a war zone' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'This was worse than a war zone' 03:37'I'm going to live my life a little bit better'Eric Hunter caught a glimpse of the killer's eyes during the rampage. They "looked pretty intense," but betrayed no emotion, he said.Like others, Hunter said he thought the first three shots were a stunt, "part of the moviegoing experience." Then he heard nine more. He helped two teenage girls to safety as they fled the theater.He says the killings have changed his life: "I'm going to be more cautious. I'm going to live my life a little bit better and just enjoy myself."