Story highlights University plans to renovate locker room"The university hired their own executioner when they hired Louie Freeh," legal analyst saysTrustee Kenneth Frazier says the school's board of trustees is "deeply ashamed"Scott Paterno says he wishes his father had been more aggressive in following upThe release of a scathing report on how Penn State University dealt with a sexual predator who for years abused young boys on and off campus is far from the end of the school's troubles.The university is still under scrutiny by the Department of Education and the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), inquiries that could further tarnish Penn State's reputation and that of its storied football program.The organization that grants the school's crucial academic accreditation is keeping a watchful eye on the unfurling scandal that centers on university officials' handling of Jerry Sandusky, a former defensive coordinator convicted in June of sexually abusing children over a 15-year period.Two former university administrators are awaiting trial for their role in the scandal, and more charges are possible as the state's Attorney General's Office investigates what Penn State may have known about Sandusky's behavior.Then there's the possibility of a rash of costly civil lawsuits after former FBI Director Louis Freeh's finding that Penn State's most powerful leaders showed "total and consistent disregard" for child sex abuse victims and covered up attacks by the school's former assistant football coach."The university hired their own executioner when they hired Louie Freeh," said CNN legal analyst Paul Callan. "They are going to get pounded in civil litigation," likely for millions of dollars by victims who use Freeh's report as "a roadmap" in their case.Though in some ways, Callan added, Penn State should be commended for "hiring an investigator who was so brutally honest" in his review.Freeh's report was so scathing that some say it could be the nadir of the university's reputation."In the public minds, yesterday was the moment that everyone remembers about Penn State, the higher ups and Paterno," said Callan. "You didn't hear it to that extent in even the Sandusky trial. This was likely the biggest moment of adverse publicity the university will endure."Freeh released the results of the university-funded probe on Thursday, reporting that his team of investigators had found that several school officials had "empowered" Sandusky to continue his abuse.Legendary head football coach Joe Paterno also could have stopped the attacks had he done more, Freeh concluded.JUST WATCHED Sex abuse report rips Paterno, Penn St. Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sex abuse report rips Paterno, Penn St. 01:04JUST WATCHED Former Penn St player speaks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Former Penn St player speaks 03:13JUST WATCHED Jay Paterno: Freeh report is not the end Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jay Paterno: Freeh report is not the end 02:49"Our most saddening and sobering finding is the total disregard for the safety and welfare of Sandusky's child victims by the most senior leaders at Penn State," Freeh wrote. "The most powerful men at Penn State failed to take any steps for 14 years to protect the children who Sandusky victimized."He blamed Paterno, former Penn State President Graham Spanier and administrators Gary Schultz and Tim Curley for having "never demonstrated ... any concern for the safety and well-being of Sandusky's victims until after Sandusky's arrest," while the board of trustees failed to perform its oversight duties.That collective failure "to protect against a child sexual predator harming children" lasted "more than a decade" and allowed Sandusky to further harm his victims, the full report says.Freeh's 267-page report is separate from a grand jury investigation into charges of perjury and failure to report abuse against Curley, a former athletics director for the school, and Schultz, a former vice president.Trustee Kenneth Frazier, head of the committee addressing the Sandusky scandal, said Thursday that the school's board of trustees is "deeply ashamed" by its lack of oversight identified in the report.The board met again on Friday for a regularly scheduled session, and again pledged to make good on implementing the changes.They made some changes Friday including reducing the term of board members from 15 years to 12 years. This change applies to board members elected this year. The board also voted to add 30 minutes of public comment during future board meetings.It has not gone unnoticed that the school has been up front and cooperative with investigators from various organizations since the scandal surfaced last year, said Richard Pokrass, a spokesman for the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, which issues the school's academic accreditation.Because university leaders have acknowledged a problem and have been up front, it seems unlikely the school will risk losing that accreditation, Pokrass said."That being said, the commission certainly feels there are problems that need to be addressed."It is less clear what the Department of Education and NCAA inquiries will bring the school.Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Former Penn State football coach Joe Paterno died in January 2012. He was 85. The legendary coach, seen here in 1988, was fired in November 2011 amid revelations that assistant coach Jerry Sandusky had sexually abused boys on the Penn State campus. Here's a look at Paterno's 46 years at the helm of the Nittany Lions football program. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach The statue of Paterno outside Beaver Stadium was among many vestiges of his years as head coach. After his legacy was tarnished it was removed from its pedestal in 2012. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno sprints off the field with his team at halftime in a 1996 game. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno celebrates after winning the Fiesta Bowl against Texas in 1997. Paterno was diagnosed with a treatable form of lung cancer, his son announced in November. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach In October 2001, Paterno is honored before a game for having won the most games in Division 1-A. He continued to vie with Florida State's Bobby Bowden for the most all-time major college wins until Bowden retired in 2009. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno and his Nittany Lions look on before facing Iowa at Beaver Stadium in State College, Pennsylvania, in October 2004. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno shakes hands with Lloyd Carr of Michigan before their game in 2005 in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno celebrates a triple-overtime Orange Bowl win over Florida State in Miami on January 3, 2006. Paterno has guided his teams to more bowl victories than any other college coach. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno speaks at a post-game press conference after winning the Outback Bowl on January 1, 2007, in Tampa, Florida. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno walks the field as his players warm up before their game against the Syracuse Orangemen at Beaver Stadium in September 2009 in Pennsylvania. The coach was fired in November amid the outcry over the handling of accusations against former defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno gives direction to his players before playing the Crimson Tide in Alabama in 2010. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno walks the sidelines in October 2009 in Evanston, Illinois. In December 2011, he was admitted to a hospital after fracturing his pelvis when he slipped and fell at his home in State College. Hide Caption 12 of 12Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – The podium stand outside of Jerry Sandusky's trial on its first day is covered in mics, hinting at the massive media coverage of the event. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Several news vans pile up outside of the Sandusky trial. The network satellite vans are all parked in front of the Centre County Courthouse and the vans parked in back are live trucks from the regional news outlets. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Every day Sandusky arrived in the passenger seat of his attorney Joe Amendola's black BMW SUV. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – This sign posted on a road near the town of Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, shows support for former Penn State head football coach Joe Paterno. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Mic cords abound as the media took over the courthouse lawn to cover the Jerry Sandusky trial. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – The grave of Joe Paterno is at Spring Creek Presbyterian Cemetery in State College, Pennsylvania. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Reporters wait with microphones outside of the Sandusky trial. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Several photographers and videographers staked out spots behind the police's green barriers in the back of the courthouse where Sandusky's trial was taking place. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Live vans from regional news outlets fill the lot behind the Centre County Courthouse where the Sandusky trial is taking place. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Judge John M. Cleland is presiding over Sandusky's trial at the Centre County Courthouse in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – A business advertises Joe Paterno items within view of the courthouse where assistant coach Sandusky is on trial. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – The gate to the practice football field is locked at the Mildred and Louis Lasch Football Building at Penn State University in State College, Pennsylvania Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Mics and cameras surround the podium ouside the courthouse where Jerry Sandusky is on trial. Hide Caption 13 of 13Photos: Penn State students take to the streets Photos: Penn State students take to the streets Penn State students take to the streets – Following the firing of Penn State's legendary football coach Joe Paterno and the school's president, hundreds of students take to the streets in State College, Pennsylvania, early Thursday, November 10. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Penn State students take to the streets Penn State students take to the streets – Police try to control students in the street after what started as an apparent celebration of Paterno turned raucous. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Penn State students take to the streets Penn State students take to the streets – The crowd tipped over a news van and decried the media. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Penn State students take to the streets Penn State students take to the streets – Pennsylvania State Police disperse students along East College Avenue in the early morning hours Thursday. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Penn State students take to the streets Penn State students take to the streets – Paterno was ousted over a child sex abuse scandal at the university. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Penn State students take to the streets Penn State Paterno statue – Students visit the Joe Paterno statue adjacent to Beaver Stadium to quietly honor the legendary coach following the announcement that he was fired. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Penn State students take to the streets Penn State students take to the streets – Students pass the mural at the College Bookstore where the portrait of Jerry Sandusky, the former coach accused in the scandal, has been removed and replaced with a blue ribbon. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Penn State students take to the streets Penn State students take to the streets – "What can I say, I'm no longer the coach," Paterno told about 15 students gathered outside his house late Wednesday night. "It's going to take some time to get used to. It's been 61 years." Hide Caption 8 of 8In November, the Education Department notified Penn State that it was looking into the school's compliance with the Clery Act, a federal law that requires universities to report crimes on or near campus and provide timely warnings if reported crimes threaten the campus community.In his report, Freeh said top university officials forged an agreement to conceal Sandusky's sexual attacks more than a decade ago, outlining a culture of secrecy while pointing to an incident in which janitors aware of the abuse took no action, out of fear."They witness what I think in the report is probably the most horrific rape that's described," Freeh told reporters. "And what do they do? They panic." One janitor, a Korean War veteran, said it was "the worst thing he's ever seen." He and other janitors were "alarmed and shocked," but were afraid that if they reported it, they'd be fired.The law carries fines of up to $27,500 per violation, but more critically, schools that fail to comply can be suspended from the federal financial aid program, according to the Department of Education.A department spokesman did not immediately return a telephone message left Friday seeking an update on the investigation.The NCAA said Thursday that it is reviewing Freeh's report and is awaiting the school's response to a November 17 letter seeking answers to questions about Penn State's institutional control and ethics policies.That letter called the allegations "deeply troubling" and said that, if confirmed, appear to show conduct "starkly contrary to the values of higher education, as well as the NCAA."The organization has not said what penalties the university could face, and the media relations office did not immediately return a message left Friday.Common penalties include public reprimands and censures, according to the NCAA website. A ban on participation in postseason tournaments and television appearances are less commonly applied. Recruiting restrictions, fines and scholarship reductions are also possible penalties.The NCAA also has the authority to completely shut down participation in a particular sport for repeat violations, the so-called death penalty.The report also could play into the criminal trials for Curley and Schultz, who are accused of failing to report abuse and of lying to investigators looking into the allegations against Sandusky last year.Their attorney said Thursday that Freeh did not have access to critical witnesses and came up with an incomplete report.Curley's attorney termed it a "lopsided document that leaves the majority of the story untold."In his report, Freeh said he was asked by the Pennsylvania attorney general not to interview former coach Mike McQueary, instead using information from his testimony before a grand jury in November.Criminal defense attorney Ted Simon said it was "very, very important" to note that he wasn't interviewed again because there are still questions about what McQueary specifically told Paterno."I think there may be an overstatement with respect to what Paterno knew or did not know," he told CNN. "And I think one has to be very careful about that. Keep in mind, also, McQueary claims he made specific allegations, criminal in nature, to Curley and Schultz. But Curley and Schultz out -- completely deny that. So there's a contest with regard to those facts."Tom Farrell, Schultz's attorney, said at trial the jury will learn that there was no effort among the four leaders to conceal Sandusky's behavior.Whether anyone else will face criminal charges remains to be seen, but Pennsylvania Attorney General Linda Kelly said Thursday that an investigating grand jury is continuing its work.The university is already facing three civil lawsuits, and Tom Kline, the attorney for one Sandusky victim, said Freeh's report documents a "colossal, monumental" failure by Penn State leaders that provides a road map for further legal actions in the scandal.The shower and locker room in the campus Lasch Building will be remodeled, according to university spokesman David La Torre. Some of the sexual assaults occurred in those showers.The plans were drawn up after Sandusky's arrest last fall, but the work won't be done until legal proceedings in the case are completed. La Torre provided no further details.Penn State President Rodney Erickson said substantial security changes have been made in the building and other athletics facilities.