Story highlights Mexican officials say a fatal shooting occurred along the U.S. borderMexico's foreign ministry condemns a "disproportionate use of lethal force"A border patrol spokesman says two agents opened fire during "dangerous encounters"The FBI is investigating, the spokesman saysMexico's foreign ministry has accused a U.S. border patrol agent of fatally shooting a Mexican citizen over the weekend.The shooting occurred near the bridge that connects Brownsville, Texas, with the Mexican town of Matamoros, the foreign ministry said Sunday in a statement condemning the violence.The ministry said a Mexican national died after being shot by the U.S. agent, but did not release details about the circumstances surrounding the Saturday violence."The Mexican government has repeatedly expressed that the disproportionate use of lethal force in the exercising of immigration control functions is unacceptable under any circumstance," the foreign ministry said, calling for a thorough investigation.A U.S. Customs and Border Protection spokesman said two agents fired shots Saturday morning during "dangerous encounters" along the border.Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – Thousands of protesters take to the streets in Mexico City on Monday, a day after the presidential election results were announced. Supporters of the opposition candidate were rallying against Enrique Peña Nieto, who declared victory late Sunday. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – Peña Nieto, representing the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), speaks during a press conference Monday in Mexico City. He said it was time for his country to leave behind the political rancor of the campaign season. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – Members of the "I Am 132" movement protest on Monday. A video that was uploaded to YouTube helped launch the nationwide student movement, adding fuel to the political frenzy. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – Projected as the runner-up in Sunday's vote, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrado, right, speaks in Mexico City on Monday. He said he was awaiting the official election results and prepared to contest them before judicial authorities if they didn't turn out in his favor. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – A youth activist rallies in Mexico City on Monday. About a third of Mexico's 79.4 million registered voters are between the ages of 18 and 29. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – Peña Nieto celebrates with his family after projections declared him the apparent victor in Mexico's presidential election on Sunday, July 1. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – Peña Nieto's supporters cheer during the victory speech in Mexico City on Sunday. The results would mean a return to power for a party that ruled Mexico for more than 70 years. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – Peña Nieto greets supporters in Mexico City after polls closed and results stacked in his favor early Monday, July 2. Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – Peña Nieto, whose political party was ousted by the conservative National Action Party in 2000, addresses supporters Sunday. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, Peña Nieto's challenger from the Democratic Revolution Party, says he is unwilling to concede in Mexico City on Sunday. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – Supporters of Lopez Obrador listen on the streets of Mexico City during his news conference Sunday. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – "The last word has yet to be said," Lopez Obrador, a former Mexico City mayor, said Sunday. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – Supporters of the Mexican university student movement "I Am 132" protest in front of police outside the national TV network Televisa during a rally against the PRI and Peña Nieto in Mexico City on Saturday. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: Photos: Tensions follow Mexico election Tensions follow Mexico election – Protesters supporting the "I Am 132" movement rally outside Televisa headquarters in Mexico City on Saturday. Hide Caption 14 of 14But U.S. officials have not confirmed any deaths related to the shootings."We have been unable to establish a connection between the shootings and a victim reportedly admitted to a Matamoros hospital," U.S. Customs and Border Protection spokesman Bill Brooks said.Agents "were involved in two dangerous encounters" in the Rio Grande Valley Saturday morning, he said.In one incident, an agent fired toward someone who was throwing rocks at him, he said."At approximately the same time, another nearby agent observed a person aiming a weapon at him and fired his service weapon in defense," he said.The FBI is investigating, Brooks said.In 2010, the FBI investigated after a border patrol agent shot and killed a Mexican teen along the border between El Paso, Texas, and Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. Federal officials closed the case in April, saying there was not enough evidence to pursue charges against the officer and that he acted within the agency's policies for use of force.The officer received widespread condemnation from critics who questioned his use of deadly force against 15-year-old Sergio Adrian Hernandez Guereca, who authorities said had been throwing rocks at the agent when he was shot and killed.Hernandez had a history of involvement with human smuggling and was on a list of repeat juvenile offenders, U.S. Customs and Border Protection spokesman Mark Qualia told CNN after the shooting.An appeal is pending in a lawsuit filed by the teen's parents in U.S. federal court, accusing the officer of using excessive force. The Mexican government filed a friend-of-the-court brief in the case last week, noting that its request to extradite the border patrol agent for prosecution had been denied."As a matter of international responsibility, the fact that the victim was on Mexican soil when he was killed does not absolve the United States of responsibility for the acts of its agent," the brief said.