Story highlights Sandusky attorney said defense expected "people coming out of the woodwork"2 voice mails allegedly are among "numerous voice mails" unearthed in investigationThe firm would not elaborate how many voice mails were uncoveredBoth messages end with the words "love you" to the victimAttorneys for one of the victims Jerry Sandusky was convicted of abusing have released two voice mails that they say the former coach left on their client's phone just prior to his 2011 arrest -- potential fodder for a civil lawsuit they now plan to file against Penn State and others.The recordings are allegedly among "numerous voice mails" unearthed during an investigation, and were left on the phone of a person identified as Victim 2, attorneys with the firm Ross Feller Casey said in a statement Thursday.CNN cannot independently verify the recordings after listening to them posted on the attorneys' website. The group would not elaborate on how many voice mails were uncovered.They are dated September 12 and September 19, 2011, less than two months before Sandusky was arrested on sex abuse charges.Both messages end with the words "love you" to the victim.In a message dated September 19, the former coach apparently says he's "just calling to see -- you know -- whether you had any interest in going to the Penn State game this Saturday.""As these messages indicate, Sandusky was attempting to exert control over our client even as his arrest for child sexual abuse became imminent," the statement said.Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Former Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky leaves the Centre County Courthouse in handcuffs after a jury found him guilty in his sex abuse trial on Friday, June 22. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky is escorted in handuffs to a police car at the Centre County Courthouse under the glare of TV lights. The jury found Sandusky guilty on 45 of 48 counts. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Defense attorney Joe Amendola talks to the media after the trial. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Dottie Sandusky, who has been married to Sandusky for 46 years, walks with her husband while jurors deliberate. She testified that she did not witness any sexual abuse. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Matt Sandusky, one of Jerry Sandusky's six adopted children, said Thursday through his attorney that he also was sexually abused and was prepared to testify. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Shadows of the media are seen outside the courthouse during the second day of deliberations. Jurors took 21 hours over two days to convict Sandusky on 45 of 48 charges against him. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky's attorney Joe Amendola arrives at the courthouse Friday. After the conviction, Amendola announced plans to appeal despite the mountain of convictions against his client. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Judge John Cleland walks into the courthouse. Once the jury reached its decision, he revoked Sandusky's bail and ordered his arrest. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Prosecutor Joseph E. McGettigan III, second from left, and the rest of his prosecution team arrive at the courthouse Friday. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – A crowd gathers outside the Centre County Courthouse in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, to await the Sandusky verdict. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky faces the cameras as he is led to a sheriff's vehicle in handcuffs after the reading of the verdict. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky is put into a police car. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky was booked into the Centre County Correctional Facility. Hide Caption 13 of 13JUST WATCHED Purported Sandusky voice mails released Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Purported Sandusky voice mails released 01:46JUST WATCHED Emmert: It was the board's decision Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Emmert: It was the board's decision 00:33JUST WATCHED NCAA Pres. on Penn State sanctions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NCAA Pres. on Penn State sanctions 05:30JUST WATCHED Wall around Paterno statue demolished Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wall around Paterno statue demolished 00:47In 2001, then-graduate assistant Mike McQueary testified that he told his university superiors he saw Sandusky abusing Victim 2, then a minor, in a Penn State shower room.The firm also announced Thursday that it intends to file a civil lawsuit against "Penn State University and others and to hold them accountable for the egregious and reckless conduct that facilitated the horrific abuse our client suffered."Penn State spokesman David La Torre responded to the announcement Thursday by saying the school "takes these cases very seriously, but cannot otherwise comment on pending litigation.""President Erickson and the Board of Trustees have publicly emphasized that their goal is to find solutions that rest on the principle of justice for the victims," he said.Karl Rominger, Sandusky's attorney, said that the defense had expected "people coming out of the woodwork with accusations.""Victim 2's identity was known to the defense and the prosecution prior to trial and the statements that the individual gave to an FBI trained investigator who worked for the defense team contradicted what he's now claiming," he said."We had already talked to Victim 2, which we mentioned at the presser at the preliminary hearing, and he told (defense attorney) Joe Amendola that nothing had happened."Sandusky, who has maintained his innocence, was convicted in June for abusing young boys over a 15-year-period.The Ross Feller Casey firm currently represents other Sandusky abuse victims, including Victim 3, Victim 7 and Victim 10.