Here are excerpts from a press conference held Thursday by the Penn State Board of Trustees and a statement from the university about the internal review conducted by former FBI Director Louis Freeh. The review looked at how the school handled allegations of child sex abuse by assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky:Trustee Kenneth Frazier, head of the committee addressing the Sandusky scandal:"Let me be clear ... an event like this can never happen again in the Penn State University community.""We are accountable for what's happened here.""Our hearts remain heavy and we are deeply ashamed.""We allowed the former administration to characterize to us the issues and we failed to ask the right questions, the tough questions. Put simply, we did not force the issue."Speaking of Joe Paterno: "There is a lot about his life that's worth emulating. You have to measure every human by the good they've done, the bad they've done. I don't think any of us wants to be measured by the worst things we've ever done in our life."Karen Peetz, chairwoman of the board of trustees:"The board of trustees .... accepts full responsibly for the failures that occurred.""The whole topic of Joe Paterno being honored or not being honored is a very sensitive topic. We believe that with the report's findings, this is something that will need to be continued to be discussed with the entire university community.""The clarity that has come out of the report showed that 61 years of excellent service that Joe gave to the community is now marred."Penn State President Rodney Erickson:"With today's report, we can continue addressing the most painful chapter in the university's history.""Penn State's best days are in front of us."Penn State University statement on the Freeh report:"Today's comprehensive report is sad and sobering in that it concludes that at the moment of truth, people in positions of authority and responsibility did not put the welfare of children first. The board of trustees, as the group that has paramount accountability for overseeing and ensuring the proper functioning and governance of the university, accepts full responsibility for the failures that occurred. The board, in cooperation with the administration, will take every action to ensure that events like these never happen again in our university community.""Judge Freeh's report concludes that certain people at the university who were in a position to protect children or confront the predator failed to do so. There can be no ambiguity about that. The defenseless victims and their families are at the forefront of our thoughts and prayers. We are deeply sorry for the failure to protect these vulnerable young boys from the pain and anguish they suffered. At the same time, we are filled with admiration for the bravery shown by the young men and their families who came forward to ensure that justice will be done.""The board of trustees acknowledges that it failed to create an environment of accountability and transparency and did not have optimal reporting procedures or committee structures. Beginning in March 2011 and continuing until the publication of the grand jury presentment in November 2011, the board failed to make proper inquiry of President Spanier and others regarding the Sandusky matter. As a result, the board was unprepared to deal with the events that occurred in November 2011.""Nothing in this report detracts from the many significant accomplishments of our faculty, staff, students and alumni. We also remain proud of the accomplishments of Penn State's student athletes over many years, and we reaffirm the fundamental premise that academic excellence and athletic achievement are wholly consistent and complementary goals.""With the release of the Freeh Report we are beginning to correct our failures, promote healing and build a stronger tomorrow for Penn State. We are continuing the process of addressing the most painful chapter in the university's history so that we can heal and move forward."