Story highlights She was charged with operating a motor vehicle while her ability was impaired by drugsHer spokesman says tests showed no substances in her systemShe is scheduled to appear in court TuesdayNew York State Police she was driving under the influence of drugsKerry Kennedy, the daughter of the late Robert F. Kennedy and ex-wife to New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, was involved in a hit-and-run incident Friday morning while under the influence of drugs, according to the New York State Police."911 calls reported a white vehicle operating in an erratic manner ... that collided with a tractor-trailer," a state police press release said. "The vehicle sustained damage and a flat tire."Kennedy, 52, was found by state police behind the wheel of her damaged Lexus SUV. "A subsequent investigation found Kennedy to be operating the motor vehicle while her ability was impaired by drugs," police said in announcing the charge against her.Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Saoirse Kennedy Hill died in August 2019 at the family home in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts. Her mother, Courtney Kennedy Hill, was one of the 11 children of the late Robert F. Kennedy and his human rights activist wife, Ethel Kennedy. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies On July 16, 1999, John F. Kennedy Jr. and his wife, Carolyn Bessette-Kennedy, died in a plane crash off the coast of Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts. Her sister was also aboard the plane. Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – Mary Kennedy, right, from whom Robert F. Kennedy Jr. filed for divorce in 2010, was found dead on May 16, 2012. A medical examiner said she died of asphyxiation due to hanging. She was 52. Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kara Kennedy, daughter of Ted Kennedy, died of a heart attack in 2011 after her daily workout. Seen here, she speaks at her father's funeral in 2009. Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Doctors diagnosed Ted Kennedy with a malignant brain tumor in 2008 and he had surgery the same year. He died more than a year later at age 77. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – Michael Kennedy, one of RFK's 11 children, died in a skiing accident in Aspen, Colorado, in 1997. The father of three had suffered an onslaught of negative publicity over an alleged affair with a family babysitter. Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – David Kennedy, another son of RFK, died in 1984 of a drug overdose in a hotel after being ousted from the family vacation home in Palm Beach. Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies In 1973, Ted Kennedy's 12-year-old son Edward Jr. lost a leg to bone cancer. Kennedy is seen here skiing with his father in 1974. Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – Joe Kennedy, the eldest son of RFK, was involved in a 1973 car accident that left a female passenger paralyzed for life. He later served as a Massachusetts congressman and considered a bid for governor but decided against it, citing family troubles. Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – Sen. Ted Kennedy drove a car off a bridge on Massachusetts' Chappaquiddick Island after a party in 1969. Aide Mary Jo Kopechne died in the accident. He is shown wearing a neck brace at her funeral. Controversy over the incident effectively ended his presidential aspirations. Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies While campaigning for the Democratic Party's presidential nomination, Sen. Robert F. Kennedy was assassinated in June 1968. Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – In 1964, Ted Kennedy suffered a broken back when his private plane crashed in Southampton, Massachusetts. Indiana Sen. Birch Bayh also survived the crash, but the pilot and one of Kennedy's aides were killed. Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies President John F. Kennedy was assassinated during a motorcade in Dallas on November 22, 1963. He was 46. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies At just 28, Kathleen Kennedy died in a plane crash in 1948. She had married William John Robert Cavendish, the Marquess of Hartington, who was killed in World War II. Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Joseph P. Kennedy Jr., the eldest son of Joseph and Rose Kennedy, died at 29 in a plane crash during World War II. Hide Caption 15 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies President Kennedy's sister, Rosemary Kennedy (center), had part of her brain removed in 1941 in a relatively new procedure known as a prefrontal lobotomy. The family had long described her as "intellectually slow." The operation only worsened her condition and she was institutionalized until her death in 2005 at age 86. Hide Caption 16 of 16JUST WATCHED Kerry Kennedy looks back at campaigns Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kerry Kennedy looks back at campaigns 04:07Ken Sunshine, a spokesman for Kennedy, denied that she was on drugs, noting Kennedy "voluntarily took breathalyzer, blood and urine tests -- all of which showed no drugs or alcohol whatsoever in her system. The charges were filed before the test results were available."Kennedy was issued several traffic tickets and is scheduled to appear in court in North Castle on Tuesday.