Story highlights Couple who took two children to movie give emotional account of what happenedDozens of people were treated in five Denver-area hospitals after the shootingsAt least three service members also were hurt, the Pentagon saysHospitals across the Denver metropolitan area treated dozens of people, many of them critically wounded, in the aftermath of Friday's mass shooting at a movie theater.The youngest of the injured, a 4-month-old boy, was treated and released from a hospital.Ten people died at the theater in Aurora and two died later at hospitals, officials said. Another 58 people were injured in the massacre.Among the dead was an aspiring Colorado sports reporter in her mid-20s, according to a statement from her brother."Jessica (Ghawi) has indeed died of injuries sustained in the shooting," Jordan Ghawi said on his blog, citing the coroner's office.Families of the victims had not been notified by midafternoon Friday because there was still an active investigation at the crime scene, Aurora police said.Patricia Legarreta, who went to the movie with her fiance, their 4-month-old baby and 4-year-old daughter, tearfully recalled what happened.Legarreta, who suffered wounds to the leg, said she grabbed her son and daughter and headed for the door. "There was a moment where my daughter tripped. I pulled her up and I was just dragging her and I was just thinking we've just got to get out."Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The public gets its first glimpse of James Holmes, then 24, the suspect in the Colorado theater shooting during his initial court appearance July 23, 2012. With his hair dyed reddish-orange, Holmes, here with public defender Tamara Brady, showed little emotion. He is accused of opening fire in a movie theater July 20, 2012, in Aurora, Colorado, killing 12 people and wounding 70. Holmes faces 166 counts, almost all alleging murder or attempted murder. He has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. More photos: Mourning the victims of the Colorado theater massacre Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police release the official photo from Holmes' booking after the shooting. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes often had a blank stare during his July 23, 2012, court appearance, seeming to be in a daze. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Victims and their relatives and journalists watch the proceedings in 2012. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Flags fly at half-staff on July 23, 2012, at the Arapahoe County Courthouse in Centennial, Colorado, where the movie theater shooting suspect had his first court appearance. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Arapahoe County District Attorney Carol Chambers talks to reporters July 23, 2012, before heading into the courthouse. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Family members of the victims arrive at the courthouse July 23, 2012, for the suspect's first court appearance. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The Century Aurora 16 multiplex in Aurora becomes a place of horror after a gunman opened fire July 20, 2012, in a crowded theater. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes is accused of opening fire during a midnight screening of the Batman movie "The Dark Knight Rises." Holmes purchased four weapons and more than 6,000 rounds of ammunition, police say. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police investigate outside the Century 16 multiplex July 21, 2012, a day after the mass shooting. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the suspect's car outside the theater. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police escort a sand-filled dump truck containing improvised explosive devices removed from Holmes' booby-trapped apartment on July 21, 2012. Authorities have said they believe the suspect rigged his place before leaving for the movie theater. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police break a window at the suspect's apartment July 20, 2012, in Aurora. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers speak with Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper, center, outside the suspect's apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers prepare to disarm the booby-trapped apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officials tow cars outside Holmes' apartment July 21, 2012. Police disassembled devices and trip wires set up in the apartment. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers prepare to place an explosive device inside the apartment. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Debris flies out a window, right, after law enforcement officers detonate an explosive device inside the apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People mourn the victims during a vigil behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers in Aurora. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman grieves during a vigil for victims behind the theater. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A distraught woman receives counseling from the Rev. Quincy Shannon, left, in front of Gateway High School in Aurora, where the families of the missing met after the shooting. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Lin Gan of Aurora holds back tears as she speaks to reporters about her experience in the Century 16 theater. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People embrace before a vigil for victims behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators work on evidence near the apartment of James Holmes on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Members of the Aurora Police Department SWAT unit walk near the Holmes' apartment. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Television news crews gather in front of the home of Robert and Arlene Holmes, parents of suspect James Holmes, in San Diego on July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A popcorn box lies on the ground outside the Century 16 movie theater. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Adariah Legarreta, 4, is comforted by her grandmother Rita Abeyta near the Century 16 Theater in Aurora. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Jessica Ghawi, an aspiring sportscaster, was one of the victims. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman waits for news outside Gateway High School, a few blocks from the scene of the shooting at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police chief Daniel J. Oates speaks at a press conference near the Century 16 Theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the trash container outside the suspect's apartment in Aurora. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A Federal ATF officer carries protective gear onsite at the home of the shooting suspect. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre President Obama speaks on the shootings at a July 20, 2012, event in Fort Myers, Florida. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Moviegoers are interviewed at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers gather at the theater July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators were a common sight at the theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Authorities gather at the shooting suspect's apartment building in Aurora. Police broke a second-floor window to look for explosives the suspect claimed were in the apartment. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Screaming, panicked moviegoers scrambled to escape from the black-clad gunman, who wore a gas mask and randomly shot as he walked up the theater's steps, witnesses said. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Onlookers gather outside the Century Aurora 16 theater. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman sits on top of her car near the crime scene. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police block access to the Town Center mall after the shooting. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Cell phone video taken by someone at the theater showed scores of people screaming and fleeing the building. Some, like this man, had blood on their clothes. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Witnesses told KUSA the gunman kicked in an emergency exit door and threw a smoke bomb into the darkened theater before opening fire. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre What is believed to be the suspect's car is examined after the shooting. Hide Caption 45 of 45JUST WATCHED Video: Chaos at theater shooting scene Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video: Chaos at theater shooting scene 00:32JUST WATCHED Witness sees shots through theater wall Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Witness sees shots through theater wall 02:04JUST WATCHED Witness saw little girl who wasn't moving Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Witness saw little girl who wasn't moving 02:27JUST WATCHED Witness: People bleeding in theater Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Witness: People bleeding in theater 00:44Legarreta and her fiance, Jamie Rohrs, later spoke about their ordeal on CNN's "Piers Morgan Tonight.""I'm trying to get out of the way but people are falling next to me, but I am all right, thinking this is it," said Rohrs.In the chaos, the couple, who had recently moved to Colorado from New Mexico, became separated. Rohrs eventually learned Legarreta and their children made it out of the theater.At the hospital, the couple had an unexpected conversation."He had gone to the restroom and came out," Legarreta said of Rohrs. "And he just looked at me and he said 'I know this is not the time and place, but will you marry me?' And I said, 'yes.' Going through 10 minutes of thinking he was dead and I would never see him again, you never want that feeling again."The wounded were being treated at five medical centers. CNN was unable to account for all 58 injured from lists provided by officials. Hospitals gave these accounts Friday afternoon:-- University of Colorado Hospital had 23 patients, nine remaining in critical condition. Ten patients were treated and released.-- Denver Health Medical Center received six patients. Three remained in fair condition and three were released. A patient was transported to the hospital later and was in fair condition.-- Children's Hospital Colorado said it had six injured, ranging from critical to good condition. One patient had passed away.-- Swedish Medical Center had three patients in fair condition. A 19-year-old man was treated and released.-- Parker Adventist Hospital treated and released two patients.U.S. troops were among the casualties in the shooting rampage at the Century 16 movie theaters, the Pentagon said Friday.The Defense Department released a statement that said one sailor was injured and another one, known to have been at the theater, was unaccounted for. Two airmen were wounded in the incident, it said.Witnesses described Friday's deadly shooting as harrowing and chaotic, while victims and their families tried to cope with the bloody aftermath.In Friday's early morning hours, a police officer was seen carrying a young girl, described as bloodied and motionless."I honestly can't think of any kind of person who would intentionally hurt a little girl," Alex Milano told CNN affiliate KUSA. "I don't know whose little girl that was, but my heart goes out to them.""I saw at least four maybe five people who were limping, wounded," said Milano. "The most that I saw was a girl that was pretty much covered in blood, and she didn't have any wounds on her. It made me think the worst.""There was this one guy who was on all fours crawling. There was this girl spitting up blood," Donovan Tate recalled to CNN affiliate KCNC. "There were bullet holes in some people's backs, some people's arms."