Story highlights A tornado touched down in Montrose, Pennsylvania, on Thursday, forecasters said"Trees were bending sideways," a man in New Jersey saysThe National Weather Service reports possible tornado touchdowns in the NortheastAn assistant New York state attorney general was killed during severe storms that barreled through the Northeast, killing at least two others as they unleashed strong winds and knocked out power to hundreds of thousands of customers."On behalf of all New Yorkers, I would like to express my sympathy to the loved ones of Assistant Attorney General Richard Schwartz, who tragically lost his life during last night's severe storm," Gov. Andrew Cuomo said in a statement Friday.The storms struck Thursday, and at one point that evening, severe thunderstorm watches were in effect for a continuous stretch from Oklahoma through New Jersey.In Pennsylvania, a tree crushed a woman in her car as she sought shelter at a campsite, killing her, said Glenn Dunn, the emergency management coordinator for Potter County.Tornadoes touched down in the Pennsylvania towns of Coudersport and Montrose on Thursday, forecasters said after conducting a survey of the area.The one in Coudersport was rated an EF-1 with a maximum wind speed of 90 mph, and the Montrose one was an EF-0 with maximum winds of 80 mph, the National Weather Service said.The service also reported that damage in Elmira, New York, was caused by an EF-1 tornado with estimated maximum wind speeds as high as 110 mph.In New York City, a 61-year-old man died Thursday when lightning struck a Brooklyn church, sending a scaffold crashing down on him, authorities said.Witnesses reported trees in the region buckling under the severe weather's impact.Photos: Photos: Storms strike the Northeast Photos: Photos: Storms strike the Northeast Storms strike the Northeast – Lightning flashes across the sky Thursday, July 26, in Nyack, New York, in this dramatic photo from CNN iReporter Eric Girard. Storms ripped through the Northeast on Thursday night, unleashing strong winds and knocking out power to hundreds of thousands of customers. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Photos: Storms strike the Northeast Storms strike the Northeast – Ominous clouds hover over Nyack, a New York suburb, in another image from Girard. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Photos: Storms strike the Northeast Storms strike the Northeast – Dark clouds hang over Manhattan on Thursday, July 26, in this photo from iReporter Thomas Piercy. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Photos: Storms strike the Northeast Storms strike the Northeast – Another iReporter, David Steiner, snapped these thick gray clouds from Manhattan's Upper East Side at about 7:30 Thursday night. "One moment I was having dinner and the sky was almost clear, and then we looked out an saw this huge dark mass of clouds," Steiner says. "The rain and lightning and thunder came later." Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Photos: Storms strike the Northeast Storms strike the Northeast – The storm brews over Columbus Circle, looking east over Central Park in New York on Thursday. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Photos: Storms strike the Northeast Storms strike the Northeast – Clouds gather over apartment buildings ahead of a thunderstorm on the east side of Manhattan on Thursday. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Photos: Storms strike the Northeast Storms strike the Northeast – Lightning forks over the New York skyline. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Photos: Storms strike the Northeast Storms strike the Northeast – iReporter Matthew Burke reports the strong storms in New York on Thursday night produced quite a show. He said it looked like the lightning initially struck the Bank of America building and then snaked its way through the sky. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Photos: Storms strike the Northeast Storms strike the Northeast – Lightning curls over Central Park. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Photos: Storms strike the Northeast Storms strike the Northeast – A lightning bolt strikes in New York, lighting up Central Park. Hide Caption 10 of 10JUST WATCHED Heavy storm damage in New York Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Heavy storm damage in New York 01:04JUST WATCHED Crews struggle with storm-damaged roads Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Crews struggle with storm-damaged roads 00:54JUST WATCHED Watch time-lapse of severe Chicago storm Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch time-lapse of severe Chicago storm 00:45"The trees were bending sideways, (and) the sky just went really dark and green," Mark Ventrini, a photographer, reported seeing as he headed toward Belmar, New Jersey. "Some of the storms were pretty intense."Emergency managers in Broome County, New York, reported people trapped inside a home because of downed trees in the town of Vestal.Strong storms also caused damage in Binghamton, New York, but the weather service said no injuries or fatalities were reported there.There were also extensive power outages. More than 100,000 First Energy customers in Pennsylvania didn't have electricity Thursday night, while other utilities such as PECO and PPL reported tens of thousands of others similarly in the dark.Cuomo issued a news release stating there were nearly 95,000 homes and businesses without power in New York state, mostly NYSEG and Central Hudson customers.He also declared a state of emergency for hard-hit Chemung County in the southwestern part of the state."The brunt of the storm itself was intense but short -- there was very strong rain and wind for about 15 minutes, at which point the rain cleared and the lightning show began," said Matthew Burke, a CNN iReporter who photographed lightning sprawling across the New York City skyline.