MLB said Rose, 74, was informed of Manfred's decision verbally and in writing that his application has been denied.Manfred wrote in his decision, which was released by MLB on Monday, that consideration for Rose to be reinstated "falls well short" of the requirements needed.Alex Groza led the 1948 U.S. basketball team to an Olympic gold medal, won back-to-back NCAA titles at the University of Kentucky and became a first round NBA selection. Implication in a point-shaving scandal during his college days brought the final buzzer to Groza's NBA career via banishment in 1951.Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Alex Groza led the 1948 U.S. basketball team to an Olympic gold medal, won back-to-back NCAA titles at the University of Kentucky and became a first round NBA selection. Implication in a point-shaving scandal during his college days brought the final buzzer to Groza's NBA career via banishment in 1951.Art Schlichter is serving a 10-year federal prison sentence related to fraud and cocaine use while on probation. This once-promising NFL quarterback was on the receiving end of an indefinite suspension for violating the league's ban on all forms of betting. Ultimately reinstated, Schlichter was cut loose a second time for gambling during his suspension. He would not take another snap in the NFL.Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Art Schlichter is serving a 10-year federal prison sentence related to fraud and cocaine use while on probation. This once-promising NFL quarterback was on the receiving end of an indefinite suspension for violating the league's ban on all forms of betting. Ultimately reinstated, Schlichter was cut loose a second time for gambling during his suspension. He would not take another snap in the NFL.Since Marge Schott's death in 2004, no female has owned a Major League Baseball team. Yet, Schott's inglorious memory lives on thanks to documented racist remarks and an unwritten policy prohibiting the employment of African-Americans within the Reds organization. In 1993, the league banned Schott for a year because of her bigoted opinions. She would return, bringing her insensitive gaffes with her. In 1998, with another suspension in the works, Schott relinquished her controlling interest in the ball club.Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Since Marge Schott's death in 2004, no female has owned a Major League Baseball team. Yet, Schott's inglorious memory lives on thanks to documented racist remarks and an unwritten policy prohibiting the employment of African-Americans within the Reds organization. In 1993, the league banned Schott for a year because of her bigoted opinions. She would return, bringing her insensitive gaffes with her. In 1998, with another suspension in the works, Schott relinquished her controlling interest in the ball club.What happens when a pair of baseball's greatest retirees and Hall of Fame members takes on public relations work for casinos? You ban them for life, of course. At least that's what happened to Willie Mays, left, and Mickey Mantle in 1983. The duo's work consisted mainly of playing golf with high rollers. Good sense prevailed and baseball lifted the ban in 1985.Banned for life: Athletes and owners – What happens when a pair of baseball's greatest retirees and Hall of Fame members takes on public relations work for casinos? You ban them for life, of course. At least that's what happened to Willie Mays, left, and Mickey Mantle in 1983. The duo's work consisted mainly of playing golf with high rollers. Good sense prevailed and baseball lifted the ban in 1985.Chicago Cubs hurler Ferguson Jenkins won 20 games in six consecutive seasons. Yet, in 1980 it was Major League Baseball who shutout Jenkins, making him the first ballplayer to receive a lifetime suspension for a drug offense after he was arrested for cocaine possession. Jenkins secured reinstatement that same year through arbitration and ultimately scored another first when he became the first Canadian-born member of baseball's Hall of Fame.Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Chicago Cubs hurler Ferguson Jenkins won 20 games in six consecutive seasons. Yet, in 1980 it was Major League Baseball who shutout Jenkins, making him the first ballplayer to receive a lifetime suspension for a drug offense after he was arrested for cocaine possession. Jenkins secured reinstatement that same year through arbitration and ultimately scored another first when he became the first Canadian-born member of baseball's Hall of Fame.In 1963, the NFL suffered a double black eye with the banishment of two of football's biggest stars for betting on their respective teams. The culprits, Packers stalwart Paul Hornung, left, and Detroit standout Alex Karras, admitted their transgressions and accepted the punishment, causing Commissioner Pete Rozelle to extend grace and reinstate them after only a year in exile.Banned for life: Athletes and owners – In 1963, the NFL suffered a double black eye with the banishment of two of football's biggest stars for betting on their respective teams. The culprits, Packers stalwart Paul Hornung, left, and Detroit standout Alex Karras, admitted their transgressions and accepted the punishment, causing Commissioner Pete Rozelle to extend grace and reinstate them after only a year in exile.Larger-than-life Yankees owner George Steinbrenner was no stranger to suspensions. After serving a 15-month banishment in 1974, he was called out for life in 1990 for "associating with a gambler" whom he payed $40,000 for potentially damaging personal information about one of his players. Baseball commuted Steinbrenner's punishment two years later, and he returned to his role as "the most hated man in baseball."Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Larger-than-life Yankees owner George Steinbrenner was no stranger to suspensions. After serving a 15-month banishment in 1974, he was called out for life in 1990 for "associating with a gambler" whom he payed $40,000 for potentially damaging personal information about one of his players. Baseball commuted Steinbrenner's punishment two years later, and he returned to his role as "the most hated man in baseball."Two-time Super Bowl champion, Dexter Manley's fans know him as the "Secretary of Defense." Over his cocaine-laced professional football career, he tallied 97.5 quarterback sacks but could not defend himself against four failed drug tests in four years, causing the NFL to sever ties with Manley for good in 1991.Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Two-time Super Bowl champion, Dexter Manley's fans know him as the "Secretary of Defense." Over his cocaine-laced professional football career, he tallied 97.5 quarterback sacks but could not defend himself against four failed drug tests in four years, causing the NFL to sever ties with Manley for good in 1991.Ben Johnson won the gold medal in the men's 100 meter final at the 1988 Summer Olympics but was stripped of the win after testing positive for a banned substance. In 1993, the one-time "world's fastest man" was stopped cold by a lifetime suspension from track and field competition after failing another drug test.Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Ben Johnson won the gold medal in the men's 100 meter final at the 1988 Summer Olympics but was stripped of the win after testing positive for a banned substance. In 1993, the one-time "world's fastest man" was stopped cold by a lifetime suspension from track and field competition after failing another drug test.Words matter. That's what Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling found out in 2014 after a race-fueled conversation cost him the right to have any connection to the NBA or its basketball teams. Although banned, Sterling has sued to maintain ownership of the Clippers.Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Words matter. That's what Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling found out in 2014 after a race-fueled conversation cost him the right to have any connection to the NBA or its basketball teams. Although banned, Sterling has sued to maintain ownership of the Clippers.For a fee of $20,000 each, Joe Jackson and seven of his teammates threw the 1919 World Series. Jackson received only $5,000 of the promised sum but earned a lifetime suspension from Major League Baseball's first commissioner in 1921 for his role in rigging the championship. "Shoeless" Joe's name remains on baseball's ineligible list despite lingering speculation that he did not participate in the fix.Banned for life: Athletes and owners – For a fee of $20,000 each, Joe Jackson and seven of his teammates threw the 1919 World Series. Jackson received only $5,000 of the promised sum but earned a lifetime suspension from Major League Baseball's first commissioner in 1921 for his role in rigging the championship. "Shoeless" Joe's name remains on baseball's ineligible list despite lingering speculation that he did not participate in the fix.The first female figure skater to complete a triple axel in competition, Tonya Harding scored a lifetime ban in 1994 from U.S. Figure Skating after her ex-husband attacked rival skater, Nancy Kerrigan. The U.S. Federation concluded Harding knew about the attack beforehand and engaged in "unethical behavior."Banned for life: Athletes and owners – The first female figure skater to complete a triple axel in competition, Tonya Harding scored a lifetime ban in 1994 from U.S. Figure Skating after her ex-husband attacked rival skater, Nancy Kerrigan. The U.S. Federation concluded Harding knew about the attack beforehand and engaged in "unethical behavior."Lance Armstrong's seven yellow jerseys seemed indicative of a solid gold reputation, but the Tour De France Champion and Olympic bronze medalist's image was forever tarnished in 2012 when the International Cycling Union banned him from competition thanks to evidence of career-long doping.Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Lance Armstrong's seven yellow jerseys seemed indicative of a solid gold reputation, but the Tour De France Champion and Olympic bronze medalist's image was forever tarnished in 2012 when the International Cycling Union banned him from competition thanks to evidence of career-long doping.His 4,256 hits were not enough to keep Pete Rose from agreeing to expulsion from Major League Baseball for life after evidence surfaced showing Rose bet not only on baseball games but also on the Reds team he managed. Although Rose could apply for reinstatement after 1989, the ban's first year, he is still in exile 25 years later.Banned for life: Athletes and owners – His 4,256 hits were not enough to keep Pete Rose from agreeing to expulsion from Major League Baseball for life after evidence surfaced showing Rose bet not only on baseball games but also on the Reds team he managed. Although Rose could apply for reinstatement after 1989, the ban's first year, he is still in exile 25 years later."Mr. Rose's public and private comments, including his initial admission in 2004, provide me with little confidence that he has a mature understanding of his wrongful conduct, that he has accepted full responsibility for it, or that he understands the damage he has caused," Manfred wrote.Rose, who is MLB's all-time hits leader with 4,256, was banned for life in August 1989 for betting on baseball. Rose denied betting on baseball then and continued to deny it for 14 years. In 2004, Rose admitted in his autobiography, "My Prison Without Bars," that he did bet on baseball while managing the Cincinnati Reds.Pete Rose attorney Ray Genco expressed disappointment at the ruling and said Rose will address the media Tuesday at 11 a.m. Pacific Time (2 p.m. Eastern Time).He said that Rose had met the standard put forth by Bart Giamatti who, during his brief tenure as MLB commissioner (he died a few months after taking office in 1989), helped negotiate Rose's voluntary departure from baseball."While we may have failed at our task of presenting all the facts to the (current Commissioner Rob Manfred) demonstrating how Pete has grown and changed over the past three decades, Pete indeed has meaningfully reconfigured his life -- the standard laid out (by) Commissioner Giamatti," Genco said."Pete's fall from grace is without parallel. He recognizes that it was also of his own making."As such, Pete seeks to be judged not simply by the mistakes of his past -- but also by the work he has done over the last three decades in taking responsibility for his actions -- constantly working to remain disciplined, compassionate and grateful."Pete regards the institution of the game as what matters most. Therefore, he will continue to do all that he can to honor its greatness- and remain its most enthusiastic fan."Manfred made it clear that his decision on Rose has no impact on his eligibility for the National Baseball Hall of Fame, which, notably, is not run by MLB.Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Alex Rodriguez: Performance-enhancing drugs – Alex Rodriguez is suspended for the 2014 regular and postseason over accusations of taking performance-enhancing drugs and having ties to the now-shuttered Biogenesis clinic in South Florida. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Barry Bonds: Perjury indictment – Barry Bonds is baseball's all-time home run leader, but some commentators say there should be an asterisk by his record. Though he's said he never knowingly used steroids, two San Francisco reporters wrote a book alleging he used performance-enhancing drugs. In 2007, he was indicted on charges of perjury and obstructing justice for allegedly lying to a grand jury investigating steroids and convicted of obstruction of justice. Here are some of Major League Baseball's biggest scandals: Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Roger Clemens: Steroid allegations – Known as Rocket for his aggressive pitching style, Roger Clemens played pro ball for more than two decades, racking up seven Cy Young Awards. He left Major League Baseball under a cloud of steroid allegations, despite a court finding him not guilty of perjury in 2012 when he told Congress he never used the drugs. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Rafael Palmeiro: Steroid suspension – After his former Texas Rangers teammate Jose Canseco accused him of using steroids, Rafael Palmeiro appeared before Congress in 2005 to deny the allegations. Later that year, he was suspended from baseball for testing positive for steroids. He maintains to this day he has never knowingly taken performance enhancers. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Mark McGwire: Steroids admission – An Olympian and renowned long-ball hitter, Mark McGwire spent his entire career with the Oakland A's and St. Louis Cardinals, breaking the single-season home run record in 1998. In 2010, he admitted using steroids over the course of a decade but told Bob Costas in an interview he took them only for health reasons. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals John Rocker: Outrageous comments – John Rocker's pitching career with the Atlanta Braves only lasted a few seasons because of his offensive comments about homosexuals, New Yorkers, Asian women and a black teammate in a Sports Illustrated article. Rocker faced large backlash and ultimately was cut by the Braves in 2001 and played for three other teams before calling it quits in 2003. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Marge Schott: Hitler observation – Cincinnati Reds owner Marge Schott faced lawsuits, fines from the MLB and suspensions during her career for her offhand comments and actions. Schott told ESPN in 1996 that "Hitler was good in the beginning, but he went too far." That comment drew a $25,000 fine and one-year suspension. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals George Steinbrenner: Dirty dealings – Former New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, center, was banned for life in 1990 for hiring a man to investigate Yankees outfielder Dave Winfield's background for any dirt. The ban was later reduced to a two-year suspension. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Pete Rose: Gambling on baseball – Cincinnati Reds switch-hitter Pete Rose was caught gambling on baseball games during the 1987 season. Fingerprints from betting slips and a handwriting expert's testimony ultimately led to Rose being banned from baseball. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Darryl Strawberry: Cocaine, prostitutes – Darryl Strawberry, right, was suspended multiple times throughout his career for cocaine possession and soliciting prostitutes. Strawberry released a book in which he claims that several players with the 1980s Mets committed the same offenses. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Ferguson Jenkins: First drug suspension – Pitcher Ferguson Jenkins was the first baseball player to be suspended for a drug-related offense. Ferguson was arrested in Toronto in 1980 for cocaine possession and promptly banned for life. However, the ban was lifted only a month later and he returned to the pitchers mound for the Chicago Cubs in 1982. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Chicago White Sox: The big fix – Gambler Arnold Rothstein was the financial backer accused of being behind the fixed 1919 World Series. Eight Chicago White Sox players were allegedly bribed to throw the game with money provided by Rothstein. He denied all allegations before a grand jury and was later exonerated of any wrongdoing. All eight players involved in the fix were banned for life. Hide Caption 12 of 12"It is not a part of my authority or responsibility here to make any determination concerning Mr. Rose's eligibility as a candidate for election to the National Baseball Hall of Fame," Manfred wrote. "In fact, in my view, the considerations that should drive a decision on whether an individual should be allowed to work in Baseball are not the same as those that should drive a decision on Hall of Fame eligibility."Manfred also wrote that Hall of Fame policy is an entirely different determination and that his only concern is protecting the integrity of play on the field through appropriate enforcement of Major League Baseball rules."Any debate over Mr. Rose's eligibility for the Hall of Fame is one that must take place in a different forum," Manfred wrote.On February 26, Rose's attorneys advised Manfred of Rose's request for reinstatement, saying that Rose had accepted responsibility for his mistakes and their consequences and that he was sorry for betting on baseball.Manfred said he requested his staff conduct a comprehensive review of all materials concerning the Rose case, which included John Dowd's report from 1989 -- Dowd served as special counsel to three commissioners of Major League Baseball in the investigations of Pete Rose, George Steinbrenner, and others. The materials also included a copy of a notebook that apparently shows records of bets placed in 1986 by a man named Michael Bertolini, who allegedly placed bets on behalf of Rose. The notebook's existence was revealed by ESPN in June this year, suggesting Rose may have bet on baseball when he was an active player, contradicting Rose's story, according to reporting by ESPN.Rose and Manfred met on September 24. In that meeting, Rose told Manfred that he bet "extensively" on Reds games in 1987. However, Manfred wrote, Rose said he could not remember facts from the Dowd Report that showed he bet on baseball as a player."He made assertions concerning his betting habits that were directly contradicted by documentary evidence (the Bertolini Notebook) secured by my office following the publication of the ESPN story on June 23, 2015," Manfred wrote, "And, significantly, he told me that currently he bets recreationally and legally on horses and sports, including Baseball."