Baltimore (CNN) Jurors ended their first day of deliberations Monday in the first of six trials related to the death of Freddie Gray , who died after suffering a spinal cord injury in police custody in April.They are expected to resume their work at 8:30 a.m. ET on Tuesday.Baltimore police Officer William Porter is charged with one count of involuntary manslaughter, second-degree assault, misconduct in office and reckless endangerment.If convicted, the officer faces a maximum sentence of 10 years or a minimum of probation.After they got the case, jurors sent back some questions. They asked for transcripts of police radio calls and Porter's taped interview from April 17. They asked for definitions of "evil motive," "bad faith" and "not honestly," and they had some procedural questions, such as when they could break for the day and whether their room would be locked overnight.Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case Lt. Brian Rice, who was part of the bike patrol that arrested Gray. On July 18, 2016, Rice was found not guilty of involuntary manslaughter, reckless endangerment and misconduct in office in connection with Gray's arrest and death. Six Baltimore police officers were charged in the April 2015 death of Freddie Gray, who died of a severe spinal-cord injury while in police custody. But there were no convictions in the case. Three of the officers were acquitted before prosecutors dropped the charges against the remaining three in July 2016 . Seen here is, who was part of the bike patrol that arrested Gray. On July 18, 2016, Rice was found not guilty of involuntary manslaughter, reckless endangerment and misconduct in office in connection with Gray's arrest and death. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case Caesar Goodson drove the van in which Gray was fatally injured. On June 23, Goodson Officerdrove the van in which Gray was fatally injured. On June 23, Goodson was found not guilty on all charges, including the most serious count of second-degree depraved-heart murder. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case William Porter was the first of the six officers to face a trial. It was the first of the six officers to face a trial. It ended in a mistrial in December, and he had been scheduled to be retried before prosecutors dropped the charges against him. Porter was summoned by the van's driver to check on Gray during stops on the way to a police station. Prosecutors said Porter should have called a medic for Gray sooner than one was eventually called, and they said he also should have ensured that Gray was wearing a seat belt. Porter had been charged with involuntary manslaughter, second-degree assault, reckless endangerment and misconduct in office. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case Edward Nero, one of three bike officers involved in the initial police encounter with Gray, , one of three bike officers involved in the initial police encounter with Gray, was found not guilty of all charges in May. He was accused of second-degree intentional assault, two counts of misconduct in office and reckless endangerment. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case Garrett Miller was another one of the bike officers involved in Gray's arrest. He placed Gray in a restraining technique known as a "leg lace" before Gray was placed in the van, said Marilyn Mosby, the state's attorney for Baltimore. All charges were dropped against Miller, who had been indicted on charges of second-degree intentional assault, two counts of misconduct in office and reckless endangerment. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case Sgt. Alicia White was present during one of the stops to check on Gray's condition. She and two other officers saw Gray unresponsive on the floor of the van, and when White spoke to Gray and he did not respond, she allegedly did nothing to help him, prosecutors said. All charges were dropped against White, who had been indicted on charges of involuntary manslaughter, second-degree negligent assault, misconduct in office and reckless endangerment. Hide Caption 6 of 6Earlier, the judge read instructions to the jury -- made up of three black men, four black women, three white women and two white men -- before prosecutors and the defense gave their closing arguments.With a verdict imminent, the city of Baltimore -- which witnessed protests and unrest after Gray's death -- activated its emergency operations center "out of an abundance of caution."Out of an abundance of caution, I activated Baltimore City's Emergency Operations Center at 10:00 a.m. — Mayor Rawlings-Blake (@MayorSRB) December 14, 2015Last week, Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake and Police Commissioner Kevin Davis cautioned the city to be respectful as the verdict gets closer."Whatever the jury decides, we must all respect the process," the mayor said last week. "If some choose to demonstrate to express their opinion, that is their right, and we respect that right, and we will fight to protect it. But all of us today agree that the unrest from last spring is not acceptable."Davis sent a letter to the police force on Monday, saying, "Regardless of the outcome of this trial or any future trial, we refuse to surrender to the low expectations of those who wish to see us fail. ... We serve because we know so many good and decent Baltimoreans need us to stand in between them and crime, disorder, and chaos."Baltimore police canceled leave for officers who had days off from Monday through Friday. Officers will be scheduled to work 12-hour shifts instead of the usual 10 hours.'How long does it take to click a seat belt?'During closing arguments, prosecutor Janice Bledsoe argued that any officer in Porter's situation would have called for medical assistance once Gray complained."'I need a medic,'" the prosecutor said, quoting Gray. "How long does that take? How long does it take to click a seat belt and ask for a medic? Is two, three, maybe four seconds worth a life? That's all it would have taken."JUST WATCHED Active Baltimore police officers speak on riots, crime Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Active Baltimore police officers speak on riots, crime 02:08Using video clips of Porter's statements and video from the scene, prosecutors argued that Porter knew that Gray was too injured to be booked into jail, but did nothing."You are looking into the wagon and then you turn your back on Freddie Gray," Bledsoe said.By Porter doing nothing and closing the doors of the wagon, knowing Gray was not OK, the prosecution said, "that van became his casket on wheels."'An absolute absence of evidence'Then, it was the defense's turn.Defense attorney William Murtha, during his closing arguments, went through all of the witnesses who testified during the trial and said the state didn't meet its burden to prove its case, citing "the absence of evidence in this case, the absence of real evidence."The prosecution's case was full of holes, he argued."The state is asking you to insert facts into the blanks that don't exist," he told jurors.Photos: Freddie Gray protests across U.S. Photos: Freddie Gray protests across U.S. Close to 300 protesters in Columbus, Ohio, attend a solidarity march for Baltimore on Saturday, May 2. People in cities across the United States have showed their support for protesters in Baltimore . Click through the gallery to see more: Hide Caption 1 of 9 Photos: Freddie Gray protests across U.S. Durmel Coleman, 23, marches as the flag bearer in a Philadelphia protest over the death of Freddy Gray on Thursday, April 30. Hide Caption 2 of 9 Photos: Freddie Gray protests across U.S. NBA star Carmelo Anthony of the New York Knicks marches with protesters from Baltimore's Sandtown neighborhood to City Hall on April 30. Hide Caption 3 of 9 Photos: Freddie Gray protests across U.S. Protesters fill Union Square in New York on Wednesday, April 29, during a rally. Hide Caption 4 of 9 Photos: Freddie Gray protests across U.S. Demonstrators march with a police escort near Boston police headquarters on April 29. Hide Caption 5 of 9 Photos: Freddie Gray protests across U.S. People in Minneapolis march during a rally on April 29. Hide Caption 6 of 9 Photos: Freddie Gray protests across U.S. Police restrain a man during a "NYC Rise Up & Shut It Down With Baltimore" rally April 29 in New York. Hide Caption 7 of 9 Photos: Freddie Gray protests across U.S. Protesters rally in front of the White House April 29. Hide Caption 8 of 9 Photos: Freddie Gray protests across U.S. Police officers carry a man away in Union Square in New York on April 29. More than 100 people were arrested during demonstrations, New York police said. Hide Caption 9 of 9It is hard for people to set aside their emotions, Murtha told the jury, but that is precisely what they are sworn to do.The defense made a big point of the fact that the law requires jurors to reach a verdict based on the "standard of a reasonable police officer.""There is an absolute absence of evidence that officer Porter acted in an unreasonable manner," he said.'A nice (and) honest guy'On Friday, Porter's mother, Helena, described him as "a nice (and) honest guy.""He likes to keep the peace," she added. "He's the peacemaker."Baltimore police Capt. Justin Reynolds also testified for the defense, explaining that the "transporting officer" is responsible for those taken into custody. Porter was not the transporting officer in Gray's case.When Porter helped Gray onto a bench in the wagon during one of the stops that April day, he did more than he was required to do, according to Reynolds."He went beyond what he could have and still kept within the policy," Reynolds testified.Porter, 26, has said Gray was kicking the inside of the police van en route to the station, and he had tried to kick out the window of a patrol car during an arrest a few weeks earlier.Report finds gaps in unrest preparednessAuthorities say Gray broke his neck on April 12 while being transported in the police van, shackled but not wearing a seat belt. He died a week later.His death sparked outrage and demonstrations, some of which were plagued by arson, vandalism and looting, despite his family's pleas for peace.Photos: Faces of Baltimore Photos: Faces of Baltimore Ma'lae Jones lives in Sandtown-Winchester, the same neighborhood in which Freddie Gray was raised. She is a kindergarten student at New Song Academy. "I want to be a ballet teacher" when I grow up, she said. The trial for the first of the six police officers charged in the death of Freddie Gray is due to begin Monday in Baltimore. The death of Gray while in police custody sparked some of the most violent protests the city has ever seen. It's been seven months since Gray's death. We returned to Baltimore to photograph residents as the city works to make sense of the year's events. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore Born and raised in Baltimore, Kondwani Fidel had a tough upbringing and knows what it means to lose loved ones to violence. Fidel is a substitute teacher and spoken word artist. His poems tell stories of a rough upbringing in Baltimore while attempting to inspire change. When using poetry to connect with students, "I used my story as a blueprint for them," said Fidel. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore As the new police commissioner of Baltimore, Kevin Davis came into his role in the immediate aftermath of the unrest. This is a pivotal point for the city, said Davis. "People who find themselves in the midst of a historic moment don't always realize that they are in the midst of a historic moment," he said, "I realize that's where we are." Davis is starting by establishing relationships with various groups in the community to prevent the type of unrest the city experienced in April and May. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore A 44-year veteran of Baltimore schools, Nancy Neilson, principal of New Song Academy, says there is something special about her current school. All of the students come from the immediate neighborhood in west Baltimore. Her students perform better than many of their counterparts, but unfortunately, it is not rare for them to be touched by the prevalent violence in the community. During the unrest earlier this year, "they were frightened because they didn't know what was going to happen," Neilson said. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore Niamke Nnamdi graduated from high school last year, and he is ready for the next step. "I am joining the Army," he said. After taking entry exams, Niamke qualifies for almost any position in the Army. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore "There was a sense of collective outrage about what happened to Freddie Gray that tapped into a deep well of despair," said William Murphy, the attorney for the family of Freddie Gray. He says the biggest lesson that Baltimore can take away from the year's events is "that you can only ignore a group of people for so long." Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore Former mayor of Baltimore, Sheila Dixon has emerged back into the spotlight after her 2010 resignation as part of a plea agreement in a criminal case. "I am beyond that," Dixon said, "That doesn't define who I am." Dixon says she is focused on rallying behind communities, addressing the dramatic rise in homicides and providing strong leadership. Neither Freddie Gray case nor the unrest that followed prompted the campaign, Dixon said. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore A bartender at restaurant in the Canton neighborhood of Baltimore, Lincoln Kosman remembers the days after the riots. During the citywide curfew, Kosman said residents looked out for each other, and people checked on their neighbors. "It's affected the city in a good way," he said. "People have come together." While the spotlight remained on Baltimore, Kosman said, "I really hope that we show we're a good city. I hope we do ourselves proud now that everyone is watching." Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore Kaleb Tshamba belongs to the historic Arch Social Club. More than 100 years old, the club has been traditionally African American and for males only. "We are one of the only historic black places left in Baltimore," Tshamba said. The club sits across the street from the CVS store that was burned during the April riot. Tshamba and other members of the club participate in the 300 Men March, which calls for a stop to violence. A sign on the front of the club's building reads, "We must stop killing each other." Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore Tyler Fullwood, 13, make A's and B's in school and wants to be a lawyer when he grows up. As the oldest of three siblings, Fullwood said he sometimes fears for the safety of his family and friends. "There was a shooting behind the school and a student almost got hurt," he said. Some parts of Baltimore are dangerous, but it's not all bad, he added. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore Brittony McKenney had traveled around the world with the Navy by her mid-20s. Though she loved traveling, after six years, she said, "That was enough for me." Now McKenney is a year away from earning her bachelor's degree in broadcast journalism. "I thought coming back to Baltimore would taint my growth and the frame of mind I had," she said, "But it did the opposite. It enhanced me even more." Baltimore is rich with culture, compassion and love, McKenney said. "No matter where I go, I'll always be Baltimore." Hide Caption 11 of 11An independent report by researchers at Johns Hopkins University released Friday cited gaps in Baltimore's preparedness for the unrest.The researchers made recommendations similar to those in an earlier report, including the development of policies for mass demonstrations and improved intelligence-gathering, according to a statement from Rawlings-Blake, the mayor. Many of the recommendations have already been implemented.Porter's testimonyDuring his four-hour testimony Wednesday , Porter said that of the roughly 150 prisoners he has placed in police wagons since joining the Baltimore Police Department in 2010, none was secured with a seat belt -- in part, out of concern for officers' safety while in the wagon's tight quarters.Prisoners were never secured with seat belts during field training, and though cadets were instructed to secure prisoners with seat belts, they were not shown how, Porter said."It is the responsibility of the wagon driver to get the prisoner from point A to point B," he told the jury.Prosecutors say Gray didn't get the medical help he asked for during one stop of the van. An autopsy showed his spinal column was "functionally" severed. The cause of his death was a neck injury, and the manner of his death was homicide, a medical examiner testified earlier this month.Porter has testified that Gray didn't ask to be transported to the hospital until the fourth of six stops along the 45-minute ride to the police station. Porter relayed the information to the driver, he testified, but he didn't call a medic because Gray didn't appear to be injured and didn't articulate what was wrong.