Baltimore (CNN) Officer William Porter acted reasonably in not seat belting Freddie Gray in a police wagon and in waiting to call for medical assistance until he could see that Gray was injured, a former Baltimore Police Department commander testified Thursday.Timothy Longo, who is now the police chief in Charlottesville, Virginia, said general orders -- such as the one issued days before Gray's death stating that prisoners should be secured in the back of police vans -- are merely "guiding principles" and "are clearly administrative in purpose." Such orders contain caveats providing for an officer's discretion, even if they say they don't, he said."Police officers make discretionary decisions every day," he said. "I don't think a policy would remove that discretionary judgment."Porter, 26, the first of six officers to face trial in Gray's April death, has said that Gray was kicking the inside of the police van en route to the station, and he had tried to kick out the window of a patrol car during an arrest a few weeks earlier.So, according to Longo, when Porter checked on Gray during a stop and helped him onto a bench, there was no real obligation to secure Gray because he had been combative."He had reason to believe that at some point in time there was some resistance," Longo said. "I believe his actions were objectively reasonable under the circumstances he was presented with at the time."Though the prosecution claimed Gray was "docile" during this particular stop, Longo argued that Porter was armed with a gun and prisoners have been known to get out of shackles and handcuffs. Circumstances can change quickly, he said, and Gray's "level of danger could change in a split second."Matthew Wood, a three-year police veteran, testified for the defense that he heard yelling inside the wagon during the first stop."I could tell the wagon was shaking back and forth, like side to side," Wood said, adding that he also heard a sound "like a banging off of metal or something like that."Under cross examination, Wood said he had learned from veteran officers that prisoners needed to wear seat belts. But he testified that he never saw an officer use a seat belt in a wagon before the day of Gray's fatal injury.When did Gray break neck?Another defense witness, Dr. Matthew Ammerman, a neurosurgeon, told the court earlier Thursday that Gray's fatal neck injury could not have happened before the police van's fourth stop, as alleged by the prosecution.The timing of the 25-year-old's fatal neck injury is key because Porter has testified that Gray didn't ask to be transported to the hospital until the fourth of six stops along the 45-minute ride to the police station. Porter relayed the information to the driver, he testified Wednesday, but he didn't call a medic because Gray didn't appear injured and didn't articulate what was wrong.JUST WATCHED Freddie Gray: How did we get here? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Freddie Gray: How did we get here? 02:07Longo testified those, too, were reasonable decisions because Gray did not exhibit any injuries and because protocol dictates that the van's driver, not Porter, should have been held accountable for the prisoner's safety."Once that person is in the custody of the van or wagon driver, he or she has ultimate responsibility," he said.And one of Porter's fellow officers, Mark Gladhill, told the court about a time when he transported a woman to the hospital because she said she was pregnant. It turned out she wasn't. Prisoners sometimes fake injuries, he said."If I do not see any visible signs they needed a medic and there was no need ... I would proceed on," he testified.Previously Thursday, Ammerman told the court that Gray's injury was not survivable and that it would have immediately brought Gray's ability to breathe and speak to a halt, rather than affecting him progressively."I believe he had a complete spinal cord injury at the time of injury," Ammerman said. "He couldn't say he is short of breath (after the injury) because he couldn't speak."Experts disagreeAmmerman -- who acknowledged he was being paid $10,000 for his testimony, plus $4,000 to $6,000 for his review of records -- further testified he was aware of previous expert testimony that Gray might have survived if he'd received prompt treatment, but he did not concur."I believe that, unfortunately, with these types of spinal cord injuries, the result is death," the neurosurgeon said.As for the state's contention that Gray had a seizure between the fifth and sixth stops -- thus allegedly explaining the banging that Donta Allen, another detainee in the van, reportedly heard -- Ammerman said, "I just don't see how a patient could move their head with that type of injury."JUST WATCHED First trial in Freddie Gray's death begins Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH First trial in Freddie Gray's death begins 05:36A previous defense witness, Dr. Vincent Di Maio, a forensic pathologist, testified he believes Gray's fatal injury happened later -- between the van's fifth and sixth stops. A medic was called during the sixth stop.Di Maio also said that he believed Gray's death should've been deemed accidental, despite Dr. Carol Allan, the assistant state medical examiner, testifying Monday that she classified Gray's death as a homicide because of the delay in getting him medical attention. She also asserted that Gray suffered his neck injury between the van's second and fourth stops, probably when the van stopped suddenly.Prosecutors allege Porter did not promptly summon medical assistance for Gray, nor did he buckle him into a seat belt, as was department policy.Officer took standPorter contended during his four-hour testimony Wednesday that of the roughly 150 prisoners he has placed in a police wagon since joining the Baltimore Police Department in 2010, none was secured with a seat belt -- in part, out of concern for officers' safety while in the wagon's tight quarters. Prisoners were never secured with seat belts during field training, and though cadets were instructed to secure prisoners with seat belts, they were not shown how, Porter said."It is the responsibility of the wagon driver to get the prisoner from point A to point B," he told the jury.Gladhill backed up his colleague during his testimony, saying, "I've never seen anyone seat belted in a wagon."There are no cages in patrol cars, so it's common to apply seat belts in a cruiser for officer safety, but when prisoners "are actually in the wagon my understanding is the wagon driver is responsible for the detainee," he testified.Porter said he and another officer attempted to assist Gray after finding him in the back of the police van with mucus around his nose and mouth.JUST WATCHED Baltimore officer takes stand in Freddie Gray case Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Baltimore officer takes stand in Freddie Gray case 02:26They placed Gray in a "lifesaving position" and waited for what "felt like an eternity" for a medic to arrive, Porter told the jury.Gladhill testified that when he saw Gray, on the fifth stop, before he arrived at the station, Gray was not resting his head against anything and was holding his head up."You are positive that Mr. Gray was holding his own head up?" he was asked, to which he replied, "Yes. I'm positive."Porter said he never believed Gray needed immediate medical attention until the final stop. Asked whether Gray said he couldn't breathe, Porter replied, "Absolutely not.""Are you sorry Freddie Gray died?" one of his lawyers asked."Absolutely," said Porter, explaining he knew Gray from the West Baltimore neighborhood he was charged with patrolling."Freddie Gray and I weren't friends, but we had a mutual respect," Porter said. "Any kind of loss of life, I'm sorry to see that."A call for calmAuthorities say Gray broke his neck April 12 while being transported in a police van, shackled but not wearing a seat belt. He died a week later. The prosecution rested its case Tuesday."This defendant did nothing to get him a medic or get him to the hospital. He did nothing when he could have saved a man's life," State's Attorney Michael Schatzow has said in court.Photos: Faces of Baltimore Photos: Faces of Baltimore Ma'lae Jones lives in Sandtown-Winchester, the same neighborhood in which Freddie Gray was raised. She is a kindergarten student at New Song Academy. "I want to be a ballet teacher" when I grow up, she said. The trial for the first of the six police officers charged in the death of Freddie Gray is due to begin Monday in Baltimore. The death of Gray while in police custody sparked some of the most violent protests the city has ever seen. It's been seven months since Gray's death. We returned to Baltimore to photograph residents as the city works to make sense of the year's events. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore Born and raised in Baltimore, Kondwani Fidel had a tough upbringing and knows what it means to lose loved ones to violence. Fidel is a substitute teacher and spoken word artist. His poems tell stories of a rough upbringing in Baltimore while attempting to inspire change. When using poetry to connect with students, "I used my story as a blueprint for them," said Fidel. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore As the new police commissioner of Baltimore, Kevin Davis came into his role in the immediate aftermath of the unrest. This is a pivotal point for the city, said Davis. "People who find themselves in the midst of a historic moment don't always realize that they are in the midst of a historic moment," he said, "I realize that's where we are." Davis is starting by establishing relationships with various groups in the community to prevent the type of unrest the city experienced in April and May. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore A 44-year veteran of Baltimore schools, Nancy Neilson, principal of New Song Academy, says there is something special about her current school. All of the students come from the immediate neighborhood in west Baltimore. Her students perform better than many of their counterparts, but unfortunately, it is not rare for them to be touched by the prevalent violence in the community. During the unrest earlier this year, "they were frightened because they didn't know what was going to happen," Neilson said. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore Niamke Nnamdi graduated from high school last year, and he is ready for the next step. "I am joining the Army," he said. After taking entry exams, Niamke qualifies for almost any position in the Army. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore "There was a sense of collective outrage about what happened to Freddie Gray that tapped into a deep well of despair," said William Murphy, the attorney for the family of Freddie Gray. He says the biggest lesson that Baltimore can take away from the year's events is "that you can only ignore a group of people for so long." Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore Former mayor of Baltimore, Sheila Dixon has emerged back into the spotlight after her 2010 resignation as part of a plea agreement in a criminal case. "I am beyond that," Dixon said, "That doesn't define who I am." Dixon says she is focused on rallying behind communities, addressing the dramatic rise in homicides and providing strong leadership. Neither Freddie Gray case nor the unrest that followed prompted the campaign, Dixon said. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore A bartender at restaurant in the Canton neighborhood of Baltimore, Lincoln Kosman remembers the days after the riots. During the citywide curfew, Kosman said residents looked out for each other, and people checked on their neighbors. "It's affected the city in a good way," he said. "People have come together." While the spotlight remained on Baltimore, Kosman said, "I really hope that we show we're a good city. I hope we do ourselves proud now that everyone is watching." Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore Kaleb Tshamba belongs to the historic Arch Social Club. More than 100 years old, the club has been traditionally African American and for males only. "We are one of the only historic black places left in Baltimore," Tshamba said. The club sits across the street from the CVS store that was burned during the April riot. Tshamba and other members of the club participate in the 300 Men March, which calls for a stop to violence. A sign on the front of the club's building reads, "We must stop killing each other." Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore Tyler Fullwood, 13, make A's and B's in school and wants to be a lawyer when he grows up. As the oldest of three siblings, Fullwood said he sometimes fears for the safety of his family and friends. "There was a shooting behind the school and a student almost got hurt," he said. Some parts of Baltimore are dangerous, but it's not all bad, he added. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Faces of Baltimore Brittony McKenney had traveled around the world with the Navy by her mid-20s. Though she loved traveling, after six years, she said, "That was enough for me." Now McKenney is a year away from earning her bachelor's degree in broadcast journalism. "I thought coming back to Baltimore would taint my growth and the frame of mind I had," she said, "But it did the opposite. It enhanced me even more." Baltimore is rich with culture, compassion and love, McKenney said. "No matter where I go, I'll always be Baltimore." Hide Caption 11 of 11Porter has pleaded not guilty to charges of involuntary manslaughter, second-degree assault, misconduct in office and reckless endangerment.Gray's death has sparked outrage and demonstrations, some of which were plagued by arson, vandalism and looting despite his family's pleas for peace.Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake joined Police Commissioner Kevin Davis at a news conference Wednesday to ask the public to respect the judicial process."Whether you agree or whether you disagree with the jury's ultimate verdict, our reaction needs to be one of respect in Baltimore's neighborhoods, and the residents and businesses who make up our city should reflect that respect," she said.The trial is expected to end by December 17.