Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) It's Christmas Eve, and we wish we could bring you only good tidings. But the world won't cooperate. So, here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door:DEADLY STORMS: It's not spring, but it felt like it across the South last night as storms ripped through the region. Twisters popped up, but most of the damage was caused by a single tornado . It hit the ground in northern Mississippi and ground up the earth all the way to western Tennessee. That's about 150 miles -- and it may have set a record for the longest track December tornado in the mid-South. At least seven people died.People inspect a storm-damaged home in the Roundaway community near Clarksdale, Mississippi, on Wednesday.AIRPORT SECURITY: Don't like going through the see-under-your-clothes body scanner at the airport? Well, tough. Soon you may have to pass through it , even if you ask for a pat-down. Why? Because the scanners can better spot weapons. Again, why? Because terrorism.BRAZIL OUTBREAKPregnant pause: Let's Marvin Gaye and get it on. Not so fast, Brazil. There's been a serious uptick in newborn microcephaly there. And until doctors can figure out what the heck is going on, they're asking couples to : Let's Marvin Gaye and get it on. Not so fast, Brazil. There's been a serious uptick in newborn microcephaly there. And until doctors can figure out what the heck is going on, they're asking couples to hit pause on the bebeh-making button . The disorder causes serious developmental issues. Officials think it's resulting from a virus called Zika, carried by mosquitoes. So add that to the list of annoying reasons all mosquitoes need to go.JUST WATCHED What is the Zika virus? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is the Zika virus? 01:55PLANNED PARENTHOOD SHOOTINGDisorder in the court: Staying quiet in court is not Robert Dear's thing. The suspect in last month's shooting at a Colorado Planned Parenthood clinic : Staying quiet in court is not Robert Dear's thing. The suspect in last month's shooting at a Colorado Planned Parenthood clinic raised a ruckus during a hearing yesterday, just like he did a couple of weeks ago. He dogged out his defense team and asked to represent himself. The judge had heard enough and ordered Dear examined at a mental hospital. Surprisingly, Dear plans on putting a muzzle on it there: "I'm not going to say one word."Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs A suspect is in custody on Friday, November 27, in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Police were in a shootout with a gunman inside a Planned Parenthood facility, hours after a shooter was first reported in the area. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs People in the building across from Planned Parenthood in Colorado Springs start to emerge from hiding. Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs A bus of evacuees make its way towards neighboring hospitals. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Colorado Springs Fire Department Chief Christopher Riley, center, takes questions from the media. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs An unidentified victim is transported to an ambulance. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs People are helped to safety. It was not immediately clear at the time of the attack whether Planned Parenthood was the target of the shooting. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs An officer waits at an intersection near the scene of a shooting. Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs A woman is escorted to an ambulance by police near the scene. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Police sit on the roof of a Chase Bank branch across the parking lot from the scene at Fillmore Street and Centennial Boulevard. Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Colorado Springs Police Lt. Catherine Buckley addresses the media during the incident. Eleven people have been transported to local hospitals, she said. Five are police officers from various responding agencies. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Colorado Springs rescue personnel stand ready near the scene. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs People are escorted to an ambulance during the standoff. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs A police officer stands guard. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Rescued people are escorted from the area by emergency personnel. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs The shooting, first reported around 11:30 a.m. (1:30 p.m. ET), left a nearby shopping center on lockdown as police searched for the gunman. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs An officer patrols the perimeter. Denise Speller, who works at a nearby salon, said she heard at least 10 gunshots go off and saw a police officer get hit. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs It was not immediately clear whether Planned Parenthood was the target of the shooting. Police said the original 911 call came from the building. Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Police officers respond to the scene. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Colorado Springs police officers search the area near the scene. Hide Caption 19 of 19BEIJING THREATSomething's up: Something odd is going on in Beijing, but no one's talking. The British and the American embassies say they've received : Something odd is going on in Beijing, but no one's talking. The British and the American embassies say they've received word of possible threats against Westerners visiting a popular shopping district around Christmas. Beijing cops have stepped up their presence there, but say it's because so many shoppers will be out and about. It's all very unusual.MORNING JOLTBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:"My friend Ted Cruz has still not pledged to issue exec order declaring Canadian 'bacon' is not real bacon. Makes me suspicious."-- Rand Paul, taking a good-natured shot at the Canadian-born Cruz during his annual Festivus ribbing . If this running-for-president thing doesn't work out, he's got a bright future as a roast emcee.The cat's me-owlBecause what's more punk that compostable coffee bagsGreen Day is launching its own coffee . In case you need something to wake you up (when September ends).Let it snow, let it snow, let it snowIf, like Bing Crosby, you're dreaming of a white Christmas, then be like Aerosmith and dream on. If you're in the East, it ain't gonna happen. Blame it on that old faithful, El NinoBloodbath and beyondIf a nuclear war were to break out in 1959, the U.S. plan was to blow East Berlin, Moscow and Beijing to smithereens - civilian deaths be damned. Sure glad we dodged that bullet.I see skies of blue and clouds of whiteThis stunning pic of Earth that NASA just released will have you humming along, "And I think to myself what a wonderful world."AND FINALLY ...Here, there and everywhereFinally, finally, the entire Beatles catalog is now available for streaming across the universe. Happy Crimble indeed!