Riverside, California (CNN) "No one really knows me," the Facebook posting read. "I lead multiple lives and I'm wondering when it's all going to collapse on me."Enrique Marquez, then an innocuous Walmart employee and part-time security guard at a bar, made this foreboding post on November 5.Marquez, 24, a childhood friend and neighbor of killer Syed Rizwan Farook , is accused of illegally purchasing a pair of rifles that were used in the attack by Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik . He also is accused of the more serious offense of conspiring to provide material support to terrorism.Marquez made a brief appearance in U.S. District Court in Riverside following his arrest . He did not enter a plea. His court-appointed attorney, deputy federal public defender Young J. Kim, declined comment to a CNN producer outside court.The information laid out in a 36-page affidavit by an FBI agent who investigated Marquez offers a chilling alternative view of the young man who many saw as a quiet nerd who tinkered with cars and read comic books.JUST WATCHED Friend of San Bernardino killer arrested Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Friend of San Bernardino killer arrested 02:00The document describes a radicalization that took place under the noses of family, friends and neighbors, in which Farook allegedly transformed Marquez in a matter of years from a new convert to Islam to a would-be terrorist plotting a massacre at a community college and a "rush hour" pipe bomb and rifle attack on a Southern California freeway."Terrorist? Are you kidding me?" said Sharon Morgan, whose husband, Jerry, hired Marquez to check IDs at his bar, Morgan's Tavern.She described Marquez as a respectful, conscientious kid who loved oldies music, including "Close To You" by the Carpenters, which he would play on the jukebox.Outwardly innocent but, affidavit says, privately plottingMorgan, who was interviewed while Marquez was being questioned by the FBI but prior to charges being filed, said Marquez had come into the bar as a patron a couple of times and at one point got into a conversation with her husband. He ended up with the security job checking IDs at the front door on evenings when the bar offered live music.She described him as a "Dudley Do-Right" character who took his job very seriously.JUST WATCHED FBI director: Terror couple sent private jihad messages Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH FBI director: Terror couple sent private jihad messages 01:29She recalled walking up to him the first time he worked security and finding him with an uncomfortable look on his face. When she asked what was wrong, he said he needed to go to the bathroom."Well, go. You don't have to ask," she said she told him.Marquez replied: "I didn't want to leave my post unattended."According to the affidavit filed in federal court on Thursday, Marquez in late 2011 began buying guns, ammunition and tactical gear in preparation for an attack. He and Farook even trained at local firing ranges, the court document states.But during the next year, Marquez began to distance himself from Farook for various reasons, including some terrorism-related arrests that made headlines, the affidavit states.But he clearly continued to think about his past association with Farook as he posted on Facebook a month before the attacks."My life turned ridiculous," Marquez wrote, moments after writing that he was leading multiple lives."I think everyone leads multiple lives," someone replied.Marquez wrote of his life: "involved in terrorist plots, drugs, antisocial behavior, marriage, might go to prison for fraud, etc."Told 911 dispatcher he wanted to kill himselfLess than a month after that Facebook post, Farook and Malik opened fire at the Inland Regional Center, killing 14 people and wounding 22 with the AR-15 rifles Marquez allegedly bought for Farook.The following day, Marquez called 911.JUST WATCHED Poll: 77% believe U.S. can't stop lone wolf attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Poll: 77% believe U.S. can't stop lone wolf attack 03:25He told the operator he wanted to kill himself, the affidavit states.When the operator asked why, he said Farook was responsible for the San Bernardino attack"The [expletive] [expletive] used my gun," he said.That same day, Marquez said, he downed about nine bottle of beer and showed up the UCLA Harbor Medical Center emergency room, according to the affidavit. He was referred to the psychiatric ward and placed on an involuntary hold.In the wake of the attack, FBI agents spent days interviewing Marquez, though details about when and where those interviews took place are not made clear in the affidavit. The document says Marquez waived his right to an attorney during questioning, but a public defender has since been appointed to him.Didn't make a big impression in schoolAs news that Marquez was being questioned in connection with the attacks hit the media, a portrait of the young man began to emerge.His mother, who declined a formal interview with CNN, at one point told a group of reporters gathered in front of the family home that her son was "a good boy."She said she knew nothing of the FBI's interest in her son, whom she described as having been a normal teenager.Others who crossed paths with Marquez during his formative years said he left little impression, other than being quiet and alone.Several students who attended Alvord Continuation High School with Marquez in 2010 were able to identify his photo in the yearbook but could say little else about him."It was a very small school. Kids hung out in groups. Everybody had friends," said one former student who asked not to be named. "He was always alone."Teachers at the school had similar recollections:"I recognize him, but nothing really stands out," said retired teacher Christine Van Houten. "I don't even remember who he hung out with."A Walmart co-worker who was interviewed by FBI agents about Marquez following the attack said she told the agents she did not know Marquez well, didn't spend time with him outside of work, and had never heard him talk about Farook or guns or terrorism. In a brief interview with CNN, she offered a theory on his possible involvement:"He was weak-minded," said the employee, who asked not to be named, "maybe he got suckered into something."'The last person on earth I would suspect'Marquez seemed most memorable at Morgan's Tavern, the bar where he worked in Riverside, about 20 miles from the site of the massacre.Jerry Morgan said he thought Marquez felt a sense of belonging at the bar, even though no one knew him well.For example, Morgan said, no one knew Marquez was married to woman whose sister was married to Farook's brother -- a marriage federal authorities now allege was a sham intended to secure a green card for the Russian national.Photos: San Bernardino shooting Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police officers stand guard as they investigate a suspicious vehicle in Redlands, California, on Wednesday, December 2, after a mass shooting in nearby San Bernardino in which 14 people died and 21 were injured. The shooting took place at the Inland Regional Center, where employees with the county health department were attending a holiday event. The two shooters -- Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik -- were fatally shot in a gun battle with police hours after the initial incident. Farook worked for the county health department. Hide Caption 1 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A police officer places a marker along East San Bernardino Avenue, near where the shootout occurred. Hide Caption 2 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Law enforcement officers search a residential area for suspects who fled after the shooting. Hide Caption 3 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police search for the suspects in San Bernardino. Hide Caption 4 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting The residential area was not far from where the shooting occurred. Hide Caption 5 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Law enforcement officers search a neighborhood in San Bernardino. Hide Caption 6 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A police officer loads his weapon while pursuing suspects. Hide Caption 7 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A SWAT team mobilizes during the search. Hide Caption 8 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting People pray on the San Bernardino Golf Course, across the street from where the shooting took place. Hide Caption 9 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Heavily armed law enforcement officers swarmed the area where the shooting occurred. Hide Caption 10 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting People leave a community center after reuniting with friends and family in the aftermath of the shootings. Hide Caption 11 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A woman is comforted near the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 12 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A police helicopter hovers around the Inland Regional Center. Hide Caption 13 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Luis Gutierrez gets emotional as he talks about his wife who works in the facility and saw a gunman, according to Los Angeles Times photographer Marcus Yam. Hide Caption 14 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Two women speak with a firefighter at a triage area near the scene. Hide Caption 15 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police stand guard outside of the emergency room at the Loma Linda University Medical Center, where some of the victims were being treated. Hide Caption 16 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police escort civilians away from the site of the shooting. Hide Caption 17 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting People walk away from the scene. It is unclear how many people were at the facility at the time of the shooting. Hide Caption 18 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police in SWAT gear secure the area. Hide Caption 19 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Two women embrace at a community center where family members were gathering to pick up people from the scene. Hide Caption 20 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting People gather at the San Bernardino Golf Course. Hide Caption 21 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting People talk to police at the golf course. Hide Caption 22 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A woman is wheeled away on a stretcher. Hide Caption 23 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting People are moved away from the area by bus. Hide Caption 24 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police and fire personnel are seen near the site of the shooting. Hide Caption 25 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A crowd gathers behind the police line. Hide Caption 26 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Ambulances pull out of a staging area near the Inland Regional Center. Hide Caption 27 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A SWAT vehicle carries police officers. Hide Caption 28 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting SWAT teams and a bomb squad were working to clear the buildings where the shootings took place. Hide Caption 29 of 29Jerry Morgan said Marquez always came to the bar alone, whether as a patron or an employee."I never seen him with a girl," he said.He said he never heard Marquez talk about terrorism or jihad or anything that would indicate his involvement -- or even interest -- in either."He would be the last person on earth I would suspect," Jerry Morgan said days before charges were filed against Marquez. "If I would have had even of whiff of that I would have fired him and slapped him upside his head."Though Marquez worked a couple nights a month at the bar for years, Morgan said the relationship he had with him was superficial -- an arm's-length familiarity stemming from casual conversation."That's how everybody knew Enrique," Morgan said.