Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Debates, deliberations and Darth Vader. And enough legal drama to fill an entire season of Law & Order. It's Tuesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door :BOWE BERGDAHL: Which is worse - five years in Taliban captivity or the rest of your life in jail? Bowe Bergdahl might find out - if he's convicted of desertion. Yesterday, the U.S. Army decided he'll face a court-martial . Bergdahl was held by the Taliban after he disappeared from his base in Afghanistan in June 2009. Six U.S. troops died looking for him. He was later exchanged for five Taliban detainees. Some in the military consider him a deserter, and the Pentagon's caught some heat for the prisoner swapBILL COSBY: Let's see if we can sum this up concisely. Seven women accuse Bill Cosby of sexual assault. His reps call them liars. So they sue for defamation . Now, the disgraced comedian has countersued them, saying they were the ones who defamed him . He says their accusations damaged his reputation so much that plans for a new sitcom got canned. Yeah, but Bill, there's still the matter of 40+ other women who've accused you of the same thing. (He's denied those, and hasn't been charged.)FREDDIE GRAYUncharmed city: Will the jury find Baltimore cop William Porter guilty or innocent in Freddie Gray's death? : Will the jury find Baltimore cop William Porter guilty or innocent in Freddie Gray's death? The city's not waiting to find out . It erupted in riots after Gray died of a spinal cord injury in police custody in April. No one wants a repeat. The mayor and police commissioner have urged calm. An emergency operations center has been activated. All police leave have been canceled. Deliberations resume this morning.JUST WATCHED Officer explains why Freddie Gray wasn't in seat belt Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Officer explains why Freddie Gray wasn't in seat belt 01:55CAMPAIGN 2016Let's get ready to rumble ... or (in some cases) stumble: We know, we know. There seems to be a debate seemingly every other week. But the one tonight is your last chance to see all the Republican presidential hopefuls in one place this year. The Donald is : We know, we know. There seems to be a debate seemingly every other week. But the one tonight is your last chance to see all the Republican presidential hopefuls in one place this year. The Donald is riding even higher in national polls , but the Ted is surging in Iowa. And, for the umpteenth time, this may be Jeb!'s last chance to ... live up to that exclamation point. For your viewing pleasure, here's a handy primer on tonight's #GOPDebate.JUST WATCHED Trump: 'They're all coming after me' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: 'They're all coming after me' 01:27PETE ROSEEvery rose has its thorn: And for Pete Rose, it's MLB Commish Rob Manfred. He says Rose still hasn't taken full responsibility for betting on baseball back when he managed the Cincinnati Reds. And so, Charlie Hustle -- MLB's all-time hits leader -- : And for Pete Rose, it's MLB Commish Rob Manfred. He says Rose still hasn't taken full responsibility for betting on baseball back when he managed the Cincinnati Reds. And so, Charlie Hustle -- MLB's all-time hits leader -- still can't play ball . Rose will let his feelings known later today. The Donald already hasJUST WATCHED 2014: Pete Rose: Life in exile Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2014: Pete Rose: Life in exile 07:43BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day: "It's not going to be very interesting this year, honey. Sorry."The first lady, on what she's getting the President for Christmas. Namely, " workout stuff. " Hmm, what are you implying, Mrs. Obama?Mo' money, no problemsQuit yer whining, America. A new analysis finds the U.S. has surprisingly low taxes compared with other developed nations.Take a look at me nowIs this the face of Jesus Christ? One British researcher thinks soI'm freeeee, free fallingDarth braiderWhen you change your name to Darth Mykolaiovych Vader but lose the race for mayor of a Ukrainian town, you gotta occupy your time somehow.Luke, I'm (not gonna be) your fatherThere are now Star Wars condoms . [Insert your own joke here because the editor nixed ours].WHAT FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up later.The 'disappeared'Give peace a chanceA ceasefire goes into effect in Yemen today. Let's hope this one holds . Because who's benefiting from the security vacuum there? ISIS. Always ISIS.Number of the day: 34The number of Islamic nations that are part of a new Saudi-led coalition to kick some ISIS butt.AND FINALLY ...embedcodeWhen your dog has better moves than youThis mutt's really feeling Mark Mark and The Funky Bunch's "Good Vibrations."