Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Sanders gets sandbagged, a miracle for Mother Teresa, and a homework assignment shut down a school district. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door :BERNIE SANDERS: Last night, the Democratic National Committee went all Soup Nazi on the Bernie Sanders campaign and said, "No voter data for you!" Why? Because at least one campaign staffer couldn't resist a little look-see at what the Hillary camp was cooking when a software snafu in the DNC site left that info exposed . The Sanders' team fired the curious staffer. But now it finds itself suspended from the DNC voter database. That's huuuuge because campaigns use that treasure trove of info to plot strategy.'AFFLUENZA' TEEN: Where is Ethan Couch? He's the teen who killed four people while driving drunk, then claimed he should get a pass because he had "affluenza"? (noun: a made-up condition where you're not responsible for your actions because you're rich, and your mommy and daddy didn't set boundaries). Hey, it worked because he got probation. But it seems even that may have been too much because Couch has gone MIA. His mom too. Now, the sheriff and the feds are after him and they are maaadMARTIN SHKRELIMartin Shkreli is escorted by law enforcement agents Thursday in New York.STORAGE UNIT DEATHIt just gets worse: Finding two children dead, stuffed in bags in a California storage unit, is bad enough. Finding out how they lived proves to be even worse. An autopsy on the two kids -- a 3-year-old and her 6-year-old brother -- finds they died of " : Finding two children dead, stuffed in bags in a California storage unit, is bad enough. Finding out how they lived proves to be even worse. An autopsy on the two kids -- a 3-year-old and her 6-year-old brother -- finds they died of " ongoing physical abuse ." Two people have been charged with the deaths, but their relationship to the kids is still being hashed out. What started all this was the discovery of a battered and malnourished 9-year-old girl on the floor of an SUV.JUST WATCHED Police find bodies of two children in storage unit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police find bodies of two children in storage unit 00:47SAN BERNARDINO ATTACKUnholy alliances: The San Bernardino shooters can never be charged for their crimes. So : The San Bernardino shooters can never be charged for their crimes. So police nabbed the next best thing : friend and ex-neighbor Enrique Marquez. He's accused of plotting an attack on a community college and a busy freeway with Syed Rizwan Farook. But the two chickened out. Marquez swears he didn't know about the San Bernardino attack. But he did buy some of the guns and explosives Farook and his bride used. Oh, and the feds say Marquez was also in a sham marriage. ( Here are all the charges and whyJUST WATCHED Friend of San Bernardino killer arrested Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Friend of San Bernardino killer arrested 02:00... BUT THERE'S MOREBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day"It is always a great honor to be so nicely complimented by a man so highly respected within his own country and beyond"-- Donald Trump, returning the love to Russian President Vladimir Putin, who called him "an outstanding and talented personality" and " the absolute leader of the presidential race ."Belgian bungle: Things are just different in Belgium. A raid last month on a house related to one of the Paris terror attack suspects was delayed -- because Belgian law : Things are just different in Belgium. A raid last month on a house related to one of the Paris terror attack suspects was delayed -- because Belgian law forbids house searches during overnight hours . Yeah, really.You had one job!You know Lifelock? The company whose TV ads promise it'll keep its customers' personal info safe? Well, it's shelling out $100 million to settle charges it failed to keep its customers' personal info safe.Christmas bonuses? Ha!The Mike Huckabee campaign has slashed salaries for some senior staff members. It totally has nothing to do with him floundering in his White House bid, the campaign saysSo near, so farAND FINALLY ...And now the weather for Tatooine, Jakku and Hoth ...A British weather forecaster works in 12 "Star War" puns - TWELVE - during a routine update. And with such a straight face too.