(CNN) Perhaps no two mass shootings are identical. Each horrific massacre involves a litany of variables -- casualty tolls, the firearms used, the shooter's mental state, the venue for the slayings, et al -- but early details from this week's San Bernardino rampage indicate this was more aberrant than most.For one, it involved multiple shooters, and one of them, Tashfeen Malik, 27, was a woman, both of which are highly anomalous.That the other shooter, Syed Rizwan Farook, 28, was not only romantically involved with but was the husband of Malik, with whom he had a 6-month-old daughter, presents another example of how this mass shooting was far from typical, if any mass shooting can be deemed typical.Here is a look at why the San Bernardino killing spree was a rare event:Multiple shootersFarook and Malik were armed with handguns and long guns when they burst into a party hosted by the county health department and fatally shot 14 people, wounding at least 17 others.Mass shootings often produce initial reports of multiple gunmen, likely owing to the confusion and chaos that immediately follow gunfire. The reality, though, at least in the United States, is that mass killings rarely involve multiple shooters.Photos: San Bernardino shooting Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police officers stand guard as they investigate a suspicious vehicle in Redlands, California, on Wednesday, December 2, after a mass shooting in nearby San Bernardino in which 14 people died and 21 were injured. The shooting took place at the Inland Regional Center, where employees with the county health department were attending a holiday event. The two shooters -- Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik -- were fatally shot in a gun battle with police hours after the initial incident. Farook worked for the county health department. Hide Caption 1 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A police officer places a marker along East San Bernardino Avenue, near where the shootout occurred. Hide Caption 2 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Law enforcement officers search a residential area for suspects who fled after the shooting. Hide Caption 3 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police search for the suspects in San Bernardino. Hide Caption 4 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting The residential area was not far from where the shooting occurred. Hide Caption 5 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Law enforcement officers search a neighborhood in San Bernardino. Hide Caption 6 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A police officer loads his weapon while pursuing suspects. Hide Caption 7 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A SWAT team mobilizes during the search. Hide Caption 8 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting People pray on the San Bernardino Golf Course, across the street from where the shooting took place. Hide Caption 9 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Heavily armed law enforcement officers swarmed the area where the shooting occurred. Hide Caption 10 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting People leave a community center after reuniting with friends and family in the aftermath of the shootings. Hide Caption 11 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A woman is comforted near the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 12 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A police helicopter hovers around the Inland Regional Center. Hide Caption 13 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Luis Gutierrez gets emotional as he talks about his wife who works in the facility and saw a gunman, according to Los Angeles Times photographer Marcus Yam. Hide Caption 14 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Two women speak with a firefighter at a triage area near the scene. Hide Caption 15 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police stand guard outside of the emergency room at the Loma Linda University Medical Center, where some of the victims were being treated. Hide Caption 16 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police escort civilians away from the site of the shooting. Hide Caption 17 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting People walk away from the scene. It is unclear how many people were at the facility at the time of the shooting. Hide Caption 18 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police in SWAT gear secure the area. Hide Caption 19 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Two women embrace at a community center where family members were gathering to pick up people from the scene. Hide Caption 20 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting People gather at the San Bernardino Golf Course. Hide Caption 21 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting People talk to police at the golf course. Hide Caption 22 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A woman is wheeled away on a stretcher. Hide Caption 23 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting People are moved away from the area by bus. Hide Caption 24 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police and fire personnel are seen near the site of the shooting. Hide Caption 25 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A crowd gathers behind the police line. Hide Caption 26 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting Ambulances pull out of a staging area near the Inland Regional Center. Hide Caption 27 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting A SWAT vehicle carries police officers. Hide Caption 28 of 29 Photos: San Bernardino shooting SWAT teams and a bomb squad were working to clear the buildings where the shootings took place. Hide Caption 29 of 29Of the 28 deadliest shootings in U.S. history before Wednesday -- from Howard Unruh's 1949 rampage in Camden, New Jersey, to Christopher Sean Harper-Mercer's killing spree at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, in October -- only two have come at the hands of multiple shooters: the February 1983 killings at the Wah Mee gambling and social club in Seattle and the Columbine High School massacre in Littleton, Colorado, in 1999.In Seattle, Kwan Fai Mak, Benjamin Ng and Wai-Chiu "Tony" Ng robbed 14 patrons of the gambling parlor before shooting each of them in the head. Thirteen of the victims died; the other survived to testify against the shooters. In Columbine, teenagers Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold killed a dozen fellow students and one teacher before committing suicide in the school library.According to an FBI report on 160 "active shooter" incidents in the United States between 2000 and 2013, only two involved multiple shooters: an August 2011 shooting at a Queens, New York, house party in which two men wounded 11 people after an argument and an April 2012 string of drive-by shootings involving two men firing from their vehicles, killing three people, as they drove through Tulsa, Oklahoma.(Active shooter incidents are described as situations where police respond to a shooting in progress.)While mass shootings by lone gunmen are often premeditated, killings by multiple shooters can suggest a higher level of planning, law enforcement officials say.One shooter was femaleTo be clear, the FBI report does not include only mass shootings, so there were fewer than three deaths (three being the federal criteria for mass shooting designation) or no deaths in some of the 160 cases cited. Nonetheless, the report states, only six of the shootings involved gunwomen:-- On April 23, 2001, Cathline Repunte, 36, fatally shot one person at the Laidlaw Transit Services maintenance yard in San Jose, California.-- Jennifer San Marco visited her former place of employment, a postal distribution center in Goleta, California, and fatally shot six employees after killing a one-time neighbor on January 30, 2006. She then killed herself.-- Latina Williams opened fire in a classroom at Louisiana Technical College in Baton Rouge on February 8, 2008, killing two people and then herself.-- Amy Anderson began shooting at a biology department meeting at the University of Alabama in Huntsville in February 2010, killing three people.-- In Tarpon Springs, Florida, Arunya Rouch opened fire in a Publix parking lot, killing one person on March 30, 2010.-- Yvonne Hiller shot co-workers at a Kraft factory in Philadelphia on September 9, 2010, killing two people.Everytown for Gun Safety, a gun control advocacy group, analyzed 133 mass shootings (the group's criteria is that shooters killed four or more), using FBI and media reports. It found seven mass shootings in which a woman was involved.An examination of six of those seven incidents demonstrates that only one was a public mass shooting of the San Bernardino ilk, while the other five were more related to domestic violence (we'll get to that seventh example in just a moment):-- Cherie Lash Rhoades shot five people, killing four, at Cedarville Rancheria Tribal Community Council in Alturas, California, while the council was discussing her eviction in February 2014.-- In September 2013, Guadalupe Ronquillo-Ovalle killed her husband, her three children -- 4, 8 and 10 -- and then herself in Rice, Texas, the month after her husband pleaded no contest to assaulting her and was released from custody.-- Tonya Thomas killed her four minor children and then herself in Port St. John, Florida, in May 2012. The autopsy revealed she had been drinking heavily when she fired 18 hollow-point bullets, requiring her to reload her .38-caliber revolver three times.-- Sara McMeen killed her boyfriend, three children and herself in Ermington, Illinois, on December 16, 2011. Forty years earlier, her father had killed his wife with a shotgun.-- Mary Ann Holder had been having an affair with a married man for about three years when on November 20, 2011, she shot him with a .38-caliber handgun in Greensboro, North Carolina. The man was only injured, but her son, niece, nephew and one of their friends were not so lucky. She fatally shot them before picking her son up from a sleepover and delivering to him the same fate, then killed herself.JUST WATCHED Timeline for San Bernardino mass shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Timeline for San Bernardino mass shooting 01:05-- Susan Diane Hendricks killed her ex-husband, two sons, and their stepgrandmother in Liberty, South Carolina, in October 2011 and told police one of her sons had done the killing. Authorities later learned she had taken out a $700,000 life insurance policy on her family members, naming herself as beneficiary.Two examples that made neither the FBI nor the Everytown tally because they occurred before 2000 are Sylvia Seegrist, who fatally shot three people in a Springfield, Pennsylvania, shopping mall in 1985, and Brenda Spencer, a teenager who in 1979 opened fire on a San Diego, California, elementary school, killing the principal and a custodian.The shooters were romantically involvedDespite Hollywood's penchant for romantically linked killers such as the real-life Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow or the fictional Mickey Knox and Mallory Wilson, it's highly unusual for lovers to perpetrate mass shootings.That's not surprising considering how unusual it is for there to be multiple shooters in general.The seventh example from the aforementioned Everytown analysis occurred in Crab Orchard, Tennessee, in September 11, 2013, but unlike the other six incidents involving women, police said this was a drug-related robbery.Jacob Bennett and his girlfriend, Brittany Moser, are accused of killing a woman and three teens. Officials said the pair left the bodies in a parked car on the side of the road near Crossville.According to a report in the Crossville Chronicle last month, the pair face a slew of charges, including several counts of murder, and are expected back in court in February.They fled the sceneFarook and Malik went home after Wednesday's shooting, an odd occurrence in itself. The FBI statistics show that of the 160 active shooter scenes in its report, in only 29 did the shooter leave before police arrived. That's just over 18%.JUST WATCHED Police kill two suspects in San Bernardino shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police kill two suspects in San Bernardino shooting 02:20Police brought the San Bernardino incident to a close when several officers opened fire on the pair after a police chase.In 76 of the 160 cases, the shooter was arrested, subdued by civilians or killed.Authorities exchanged a tremendous amount of gunfire with Farook and Malik -- the pair fired an estimated 76 shots at officers, while 23 officers unleashed 380 rounds in their attempts to subdue the shooters, according to police.According to the FBI report, of the 45 incidents in which police and assailants traded gunfire, four ended with the shooter dying at a location other than the scene. Twenty-one shooters died on the scene, nine were wounded and arrested, nine committed suicide and two surrendered.In 64 of the 160 instances, the shooter took her or his own life. While 10 did so somewhere other than the scene of the crime, 54 killed themselves at the site of the slayings.