(CNN) Days after a Southern California couple shot 14 people to death, federal authorities are treating the massacre as an act of terrorism.But it's unclear what drove the couple to storm a holiday party in San Bernardino and spray the husband's coworkers with bullets.SWAT teams and a bomb squad were working to clear the buildings where the shootings took place.SWAT teams and a bomb squad were working to clear the buildings where the shootings took place.Ambulances pull out of a staging area near the Inland Regional Center.Ambulances pull out of a staging area near the Inland Regional Center.Police and fire personnel are seen near the site of the shooting.Police and fire personnel are seen near the site of the shooting.People are moved away from the area by bus.People are moved away from the area by bus.People talk to police at the golf course.People talk to police at the golf course.Two women embrace at a community center where family members were gathering to pick up people from the scene.Two women embrace at a community center where family members were gathering to pick up people from the scene.People walk away from the scene. It is unclear how many people were at the facility at the time of the shooting.People walk away from the scene. It is unclear how many people were at the facility at the time of the shooting.Police escort civilians away from the site of the shooting.Police escort civilians away from the site of the shooting.Police stand guard outside of the emergency room at the Loma Linda University Medical Center, where some of the victims were being treated.Police stand guard outside of the emergency room at the Loma Linda University Medical Center, where some of the victims were being treated.Two women speak with a firefighter at a triage area near the scene.Two women speak with a firefighter at a triage area near the scene.Luis Gutierrez gets emotional as he talks about his wife who works in the facility and saw a gunman, according to Los Angeles Times photographer Marcus Yam.Luis Gutierrez gets emotional as he talks about his wife who works in the facility and saw a gunman, according to Los Angeles Times photographer Marcus Yam.A woman is comforted near the scene of the shooting.A woman is comforted near the scene of the shooting.People leave a community center after reuniting with friends and family in the aftermath of the shootings.People leave a community center after reuniting with friends and family in the aftermath of the shootings.People pray on the San Bernardino Golf Course, across the street from where the shooting took place.People pray on the San Bernardino Golf Course, across the street from where the shooting took place.The residential area was not far from where the shooting occurred.The residential area was not far from where the shooting occurred.Law enforcement officers search a residential area for suspects who fled after the shooting.Law enforcement officers search a residential area for suspects who fled after the shooting.A police officer places a marker along East San Bernardino Avenue, near where the shootout occurred.A police officer places a marker along East San Bernardino Avenue, near where the shootout occurred.Police officers stand guard as they investigate a suspicious vehicle in Redlands, California, on Wednesday, December 2, after a mass shooting in nearby San Bernardino in which 14 people died and 21 were injured. The shooting took place at the Inland Regional Center, where employees with the county health department were attending a holiday event. The two shooters -- Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik -- were fatally shot in a gun battle with police hours after the initial incident. Farook worked for the county health department.Police officers stand guard as they investigate a suspicious vehicle in Redlands, California, on Wednesday, December 2, after a mass shooting in nearby San Bernardino in which 14 people died and 21 were injured. The shooting took place at the Inland Regional Center, where employees with the county health department were attending a holiday event. The two shooters -- Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik -- were fatally shot in a gun battle with police hours after the initial incident. Farook worked for the county health department.As more details come in about the attackers, so do the questions.Here's what we know -- and don't know -- about the massacre:Was it a terror attack?Shortly after the attacks, officials shied away from implying the massacre had any links to terror.But the narrative changed Friday, when the FBI took over the investigation from San Bernardino authorities. The agency said it was treating the attack as an "act of terrorism."There was "evidence ... of extreme planning" of the killings, said David Bowdich, an assistant FBI director.And while the mass shooting may have been inspired by ISIS, a law enforcement official said, there's no indication the terror group directed or ordered the attack."This is looking more and more like self-radicalization," a law enforcement official said on condition of anonymity.The couple did not have any trouble with the law, nor were they on any list of potentially radicalized people.Relatives had no idea that the couple held radical views, according to family lawyers.Was a religious dispute to blame?Authorities have said in addition to terrorism, workplace disputes could be a possible motive. Or a combination of the two could have fueled the attack.Syed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen MalikWith every suggested motive are lingering questions.If the attack was a result of workplace dispute, why did the killers have weapons in the home they lived in with their 6-month-old baby?Shortly after the massacre, authorities said they searched their house and found pipe bombs, thousands of rounds of ammunition and more guns.If it was terrorism, why did they choose to massacre his coworkers? Why did they pick a mundane, low-profile building that has no symbolic or historical significance?Has ISIS claimed responsibility?No.But for a group quick to claim credit and thump its chest after high-profile attacks, it was notable that ISIS did not say the couple were members or that it was responsible.When claiming responsibility for other terrorist attacks, ISIS normally hails attackers as "knights" or "soldiers." This time, it stuck to "supporters," using its official radio station to say it hopes God will "accept them as martyrs."Photos: Terror attacks on U.S. soil Photos: Terror attacks on U.S. soil Terror attacks on U.S. soil – A pair of bombs went off near the finish line of the packed Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013, leaving three people dead. More than 200 people were wounded. One suspect, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, has been charged with 30 federal counts related to the attacks. His brother, Tamerlan, was killed during pursuit by police. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Terror attacks on U.S. soil In this handout photo provided by the U.S. Army, police take cover as Nidal Hasan opens fire in Fort Hood, Texas, on November 5, 2009. The Army psychiatrist was convicted of killing 13 people. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Terror attacks on U.S. soil A man stands near the rubble, asking if anyone needs help, after the collapse of one of the World Trade Center towers on September 11, 2011. In what was the worst terrorist attack in U.S. history, 2,753 people were killed when two hijacked planes were intentionally crashed in the north and south towers of the New York buildings. Two other planes were also hijacked: One crashed into the Pentagon in Washington, and one crashed at a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Terror attacks on U.S. soil Atlanta was the excited and elated host of the 1996 Summer Olympics when a bomb went off at Centennial Olympic Park on July 27. Two people were killed and 111 were injured by the blast. Eric Rudolph was convicted of placing the 40-pound bomb, which was filled with nails and screws. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Terror attacks on U.S. soil The north side of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City shows the devastation caused by a fuel-and-fertilizer truck bomb on April 19, 1995. At the time, it was the worst terror attack on U.S. soil, killing 168 people. Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols were convicted of the attack. Both were former U.S. Army soldiers associated with the militant Patriot Movement. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Terror attacks on U.S. soil A police photographer helps document the bombing of the underground parking garage at the World Trade Center. That bombing killed six people on February 26, 1993. Six suspects were convicted of participating in the bombing. The seventh suspect, Abdul Rahman Yasin, is still at large. Ramzi Yousef directed the organization and execution of the bombing. He said he did it to avenge the sufferings Palestinian people had endured at the hands of U.S.-aided Israel. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Terror attacks on U.S. soil Three people were killed and 23 others were wounded after a string of mail bombings carried out by Ted Kaczynski, aka "The Unabomber," from 1978 to 1995. Here, FBI agents guard the entrance to Kaczynski's property in Lincoln, Montana, on April 5, 1996. In May 1998, Kaczynski received eight life sentences for his crimes. Hide Caption 7 of 7"What they're calling these two are supporters, which is kind of a lesser level," indicating it might not have had direct contact with the couple, said Rick Francona, a CNN military analyst and a former intelligence officer.That said, the group has made general, vague calls urging sympathizers to carry out attacks on their own.Did the two have ties to ISIS?Sort of.Female shooter Tashfeen Malik made a public declaration of loyalty to ISIS while the attack was underway. Three U.S. officials familiar with the investigation said she posted to Facebook a pledge of allegiance to ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.Facebook said it took the post down because it violated community standards that prohibit the promotion of terrorism or the glorification of violence. It declined to go into details about the nature of the post.While the couple's motivation for the attack is a key focus for investigators, the terror group's acknowledgment of them as supporters doesn't mean they were members or that someone from the group ordered it, Francona said.Officials briefing President Barack Obama about the investigation told him they had "no indication that the killers were part of an organized group or a broader terrorist cell," the White House said.Did they travel to the Middle East?Yes.Farook was born in Illinois to Pakistani parents and raised in California. He made two trips to Saudi Arabia.The first visit was in 2013 for the Hajj, the annual pilgrimage to Mecca that Muslims are required to make at least once in their lifetimes.The second time, he went to marry Malik, whom he'd met through an online dating service, family attorney Mohammad Abuershaid said.The FBI said he went to Pakistan as well, but the family attorneys denied that.Malik , 29, was born and raised in Pakistan and moved to Saudi Arabia around age 20, the attorney said.She came to the United States on a fiancée visa and became a legal permanent resident.A federal official said Farook has "overseas communications and associations," but it's unclear how relevant they are to the shootings."We don't know yet what they mean," the official said.