(CNN) Two people who survived the San Bernardino, California, massacre said they dived under tables as soon as the shooting started."I think just instinct kicks in, adrenalin kicks in," Trudy Raymundo said on "Anderson Cooper 360.""I was under the table with some of the staff and we just kind of held on to each other."Raymundo is director of the San Bernardino County Public Health Department. She and Corwin Porter, the assistant director, planned to speak to the department employees at a Wednesday holiday party about the year's accomplishments and the upcoming year's goals.SWAT teams and a bomb squad were working to clear the buildings where the shootings took place.SWAT teams and a bomb squad were working to clear the buildings where the shootings took place.Police and fire personnel are seen near the site of the shooting.Police and fire personnel are seen near the site of the shooting.People are moved away from the area by bus.People are moved away from the area by bus.Two women embrace at a community center where family members were gathering to pick up people from the scene.Two women embrace at a community center where family members were gathering to pick up people from the scene.People walk away from the scene. It is unclear how many people were at the facility at the time of the shooting.People walk away from the scene. It is unclear how many people were at the facility at the time of the shooting.Police escort civilians away from the site of the shooting.Police escort civilians away from the site of the shooting.Police stand guard outside of the emergency room at the Loma Linda University Medical Center, where some of the victims were being treated.Police stand guard outside of the emergency room at the Loma Linda University Medical Center, where some of the victims were being treated.Two women speak with a firefighter at a triage area near the scene.Two women speak with a firefighter at a triage area near the scene.Luis Gutierrez gets emotional as he talks about his wife who works in the facility and saw a gunman, according to Los Angeles Times photographer Marcus Yam.Luis Gutierrez gets emotional as he talks about his wife who works in the facility and saw a gunman, according to Los Angeles Times photographer Marcus Yam.A woman is comforted near the scene of the shooting.A woman is comforted near the scene of the shooting.People leave a community center after reuniting with friends and family in the aftermath of the shootings.People leave a community center after reuniting with friends and family in the aftermath of the shootings.People pray on the San Bernardino Golf Course, across the street from where the shooting took place.People pray on the San Bernardino Golf Course, across the street from where the shooting took place.The residential area was not far from where the shooting occurred.The residential area was not far from where the shooting occurred.Police officers stand guard as they investigate a suspicious vehicle in Redlands, California, on Wednesday, December 2, after a mass shooting in nearby San Bernardino in which 14 people died and 21 were injured. The shooting took place at the Inland Regional Center, where employees with the county health department were attending a holiday event. The two shooters -- Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik -- were fatally shot in a gun battle with police hours after the initial incident. Farook worked for the county health department.Police officers stand guard as they investigate a suspicious vehicle in Redlands, California, on Wednesday, December 2, after a mass shooting in nearby San Bernardino in which 14 people died and 21 were injured. The shooting took place at the Inland Regional Center, where employees with the county health department were attending a holiday event. The two shooters -- Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik -- were fatally shot in a gun battle with police hours after the initial incident. Farook worked for the county health department.Raymundo said she was in the back of the conference room at Inland Regional Center at about 11 a.m. when the violence started. About 300 people were there."I was at the table getting coffee and checking out the goodies that were sitting there and it was that point in time, you know, when we all heard gunfire right outside the door and all turned to look at the door to watch him come in," she said.People throughout the room went diving under tables set up for the holiday meal, Raymundo said. Police said Farook and Malik fired 65 to 75 rounds."It seemed like it was forever," Raymundo said. "And all I could think of was, 'Why doesn't he stop? Why does he keep shooting?'"The attackers fled in a black SUV. Several hours later, police killed them in a shootout.The couple killed 14 people and wounded 21 at the holiday party, almost all of them health department employees under Raymundo's supervision.Raymundo and Porter said they didn't hear Farook say anything as he shot and didn't hear him arguing with anybody before the shooting started.Police had earlier said an altercation might have sparked the shooting but on Friday played down that possibility, saying most witnesses said they didn't hear an argument.Farook's co-workers in environmental health had given him a baby shower about six months earlier, when his daughter was born.Raymundo said the health department will recover from this tragedy."You know, we're certainly thankful for the outpouring of support from everyone, but I need folks to know, we are strong," she said. "We are strong. We will get through this. We are together. We are a family. We will get through all of this together."