Story highlights Colin Kaepernick flexes and kisses his bicep when he scores a touchdownThe celebratory move of the San Francisco 49ers quarterback is known as KaepernickingHis bicep tattoos are Bible verses; he runs the 40-yard dash in about 4.5 secondsIn fourth grade, Kaepernick predicted he'd be a quarterback for the 49ers or PackersColin Kaepernick is trying not to get caught up in the national story that he has become -- one that landed on the cover of Sports Illustrated this week, and one that'll just keeping growing if he leads the San Francisco 49ers to the Super Bowl with a win in Atlanta on Sunday.Still, he can't help but allow himself a few glimpses into the hysteria. They usually come while sitting at the computer, looking through photos of strangers replicating his touchdown celebration, flexing his arm and kissing his bicep, in unusual places."I saw a girl Kaepernicking while she was riding a horse," he said at a news conference this week in San Francisco.Yes, it is a word now -- Kaepernicking -- just like the phenomena surrounding another quarterback unafraid to run with the football. But unlike Tim Tebow, whose celebration of kneeling in the end zone in prayer became known as "Tebowing," there are plenty of reasons to think Kaepernick will have staying power in the NFL.He will start just his ninth career game against the Falcons on Sunday, with the NFC Championship on the line. But already, teams have struggled to defend against his speed as a runner and his improving accuracy as a passer. Kaepernick rushed for 181 yards, a playoff record for a quarterback, and threw with 263 and two touchdowns in a playoff win against Green Bay last week.Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Rob Ninkovich of the New England Patriots, No. 50, celebrates with Niko Koutouvides after making an interception against the Houston Texans during the 2013 AFC divisional playoff game at Gillette Stadium in Foxboro, Massachusetts, on Sunday, January 13. The Patriots defeated the Texans 41-28. Hide Caption 1 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Arian Foster of the Houston Texans stretches for a first down against the Patriots on Sunday. Hide Caption 2 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Aaron Hernandez of the New England Patriots reacts after a catch in the third quarter of the playoff game against the Texans. Hide Caption 3 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Jerod Mayo of the New England Patriots knocks the ball away from Owen Daniels of the Houston Texans after it was ruled his forward progress was stopped. Hide Caption 4 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Patriots quarterback Tom Brady hands the ball off to Stevan Ridley. Hide Caption 5 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Danieal Manning of the Houston Texans runs the ball against the New England Patriots on Sunday. Hide Caption 6 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Dont'a Hightower of the New England Patriots tackles DeVier Posey of the Houston Texans. Hide Caption 7 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Stevan Ridley of the New England Patriots, left, celebrates with Shane Vereen after scoring a touchdown in the third quarter against the Houston Texans. Hide Caption 8 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Aaron Hernandez of the New England Patriots runs the ball against Danieal Manning of the Houston Texans. Hide Caption 9 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Patriots quarterback Tom Brady makes an adjustment during Sunday's game against the Houston Texans. Hide Caption 10 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – No. 38 Danieal Manning and No. 29 Glover Quin of the Houston Texans try to bring down Stevan Ridley of the New England Patriots. Hide Caption 11 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Matt Schaub of the Houston Texans hands the ball off to Arian Foster. Hide Caption 12 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Arian Foster of the Texans celebrates after scoring a touchdown in the second quarter against the Patriots on Sunday. Hide Caption 13 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Tom Brady of the Patriots passes against the Texans on Sunday. Hide Caption 14 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Texans players J.J. Watt, left, and Brooks Reed sack Patriots quarterback Tom Brady on Sunday. Hide Caption 15 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Chandler Jones of the Patriots tackels Arian Foster of the Texans on Sunday. Hide Caption 16 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Aaron Hernandez of the Patriots fails to make a catch in the end zone against the Texans on Sunday. Hide Caption 17 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Shane Vereen of the Patriots celebrates with teammate Michael Hoomanawanui after scoring a touchdown in the first quarter against the Texans on Sunday. Hide Caption 18 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Matt Schaub of the Texans drops back against the Patriots on Sunday. Hide Caption 19 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Wes Welker of the Patriots runs with the ball against the Texans on Sunday. Hide Caption 20 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Tom Brady of the Patriots hands the ball off to Stevan Ridley on Sunday. Hide Caption 21 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Wes Welker of the Patriots catches a pass in the second quarter against Kareem Jackson of the Texans on Sunday. Hide Caption 22 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Matt Schaub of the Texans walks off the field after failing to convert on third down against the Patriots on Sunday. Hide Caption 23 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Danieal Manning of the Texans returns the opening kickoff for 94 yards against Devin McCourty of the Patriots on Sunday. Hide Caption 24 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Matt Bryant of the Atlanta Falcons kicks the game-winning field goal in the fourth quarter against the Seattle Seahawks during the NFC divisional playoff Game at Georgia Dome on Sunday, January 13, in Atlanta. Hide Caption 25 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – The Falcons celebrate their 30 to 28 win over the Seahawks on Sunday. Hide Caption 26 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Matt Ryan of the Falcons celebrates their win over the Seahawks on Sunday. Hide Caption 27 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Cliff Matthews of the Falcons tackles Marshawn Lynch of the Seahawks on Sunday. Hide Caption 28 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Zach Miller of the Seahawks celebrates his fourth quarter touchdown reception against the Falcons on Sunday. Hide Caption 29 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Russell Wilson of the Seahawks runs the ball in for a fourth quarter touchdown against the Falcons on Sunday. Hide Caption 30 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Earl Thomas of the Seahawks intercepts a pass intended for Roddy White of the Falcons in the fourth quarter on Sunday. Hide Caption 31 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Golden Tate of the Seahawks catches the ball against No. 23 Dunta Robinson and No. 28 Thomas DeCoud of the Falcons in the second quarter on Sunday. Hide Caption 32 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Matt Ryan and Jason Snelling of the Falcons celebrate a touchdown against the Seahawks on Sunday. Hide Caption 33 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Julio Jones of the Atlanta Falcons is tackled by No. 50 K.J. Wright and No. 25 Richard Sherman of the Seahawks in the third quarter on Sunday. Hide Caption 34 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Golden Tate of the Seahawks runs a reception in for a third quarter touchdown against Thomas DeCoud of the Falcons on Sunday. Hide Caption 35 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Jason Snelling of the Falcons celebrates his third quarter touchdown against the Seahawks on Sunday. Hide Caption 36 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Richard Sherman of the Seahawks breaks up a pass intended for Roddy White of the Falcons on Sunday. Hide Caption 37 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Akeem Dent and Stephen Nicholas of the Falcons tackle Marshawn Lynch of the Seahawks in the first quarter on Sunday. Hide Caption 38 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Quarterback Matt Ryan of the Falcons throws a pass against the Seahawks on Sunday. Hide Caption 39 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Quarterback Russell Wilson of the Seahawks tries to avoid the Falcons' Jacquizz Rodgers in the first quarter Sunday. Hide Caption 40 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Jacquizz Rodgers of the Falcons runs the ball against the Seahawks in the first quarter on Sunday. Hide Caption 41 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Falcons receiver Julio Jones tries to avoid the tackle of Earl Thomas of the Seahawks on Sunday. Hide Caption 42 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Jacquizz Rodgers of the Falcons breaks the tackle of Seattle's Red Bryant and gets past Earl Thomas on Sunday. Hide Caption 43 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson looks to pass against the Falcons in the first quarter on Sunday. Hide Caption 44 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Michael Turner of the Falcons tries to avoid the tackle of K.J. Wright of the Seahawks in the first quarter on Sunday. Hide Caption 45 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Falcons tight end Tony Gonzalez catches a first-quarter touchdown pass over Kam Chancellor of the Seahawks on Sunday. Hide Caption 46 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Russell Wilson hands the ball off to Marshawn Lynch of the Seahawks in the second quarter against the Falcons on Sunday. Hide Caption 47 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Running back Frank Gore of the San Francisco 49ers celebrates after scoring a touchdown in the fourth quarter against the Green Bay Packers during an NFC Divisional Playoff game at Candlestick Park in San Francisco on Saturday, January 12. Hide Caption 48 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Wide receiver Michael Crabtree of the 49ers catches a touchdown pass thrown by quarterback Colin Kaepernick against cornerback Sam Shields of the Packers in the second quarter on Saturday. Hide Caption 49 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Quarterback Colin Kaepernick of the 49ers hands the ball to running back Frank Gore against the Packers. Hide Caption 50 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Crabtree catches a touchdown pass thrown by Kaepernick against the Packers in the second quarter. Hide Caption 51 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Tight end Vernon Davis celebrates with Crabtree of after scoring a touchdown for the 49ers in the second quarter. Hide Caption 52 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Wide receiver James Jones of the Packers celebrates after scoring a touchdown on a pass from quarterback Aaron Rodgers in the second quarter against the 49ers. Hide Caption 53 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Wide receiver James Jones of the Packers catches a touchdown pass thrown by Rodgers in the second quarter against the 49ers on Saturday. Hide Caption 54 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Running back DuJuan Harris of the Packers runs the ball inside linebacker Patrick Willis of the 49ers on Saturday. Hide Caption 55 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Quarterback Colin Kaepernick of the 49ers runs the ball against nose tackle B.J. Raji of the Packers on Saturday. Hide Caption 56 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Quarterback Colin Kaepernick of the 49ers celebrates with a teammate after running in a touchdown in the first quarter against the Packers on Saturday. Hide Caption 57 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Head coach Jim Harbaugh of the 49ers celebrates a field goal at the end of the second quarter against the Packers on Saturday. Hide Caption 58 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Running back DuJuan Harris of the Packers scores a touchdown against the 49ers in the second quarter on Saturday. Hide Caption 59 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Cornerback Sam Shields of the Packers runs the ball back for touchdown after an interception against quarterback Colin Kaepernick of the 49ers in the first quarter of Saturday's playoff game. Hide Caption 60 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Justin Tucker kicks a 47-yard field goal in the second overtime to give the Baltimore Ravens a 38-35 victory over the Denver Broncos in an AFC Divisional Playoff game at Sports Authority Field at Mile High in Denver on Saturday. Hide Caption 61 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Ray Rice celebrates with some of the Ravens fans in Denver after Saturday's win. Hide Caption 62 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Denver head coach John Fox grimaces during Saturday's AFC Divisional Playoff game. Hide Caption 63 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Ray Rice of the Ravens scores a 1-yard rushing touchdown in the third quarter. Hide Caption 64 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Ravens receiver Torrey Smith can't make the catch on a pass as he is wrapped up Denver's Champ Bailey. Hide Caption 65 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Eric Decker of the Broncos is tackled after making a reception in the second quarter against Ed Reed and Corey Graham of the Ravens. Hide Caption 66 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Denver's Eric Decker runs for yardage after the catch against Baltimore's Chykie Brown. Hide Caption 67 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Ravens linebacker Ray Lewis congratulates Torrey Smith after his 32-yard touchdown catch in the second quarter. Hide Caption 68 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Torrey Smith celebrates after a touchdown. Hide Caption 69 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Knowshon Moreno of the Broncos makes catch for a touchdown in the second quarter against the Ravens' Dannell Ellerbe. Hide Caption 70 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Denver's Trindon Holliday runs past Baltimore punter Sam Koch on a 90-yard touchdown return in the first quarter. Hide Caption 71 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Baltimore quarterback Joe Flacco throws a pass in the first quarter. Hide Caption 72 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Denver's Steven Johnson gestures to the sky after a play. Hide Caption 73 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Baltimore cornerback Corey Graham intercepts a pass on his way to a 39-yard touchdown in the first quarter. Hide Caption 74 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Denver quarterback Peyton Manning takes the field during player introductions on Saturday. Hide Caption 75 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Torrey Smith of the Ravens catches a pass for a 59-yard touchdown in the first quarter against Champ Bailey of the Broncos on Saturday. Hide Caption 76 of 77 Photos: Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs Photos: NFL Divisional Playoffs – Brandon Stokley of the Broncos hauls in a pass for a first-quarter touchdown on Saturday. Hide Caption 77 of 77Here are seven reasons why you'll be hearing plenty about No. 7 on the 49ers, in this season and beyond:1. The tattoos. Might as well start here, because if you've seen a 49ers game in the second half of the season, you had to notice that Kaepernick (pronounced KAP-er-nick) has plenty of them.They were at the center of a media firestorm in December when a columnist for AOL/Sporting News wrote, "NFL quarterback is the ultimate position of influence and responsibility. He is the CEO of a high-profile organization, and you don't want your CEO to look like he just got paroled."His family was outraged. "Are you categorizing this kid on something like tattoos?" his mother, Teresa, told USA Today. Kaepernick had a 4.0 GPA in high school and is active in charities.As for the tattoos? The ones on his biceps are Bible verses, and the words across his chest say, "Against All Odds." Besides: Tattoos are hardly viewed negatively, especially among young people.2. He can run. The tattoos might make people notice Kaepernick, but his playing style makes it impossible to stop watching him.Of the four quarterbacks still alive in the NFL playoffs, he is unique. Tom Brady (New England), Joe Flacco (Baltimore) and Matt Ryan (Atlanta) are all classic drop-back passers who run as a last resort.Kaepernick runs the 40-yard dash in about 4.5 seconds, which is exceptionally good for a quarterback. He doesn't want to be known as a "running quarterback," a tag that has dogged several two-dimensional quarterbacks to come before him."When I got into high school, college, I watched Vince Young, Michael Vick a lot, (Donovan) McNabb, watched the old clips of (Randall) Cunningham," Kaepernick said. "They were all quarterbacks that were mobile and could make plays."The key is not complicated: "Run where they're not. You want to run away from where the defensive players are. When they get close, get down."3. He can throw. Defenses would be unwise to dismiss Kaepernick as a passer. He has completed 62.4% of his throws this season for 1,814 yards, with 10 touchdowns and -- maybe most important for a team with a stellar defense -- just three interceptions.Plus, there's a maturity in his game. His coach, former NFL quarterback Jim Harbaugh, is impressed with his ability to shake off bad plays."As a quarterback and you throw an interception in a game, there's just a tendency the next time to double check things," Harbaugh said. "You're double checking, then double checking. And that's not the way to do it. So you want him to be trusting what he sees and cut it loose. And I think he's shown a rare ability to not do that, to not have to double check."4. He has the perfect coach. Kaepernick would still be another mostly anonymous backup if Harbaugh hadn't made one of the gutsiest decisions of the NFL season.Harbaugh replaced Alex Smith, who had played well during the season and led the team to the brink of the Super Bowl in 2011, with the untested second-year pro. It wasn't just a leap of faith. In the eight quarters that preceded a concussion injury, Smith had completed 32 of 35 passes for 385 yards with five touchdowns.Think about that: He had more touchdowns than incomplete passes. Still, Harbaugh is a former quarterback who saw another dimension in Kaepernick, and one who will be able to build an offensive system around his strengths.5. He's on a team on the rise. Good quarterbacks make their teams better, of course. But the opposite is true. Kaepernick wasn't stepping into a desperate situation when he took charge in San Francisco.He was taking over a contender. San Francisco, which lost to the Giants in the NFC championship game a year ago on a late field goal, has one of the best running backs in the game in Frank Gore (1,214 yards) and the second stingiest defense (allowing 17.1 points a game).He also has an elite young target in receiver Michael Crabtree, who caught 85 passes for 1,105 yards and nine touchdowns. Kaepernick's play is a major reason the 49ers are four-point favorites on the road, even though Atlanta rarely loses in the Georgia Dome.6. The letter. Everyone likes a good backstory. Kaepernick has a terrific one. He was born in Milwaukee in 1987 and adopted by his parents, Rick and Teresa, who had lost two infants to a congenital heart disease.The family moved to California when Colin was 4, and quickly his talent as an athlete became clear. The kid noticed, too. He wrote a letter to himself as a fourth grader not only predicting that he'd be a quarterback in the NFL, but also that he'd play for the 49ers or the Packers.Here he is.7. Kaepernicking. Hey, it certainly doesn't hurt, in this era, to be trending on social media.The San Francisco Chronicle asked readers to send photos of them Kaepernicking, and did they ever respond. In front of a frozen waterfall. On the top of a mountain. At Disneyland. On top of a motor home.As far as letting the hype get to him, Kaepernick said the new fame hadn't changed anything. "I go home. I watch my film. I watch anything on TV but sports, and I go to bed and come back and do it the same way the next day."If he wins his next game, he'll wake up as a Super Bowl quarterback. And an even bigger story.