Photos: Photos: Blast of Arctic air Blast of Arctic air – A pedestrian bundled up against the cold walks through the streets of Manhattan on Friday, January 24, in New York City. Polar air settled in over the northeastern U.S. Wednesday, with temperatures in the teens and 20s. Forecasters warned that "bitterly cold conditions" were expected across much of the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic and Mideast through this weekend. Hide Caption 1 of 14Photos: Photos: Blast of Arctic air Blast of Arctic air – A surfer store with guys in swimwear seems an especially cruel sight for these bundled-up New Yorkers on Tuesday, January 22, as frigid temps hit the region. Hide Caption 2 of 14Photos: Photos: Blast of Arctic air Blast of Arctic air – A lone pedestrian braves the winter chill on a Manhattan street on Thursday, January 24. Hide Caption 3 of 14Photos: Photos: Blast of Arctic air Blast of Arctic air – Much of the Northeast is experiencing colder than usual temperatures, but the weather doesn't deter this woman on Wednesday, January 23, in New York. Hide Caption 4 of 14Photos: Photos: Blast of Arctic air Blast of Arctic air – Ice covers firefighter Michael De Jesus while he mans a water cannon at the scene of a warehouse fire in Chicago on January 24. Hide Caption 5 of 14Photos: Photos: Blast of Arctic air Blast of Arctic air – No, it's not a scene from the latest remake of "Anna Karenina," just a woman trying to ward off the cold in New York on January 22. Hide Caption 6 of 14Photos: Photos: Blast of Arctic air Blast of Arctic air – A man keeps bundled up as he waits to cross the street in New York on January 23. Hide Caption 7 of 14Photos: Photos: Blast of Arctic air Blast of Arctic air – A woman pulls on her gloves on January 23 in New York. Hide Caption 8 of 14Photos: Photos: Blast of Arctic air Blast of Arctic air – Firefighters battle a warehouse fire in Chicago on January 24. Hide Caption 9 of 14Photos: Photos: Blast of Arctic air Blast of Arctic air – A woman hails a taxi on Lexington Avenue on Manhattan's Upper East Side on January 24. Hide Caption 10 of 14Photos: Photos: Blast of Arctic air Blast of Arctic air – A woman keeps covered up as steam rises from the street on January 23 in New York. Hide Caption 11 of 14Photos: Photos: Blast of Arctic air Blast of Arctic air – The U.S. Capitol in Washington is blanketed with snow on January 24. The same brutal Arctic cold front that's delivered subzero temperatures across the upper Midwest and Northeast is forecast to bring ice and freezing rain to the South and Mid-Atlantic states. Hide Caption 12 of 14Photos: Photos: Blast of Arctic air Blast of Arctic air – A man walks past a steam vent on Madison Avenue in Manhattan in the early morning of January 24. Hide Caption 13 of 14