Story highlights Sandusky's attorneys filed a motion for a new trialThe judge has not yet ruled on the motionSandusky, 68, was convicted on 45 counts of sexually abusing 10 boys over 15 yearsIf the motion fails, defense lawyers may appeal the caseLawyers for former Penn State assistant coach Jerry Sandusky , who was convicted on multiple counts of child sex abuse, argued a motion for a new trial Thursday.Judge John Cleland, who presided over Sandusky's conviction and sentencing, heard arguments Thursday at Centre County court in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, but did not rule immediately. A motion for a new trial asks the trial court to re-examine issues it already ruled on in an earlier judgment.In October, Cleland sentenced Sandusky to no less than 30 years and no more than 60 years in prison for abusing 10 boys during a 15-year period. Sandusky, 68, had faced the possibility of up to a 400-year prison term.Sandusky's lawyers have argued that there was insufficient evidence to convict him, and that the court didn't allow them enough time to prepare for trial after the prosecution flooded them with documentation.Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Former Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky leaves the Centre County Courthouse in handcuffs after a jury found him guilty in his sex abuse trial on Friday, June 22. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky is escorted in handuffs to a police car at the Centre County Courthouse under the glare of TV lights. The jury found Sandusky guilty on 45 of 48 counts. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Defense attorney Joe Amendola talks to the media after the trial. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Dottie Sandusky, who has been married to Sandusky for 46 years, walks with her husband while jurors deliberate. She testified that she did not witness any sexual abuse. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Matt Sandusky, one of Jerry Sandusky's six adopted children, said Thursday through his attorney that he also was sexually abused and was prepared to testify. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Shadows of the media are seen outside the courthouse during the second day of deliberations. Jurors took 21 hours over two days to convict Sandusky on 45 of 48 charges against him. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky's attorney Joe Amendola arrives at the courthouse Friday. After the conviction, Amendola announced plans to appeal despite the mountain of convictions against his client. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Judge John Cleland walks into the courthouse. Once the jury reached its decision, he revoked Sandusky's bail and ordered his arrest. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Prosecutor Joseph E. McGettigan III, second from left, and the rest of his prosecution team arrive at the courthouse Friday. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – A crowd gathers outside the Centre County Courthouse in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, to await the Sandusky verdict. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky faces the cameras as he is led to a sheriff's vehicle in handcuffs after the reading of the verdict. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky is put into a police car. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky was booked into the Centre County Correctional Facility. Hide Caption 13 of 13Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – The podium stand outside of Jerry Sandusky's trial on its first day is covered in mics, hinting at the massive media coverage of the event. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Several news vans pile up outside of the Sandusky trial. The network satellite vans are all parked in front of the Centre County Courthouse and the vans parked in back are live trucks from the regional news outlets. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Every day Sandusky arrived in the passenger seat of his attorney Joe Amendola's black BMW SUV. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – This sign posted on a road near the town of Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, shows support for former Penn State head football coach Joe Paterno. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Mic cords abound as the media took over the courthouse lawn to cover the Jerry Sandusky trial. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – The grave of Joe Paterno is at Spring Creek Presbyterian Cemetery in State College, Pennsylvania. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Reporters wait with microphones outside of the Sandusky trial. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Several photographers and videographers staked out spots behind the police's green barriers in the back of the courthouse where Sandusky's trial was taking place. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Live vans from regional news outlets fill the lot behind the Centre County Courthouse where the Sandusky trial is taking place. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Judge John M. Cleland is presiding over Sandusky's trial at the Centre County Courthouse in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – A business advertises Joe Paterno items within view of the courthouse where assistant coach Sandusky is on trial. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – The gate to the practice football field is locked at the Mildred and Louis Lasch Football Building at Penn State University in State College, Pennsylvania Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Photos: Sandusky trial coverage Sandusky trial coverage – Mics and cameras surround the podium ouside the courthouse where Jerry Sandusky is on trial. Hide Caption 13 of 13JUST WATCHED Pennsylvania sues NCAA over sanctions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pennsylvania sues NCAA over sanctions 04:06JUST WATCHED O'Brien: 'I'm not here to judge anyone' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH O'Brien: 'I'm not here to judge anyone' 02:22Defense attorney Joe Amendola testified Thursday that he had been unprepared for the trial. But he also conceded that after reviewing the documents post-trial, he didn't see anything he would have done differently in defending Sandusky.Sandusky's legal team has also argued that certain counts against their client were too broad and should therefore have been dismissed.Cleland could easily rule that evidence presented at the criminal trial was so overwhelming -- the victims' testimony, for instance -- that the defense's concerns would not have changed the end result, said Karl Rominger, one of Sandusky's lawyers.The eight victims who testified, now young men, said that they were boys when Sandusky forced them to engage in sexual acts with him. The acts occurred, they said, in showers in Penn State's athletic facilities; hotel rooms; and the basement of Sandusky's home, among other places.Testimony was often emotional and graphic. Jurors convicted Sandusky on 45 out of 48 sexual abuse counts.This first attempt to overturn the conviction based on ineffective counsel, a common tactic, will be tough, his lawyers acknowledged before the hearing.They said that if the court rejects it, they may launch appeals based on other arguments."If you win on one of the appeal issues, everything probably falls," Amendola has said. "All we have to do is convince an appellate court that one of the issues we will raise is worthy of a reversal."Amendola and Rominger have also filed a motion to have Sandusky's sentence reconsidered.The lawyers had attempted to withdraw from the case before the trial, telling Cleland the day before jury selection began that they did not feel adequately prepared and that it would be "unethical" for them to move forward. Cleland denied their request.The sex abuse scandal led to the firing of head football coach Joe Paterno and the ouster of the university's longtime president, Graham Spanier. Paterno died in 2012 of lung cancer.