Story highlights Baltimore's John Harbaugh says he admires his brother Jim, the 49ers' coachThe two will be the first brothers to face off, as coaches, for a major U.S. sports championshipSan Francisco rallies from a big deficit to beat Atlanta 28-24 in the NFC Championship gameBaltimore shuts out New England in the second half , winning 28-13 to reach the Super BowlOne Harbaugh will win Super Bowl XLVII. Another will lose it.That much is guaranteed after the San Francisco 49ers, coached by Jim Harbaugh, and the Baltimore Ravens, led by his brother John Harbaugh, beat their respective foes in conference championship games Sunday. Those wins mean the Harbaughs will be the first siblings to face off as head coaches in the NFL's title contest and, in fact, for any major U.S. professional sports championship.Both teams rallied from halftime deficits on the road to earn berths in the Super Bowl, which will be played February 3 in New Orleans.Baltimore did it by reeling off 21 straight points to overcome Tom Brady and the New England Patriots. It was sweet revenge for the Ravens, who lost last year's nail-biter AFC Championship to the same Patriots foe on the same Gillette Stadium field in Foxborough, Massachusetts.A few hours earlier, the 49ers rallied from a 17-0 hole to defeat the Atlanta Falcons, who had posted the best regular season record in the NFC.Photos: Photos: AFC Championship Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Anquan Boldin of the Baltimore Ravens celebrates with his teammates after scoring his second touchdown in the fourth quarter against the New England Patriots during the AFC Championship game at Gillette Stadium in Foxboro, Massachusetts, on Sunday, January 20. Hide Caption 1 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Anquan Boldin of the Ravens scores a touchdown against the Patriots. Hide Caption 2 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Patriots quarterback Tom Brady lays on the ground after getting knocked down in the fourth quarter. Hide Caption 3 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Tom Brady of the Patriots sits on the ground after getting knocked down in the game against the Ravens. Hide Caption 4 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Anquan Boldin of the Baltimore Ravens, left, celebrates with teammate Jacoby Jones after scoring a touchdown. Hide Caption 5 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Ravens wide receiver Anquan Boldin scores a touchdown against Devin McCourty of the Patriots. Hide Caption 6 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Wes Welker of the New England Patriots reacts after a play during the game against the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 7 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Dannell Ellerbe of the Baltimore Ravens celebrates with his teammates after intercepting a pass by Patriots quarterback Tom Brady. Hide Caption 8 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – A New England Patriots fan reacts to a play during the AFC Championship game. Hide Caption 9 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Dannell Ellerbe of the Baltimore Ravens intercepts a pass by Patriots quarterback Tom Brady. Hide Caption 10 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Dennis Pitta of the Baltimore Ravens fails to catch a pass in the end zone against Dont'a Hightower of the New England Patriots during the AFC Championship game at Gillette Stadium in Foxboro, Massachusetts, on Sunday, January 20. Hide Caption 11 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Brandon Spikes of the New England Patriots tackles Ray Rice of the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 12 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Dennis Pitta of the Baltimore Ravens catches a touchdown pass in the third quarter. Hide Caption 13 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Jerod Mayo of the Patriots tackles Bernard Pierce of the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 14 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Patriots quarterback Tom Brady looks to throw in Sunday night's game against the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 15 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Wes Welker of the New England Patriots runs the ball after making a catch against the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 16 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Aaron Hernandez of the Patriots gets tackled by Ray Lewis of the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 17 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Ed Reed of the Baltimore Ravens celebrates after a play against the New England Patriots. Hide Caption 18 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Wes Welker of the Patriots runs with the ball against the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 19 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Wes Welker of the New England Patriots is tackled by Bernard Pollard and Corey Graham of the Baltimore Ravens after catching a pass. Hide Caption 20 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Marquice Cole of the New England Patriots celebrates with his teammates after a play against the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 21 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Ray Rice of the Baltimore Ravens scores a touchdown in the second quarter against the New England Patriots during the AFC Championship game at Gillette Stadium in Foxboro, Massachusetts, on Sunday, January 20. Hide Caption 22 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Brandon Lloyd of the New England Patriots misses a catch during Sunday's game against the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 23 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Patriots quarterback Tom Brady makes an adjustment at the line against the Ravens. Hide Caption 24 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – A Baltimore Ravens fan holds up a giant photo of linebacker Ray Lewis' face. Hide Caption 25 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Brandon Lloyd of the New England Patriots reacts after a play against the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 26 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Stevan Ridley of the Patriots runs the ball against the Ravens. Hide Caption 27 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Ravens quarterback Joe Flacco gets pressured by Justin Francis of the New England Patriots. Hide Caption 28 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Wes Welker of the New England Patriots misses a catch in the first half. Hide Caption 29 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – From left, Brandon Lloyd, Tom Brady, Danny Woodhead, Sebastian Vollmer and Deion Branch of the New England Patriots look on during the game against the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 30 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Bernard Pierce of the Ravens attempts to break a tackle by Kyle Arrington of the Patriots. Hide Caption 31 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Brandon Lloyd of the New England Patriots catches a pass over Ed Reed of the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 32 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Ravens quarterback Joe Flacco hands the ball off to Ray Rice. Hide Caption 33 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Patriots quarterback Tom Brady gets pressured by Haloti Ngata of the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 34 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Aaron Hernandez of the New England Patriots misses a catch against the Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 35 of 36 Photos: Photos: AFC Championship AFC Championship – Ray Rice of the Ravens runs the ball against Devin McCourty of the Patriots. Hide Caption 36 of 36Photos: Photos: NFC Championship Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – From left, Anthony Dixon, Darcel McBath and Perrish Cox of the San Francisco 49ers celebrate after stopping the Atlanta Falcons on fourth down in the fourth quarter of the NFC Championship Game. The 49ers defeated the Falcons 28-24 at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta on Sunday, January 20. Hide Caption 1 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Tarell Brown of the San Francisco 49ers breaks up a pass intended for Julio Jones of the Atlanta Falcons. Hide Caption 2 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Michael Crabtree of the San Francisco 49ers celebrates after catching a 33-yard pass in the fourth quarter. Hide Caption 3 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan receives the ball at the 1 yard line in the fourth quarter. Hide Caption 4 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Dunta Robinson of the Falcons forces Michael Crabtree of the 49ers to fumble. Hide Caption 5 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Michael Crabtree of the San Francisco 49ers fumbles the football against the Atlanta Falcons. The ball was recovered by No. 54 Stephen Nicholas of the Falcons on the Atlanta 1 yard line. Hide Caption 6 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Jason Snelling of the Atlanta Falcons flies in the air over Dashon Goldson of the San Francisco 49ers. Hide Caption 7 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Randy Moss of the 49ers carries the ball in the third quarter against the Falcons. Hide Caption 8 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan fumbles the ball. It was recovered by No. 99 Aldon Smith of the San Francisco 49ers. Hide Caption 9 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Frank Gore of the San Francisco 49ers scores a five-yard rushing touchdown in the third quarter. Hide Caption 10 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Kicker David Akers of the San Francisco 49ers looks on after missing a 38-yard field goal as William Moore of the Atlanta Falcons cheers. Hide Caption 11 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Falcons tight end Tony Gonzalez makes a catch against Chris Culliver of the 49ers. Hide Caption 12 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Quarterback Colin Kaepernick of the San Francisco 49ers is tackled by Stephen Nicholas, left, and Kroy Biermann of the Atlanta Falcons. Hide Caption 13 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Falcons wide receiver Julio Jones makes a catch in the second quarter. Hide Caption 14 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Michael Turner of the Atlanta Falcons runs the ball against the San Francisco 49ers. Hide Caption 15 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan holds onto the ball as he is tackled by Isaac Sopoaga of the San Francisco 49ers. Hide Caption 16 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Tony Gonzalez of the Atlanta Falcons catches a 10-yard touchdown against the San Francisco 49ers on Sunday. Hide Caption 17 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Falcons fans cheer during Sunday's game against the 49ers. Hide Caption 18 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – LaMichael James of the San Francisco 49ers scores a 15-yard rushing touchdown in the second quarter. Hide Caption 19 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Running back LaMichael James of the 49ers celebrates his touchdown against the Falcons. Hide Caption 20 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan, center, talks to his team in a huddle during the first half against the 49ers. Hide Caption 21 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Julio Jones, left, and Roddy White of the Atlanta Falcons jump in the air to celebrate after Jones caught a 20-yard touchdown in the second quarter. Hide Caption 22 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Matt Ryan of the Atlanta Falcons throws the ball in the Sunday's game against the San Francisco 49ers. Hide Caption 23 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Julio Jones of the Atlanta Falcons catches a 20-yard touchdown against Tarell Brown of the San Francisco 49ers. Hide Caption 24 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – LaMichael James of the San Francisco 49ers leaps over Falcons defenders during a kick return in the first half. Hide Caption 25 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Michael Crabtree of the 49ers is unable to come down in bounds in the end zone. Hide Caption 26 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Falcons tight end Tony Gonzalez runs the ball against the No. 38 Dashon Goldson of the 49ers. Hide Caption 27 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – San Francisco quarterback Colin Kaepernick yells out during Sunday's game against the Atlanta Falcons. Hide Caption 28 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Michael Crabtree of the 49ers makes a catch in the first half against the Falcons. Hide Caption 29 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Michael Turner of the Atlanta Falcons carries the ball as he is hit by No. 52 Patrick Willis of the San Francisco 49ers on Sunday. Hide Caption 30 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick passes the ball in the first quarter against the Atlanta Falcons. Hide Caption 31 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Roddy White of the Atlanta Falcons catches a pass as he is hit by Dashon Goldson of the San Francisco 49ers. Hide Caption 32 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Dashon Goldson of the 49ers hits Falcons receiver Roddy White on Sunday. Hide Caption 33 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Julio Jones of the Atlanta Falcons catches a 46-yard touchdown in the first quarter against the San Francisco 49ers. Hide Caption 34 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan calls out from under center while taking on the San Francisco 49ers. Hide Caption 35 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – Frank Gore of the San Francisco 49ers runs the ball in the first quarter. Hide Caption 36 of 37 Photos: Photos: NFC Championship NFC Championship – The Atlanta Falcons are introduced before taking on the San Francisco 49ers. Sunday marked the first time Atlanta hosted the NFC Championship Game. Hide Caption 37 of 37John Harbaugh joked to reporters, after the Ravens' win, that he and his brothers had a "few dreams" -- one of which may have been meeting up in the Super Bowl -- as well "as a few fights ... just like all brothers.""We'll let the two teams duke it out, as much as possible," John Harbaugh said, smiling.The Baltimore coach then made a point to talk about how proud he was of his brother Jim, as well as how much he admired the San Francisco team."I'd like to think that when you look at (the) two teams, you're looking at mirror images," John Harbaugh said, referring to the Super Bowl foes. "It's going to be a great football game."Baltimore's dominant second half leads to winBeyond their recent playoff history, Baltimore and New England matched up earlier this season -- one in which the Ravens came back from a late 9-point deficit, winning on a last-second field goal by Justin Tucker.Still, victory Sunday evening was hardly guaranteed.New England had the superior regular record, not to mention a storied playoff pedigree having played in five Super Bowls in the past 11 years. They also had Brady, who last Sunday passed Joe Montana as the quarterback with the most playoff wins ever.And the Patriots started out strong, jumping to a 3-0 lead and -- after a Baltimore score -- entering halftime up 13-7.But the second half was all Baltimore. The Ravens scored touchdowns on their first three possessions, two of them on Joe Flacco touchdown passes to receiver Anquan Boldin.Meanwhile, the vaunted Patriots offense sputtered, hurt especially by a Stevan Ridley fumble and two Brady interceptions. Baltimore ended up winning 28-13."We came here last year and left with a bitter taste in our mouths," Baltimore's Boldin told reporters after the game. "We felt like this team took something away from us. And we wanted to come back and make that right."49ers rally, hold on for 28-24 victoryLed by quarterbacks Montana and Steve Young, San Francisco was one of the NFL's top franchises through much of the 1980s and 1990s.But the 49ers haven't been in the Super Bowl in 1995, and their 2000s were marred by mostly losing regular seasons.The team's fortunes, however, have turned since the 2011 hiring of Jim Harbaugh, a former NFL quarterback himself who'd been coaching at nearby Stanford. The next season, they made it to the NFC Championship, only to fall to the eventual Super Bowl winners, the New York Giants.On Sunday, trailing by three scores midway through the second quarter, San Francisco rallied for two quick touchdowns -- one on a LaMichael James 11-yard run, the other on a four-yard reception by tight end Vernon Davis.Still, Atlanta maintained its slim advantage -- in part thanks to a missed field goal and a fumble by the 49ers Michael Crabtree just inches from the end zone -- into the fourth quarter. But then, running back Frank Gore scored from nine yards out to put San Francisco ahead 28-24.At this point, there were still just over eight minutes left in the game.Atlanta -- paced by quarterback Matt Ryan, known as "Matty Ice" for his strong play in the waning minutes of games -- made a run. With just over a minute to go, the Falcons got within striking distance of the goal line. But San Francisco defenders broke up two straight passes, effectively sealing the win.After the game, San Francisco linebacker Patrick Willis said the 49ers prevailed because they refused to give up and stuck together as a team, just as they have all season long."One thing about our team all year long is that we continue to fight," Willis told Fox, which broadcast the game. "We have an unbelievable team."