– The latest round of books you'll be seeing in your kid's backpack and waiting for at the library was announced Monday. That is, the American Library Association named the winners of its annual youth media awards , including its oldest and best-known prizes, the Newbery and Caldecott medals.The Newbery Medal went to “The One and Only Ivan” by Katherine Applegate. It's a fictional story about Ivan, a real-life gorilla who lived for years in a cage in a circus-themed mall before moving to Zoo Atlanta in 1994.Stunned, humbled, thrilled. Love to you, @ ahedit—In its 75th years, the Caldecott Medal went to “This Is Not My Hat," written and illustrated by Jon Klassen . It's the story of a little fish who tries to get away with the hat of a much larger fish. Klassen also illustrated the Caldecott honor book, "Extra Yarn."um...—...YOU GUYS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!—"This Is Not My Hat" just won the Caldecott. And "Extra Yarn" just got a Caldecott Honor.—"Bomb: The Race to Build -- and Steal -- the World's Most Dangerous Weapon," by Steve Sheinkin and "Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe," by Benjamin Alire Sáenz, also received multiple honors from the library association on Monday. Katherine Paterson, author of "Bridge to Terabithia" and "Jacob Have I Loved," received the Laura Ingalls Wilder Award for "substantial and lasting" contributions to children's literature. Tamora Pierce, author of "The Song of the Lioness," won the Margaret A. Edwards Award for lifetime achievement in writing for young adults.The award announcements lit up Twitter as teachers and librarians streamed the awards announcement live, and classes watched to see how their mock Caldecott and Newbery votes held up.The awards are big business, too, meaning prominent placement for winners on bookstore and library displays.“Receiving a Caldecott Medal practically guarantees that the winning title will remain in print and on library and bookstore shelves for decades to come,” the library association posted on its website.Here’s a list of winners:John Newbery Medal for "most outstanding contribution to children's literature":"The One and Only Ivan," written by Katherine ApplegateHonor books"Splendors and Glooms," by Laura Amy Schlitz"Bomb: The Race to Build -- and Steal -- the World's Most Dangerous Weapon," by Steve Sheinkin"Three Times Lucky," by Sheila TurnageRandolph Caldecott Medal for the "most distinguished American picture book for children":"This Is Not My Hat," illustrated and written by Jon KlassenHonor books"Creepy Carrots!" illustrated by Peter Brown and written by Aaron Reynolds"Extra Yarn," illustrated by Jon Klassen and written by Mac Barnett"Green," illustrated and written by Laura Vaccaro Seeger"One Cool Friend," illustrated by David Small and written by Toni Buzzeo"Sleep Like a Tiger," illustrated by Pamela Zagarenski and written by Mary LogueCoretta Scott King awards for an African-American author and illustrator:Author award: "Hand in Hand: Ten Black Men Who Changed America," written by Andrea Davis Pinkney and illustrated by Brian PinkneyIllustrator award: "I, Too, Am America," illustrated by Bryan Collier with text by Langston HughesHonor booksAuthor: "Each Kindness," by Jacqueline Woodson and illustrated by E. B. LewisAuthor: "No Crystal Stair: A Documentary Novel of the Life and Work of Lewis Michaux, Harlem Bookseller," by Vaunda Micheaux Nelson and illustrated by R. Gregory ChristieIllustrator: "H. O. R. S. E.," illustrated and written by Christopher MyersIllustrator: "Ellen's Broom," illustrated by Daniel Minter and written by Kelly Starling LyonsIllustrator: "I Have a Dream: Martin Luther King, Jr.," illustrated by Kadir Nelson, with text by the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.Pura Belpré awards for a Latino writer and illustrator "whose children's books best portray, affirm and celebrate the Latino cultural experience":Illustrator: "Martin de Porres: The Rose in the Desert," illustrated by David Diaz and written by Gary D. SchmidtAuthor: "Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe," written by Benjamin Alire SáenzHonor bookAuthor: "The Revolution of Evelyn Serrano" by Sonia ManzanoStonewall Book Award, the Mike Morgan & Larry Romans Children's & Young Adult Literature Award for "books of exceptional merit relating to the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender experience":"Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe," written by Benjamin Alire SáenzHonor books"Drama," written and illustrated by Raina Telgemeier"Gone, Gone, Gone," written by Hannah Moskowitz"October Mourning: A Song for Matthew Shepard," written by Leslea Newman"Sparks: The Epic, Completely True Blue, (Almost) Holy Quest of Debbie," written by S. J. AdamsSchneider Family Book Award for "books that embody an artistic expression of the disability experience":For ages zero to 10: "Back to Front and Upside Down!" written and illustrated by Claire AlexanderFor ages 11 to 13: "A Dog Called Homeless," written by Sarah LeanFor ages 13 to 18: "Somebody, Please Tell Me Who I Am," written by Harry Mazer and Peter LerangisMichael L. Printz Award for "excellence in literature written for young adults":"In Darkness," written by Nick LakeHonor books"Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe," by Benjamin Alire Sáenz"Code Name Verity," by Elizabeth Wein"Dodger," by Terry Pratchett"The White Bicycle," by Beverley BrennaTheodor Seuss Geisel Award for beginning reader book:"Up, Tall and High!" written and illustrated by Ethan LongHonor books"Let's Go for a Drive!" written and illustrated by Mo Willems"Pete the Cat and His Four Groovy Buttons," by Eric Litwin, created and illustrated by James Dean"Rabbit & Robot: The Sleepover," written and illustrated by Cece BellWilliam C. Morris Award for "a debut book published by a first-time author writing for teens":"Seraphina," written by Rachel HartmanFinalists"Wonder Show," written by Hannah Barnaby"Love and Other Perishable Items," written by Laura Buzo"After the Snow," written by S. D. Crockett"The Miseducation of Cameron Post," written by emily m. danforthRobert F. Sibert Informational Book Award for informational books for children:"Bomb: The Race to Build -- and Steal -- the World's Most Dangerous Weapon," written by Steve SheinkinHonor books"Electric Ben: The Amazing Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin," written and illustrated by Robert Byrd"Moonbird: A Year on the Wind with the Great Survivor B95," written by Phillip M. Hoose"Titanic: Voices from the Disaster," written by Deborah HopkinsonYALSA Award for Excellence in Nonfiction for Young Adults:"Bomb: The Race to Build-and Steal-the World's Most Dangerous Weapon," written by Steve SheinkinFinalists"Steve Jobs: The Man Who Thought Different," written by Karen Blumenthal"Moonbird: A Year on the Wind with the Great Survivor B95," written by Phillip Hoose"Titanic: Voices from the Disaster," written by Deborah Hopkinson"We've Got a Job: The 1963 Birmingham Children's March," written by Cynthia LevinsonMildred L. Batchelder Award for a book published in a language other than English in a country other than the United States and subsequently translated into English for publication in the United States:"My Family for the War," originally published in Germany in 2007 as "Liverpool Street," written by Anne C. Voorhoeve, translated by Tammi Reichel.Honor books"A Game for Swallows: To Die, to Leave, to Return," written and illustrated by Zeina Abirached, translated by Edward Gauvin“Son of a Gun," written and translated by Anne de GraafOdyssey Award for audiobooks:"The Fault in Our Stars," produced by Brilliance Audio, written by John Green and narrated by Kate RuddHonor audiobooks"Artemis Fowl: The Last Guardian," produced by Listening Library, written by Eoin Colfer and narrated by Nathaniel Parker"Ghost Knight," produced by Listening Library, written by Cornelia Funke and narrated by Elliot Hill"Monstrous Beauty," produced by Macmillian Audio, written by Elizabeth Fama and narrated by Katherine KellgrenAndrew Carnegie Medal for children's video:Katja Torneman, producer of "Anna, Emma and the Condors"Alex Awards for 10 adult books that appeal to teens:"Caring is Creepy," by David Zimmerman"Girlchild," by Tupelo Hassman"Juvenile in Justice," by Richard Ross"Mr. Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore," by Robin Sloan"My Friend Dahmer," by Derf Backderf"One Shot at Forever," by Chris Ballard"Pure," by Julianna Baggott"The Round House," by Louise Erdrich"Tell the Wolves I'm Home," by Carol Rifka Brunt"Where'd You Go, Bernadette?" by Maria SempleWhat are the children's books you remember most? Share your favorites in the comments.