Colorado Springs, Colorado (CNN) What moved a man to kill three people and wound nine others at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado has not been disclosed. But the suspect accused of carrying out the shooting spree, Robert Lewis Dear, made remarks about "baby parts" to investigators after his surrender, a law enforcement official told CNN.Dear, 57, told them he has anti-abortion and anti-government views, but that doesn't mean those opinions were his motive for allegedly shooting up the Colorado Springs clinic on Friday, the official said. It's too early to tell, as investigators are still processing evidence.After a nearly six-hour bloody standoff that left three people dead and nine others wounded, the accused shooter dropped his gun when a SWAT team drove up in an armored police vehicle, a BearCat, and cornered him, the official said.Robert Dear is the suspect in the Planned Parenthood shootings.Law enforcement officers found propane tanks in the area of Dear's car in the parking lot and believe he was trying to shoot them to cause an explosion, the official said.'Crime against women'In the absence of an announced motive, public officials in Colorado and beyond are drawing their own conclusions about the attack.It was a "crime against women receiving health care services," said Attorney General Loretta Lynch. She pledged the full resources of her office to investigate."You can certainly infer what (the motive) may have been in terms of where it took place and the manner in which it took place," Colorado Springs Mayor John Suthers told CNN.Vicki Cowart, president of Planned Parenthood of the Rocky Mountains, went beyond an inference, saying the shooter "was motivated by opposition to safe and legal abortion."Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs A suspect is in custody on Friday, November 27, in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Police were in a shootout with a gunman inside a Planned Parenthood facility, hours after a shooter was first reported in the area. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs People in the building across from Planned Parenthood in Colorado Springs start to emerge from hiding. Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs A bus of evacuees make its way towards neighboring hospitals. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Colorado Springs Fire Department Chief Christopher Riley, center, takes questions from the media. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs An unidentified victim is transported to an ambulance. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs People are helped to safety. It was not immediately clear at the time of the attack whether Planned Parenthood was the target of the shooting. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs An officer waits at an intersection near the scene of a shooting. Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs A woman is escorted to an ambulance by police near the scene. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Police sit on the roof of a Chase Bank branch across the parking lot from the scene at Fillmore Street and Centennial Boulevard. Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Colorado Springs Police Lt. Catherine Buckley addresses the media during the incident. Eleven people have been transported to local hospitals, she said. Five are police officers from various responding agencies. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Colorado Springs rescue personnel stand ready near the scene. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs People are escorted to an ambulance during the standoff. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs A police officer stands guard. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Rescued people are escorted from the area by emergency personnel. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs The shooting, first reported around 11:30 a.m. (1:30 p.m. ET), left a nearby shopping center on lockdown as police searched for the gunman. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs An officer patrols the perimeter. Denise Speller, who works at a nearby salon, said she heard at least 10 gunshots go off and saw a police officer get hit. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs It was not immediately clear whether Planned Parenthood was the target of the shooting. Police said the original 911 call came from the building. Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Police officers respond to the scene. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: Shootout in Colorado Springs Colorado Springs police officers search the area near the scene. Hide Caption 19 of 19A hermit's shantyDear is being held without bail in a Colorado Springs jail, according to the El Paso County Sheriff's Office. He is due to appear in court Monday afternoon.Shown in police photos with dark hair and a fluffy white beard, the suspect appears to have lived a long time in rural solitude in the Carolinas, then more recently in Colorado. Over a decade ago, he had some run-ins with the law while living in South Carolina but was never convicted.Robert Dear lived in a cabin in North Carolina until about a year ago.In 1997, Dear's wife accused him of domestic assault, although no charges were pressed, according to records from the Colleton County Sheriff's Office in South Carolina.In 2002, Dear was charged with being a peeping Tom; those counts were dismissed.In 2003, he was arrested and charged with two counts of animal cruelty, but he was found not guilty in a bench trial.He later made his home in a hermit shanty in the mountains of North Carolina, CNN affiliate WLOS reported. It published a photo of a small, basic cabin in the woods of Buncombe County.The Sheriff's Office there knew Dear from a single civil citation issued in 2014 for allowing his dogs to run wild.Anti-Obama brochuresAbout a year ago, Dear chose the crossroads community of Hartsel, Colorado, as his home, according to public records. It is nestled in grassy plains and rolling foothills framed by Rocky Mountain ranges and is about an hour and 20 minutes' drive from Colorado Springs.Dear bought a spread -- 65 miles west of the Planned Parenthood clinic -- for $6,000.JUST WATCHED Victim describes facing down killer in Colorado Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Victim describes facing down killer in Colorado 02:18Zigmond Post, a neighbor, said Dear brought him some anti-Obama pamphlets once. "That's about all I've run into him," he said.It's safe to say that few people knew who Dear was until he walked out of the Colorado Springs Planned Parenthood after allegedly shooting 12 people and terrorizing many others.Scanners relay police plansConversations captured over the police scanner gave glimpses into the drama inside the clinic as well as the strategic debate about how to stop the suspect and get his hostages to safety at the same time.Joan Motolinia's sister was among those inside. She called him Friday afternoon, and he could hear the shooting in the background, he said."She couldn't say much because she was afraid," Motolinia said, tearing up as he recounted the call.Victims: Officer, veteran, motherOfficer Garrett Swasey died along with two civilian victims in the hail of bullets. He was an elder in his church and a former champion figure skater.JUST WATCHED Remembering officer Garrett Swasey Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remembering officer Garrett Swasey 02:25Swasey was a University of Colorado-Colorado Springs officer who rushed to the clinic to offer his assistance. "There was no way any of us could have kept him here," said UCCS Police Chief Brian McPike. "He was always willing to go. ... He had an enthusiasm that was hard to quell."The Melrose, Massachusetts, native "found his calling as a police officer," according to a statement from his family."Helping others brought him deep satisfaction and being a police officer was a part of him. In the end, his last act was for the safety and well-being of others and was a tribute to his life," it said.As of Sunday night, a fundraising page set up for Swasey's wife of 17 years, Rachel, and his two children -- Elijah, 10 and Faith, 6 -- had reached more than $87,000 of a stated goal of $100,000.Ke'Arre Stewart, 29, and Jennifer Markovsky, 35, were also killed in the shooting, officials said Sunday.Stewart was a U.S. Army veteran who'd served in Iraq, his sister, Temprest Lloyd, told CNN. He was the father of two daughters.Lloyd, who's spoken with police and the coroner about the shooting, said her brother called 911 during the attack and told others at Planned Parenthood to take cover."He was able to save a lot of lives and stop other people from possibly losing their lives, and I'm proud of him for that," she said.Stewart's wife told CNN affiliate KKTV that their family is seeking justice.Markovsky's father, John Ah-King, told KKTV that he was heartbroken."I couldn't believe it. I just messaged her Thursday to say Happy Thanksgiving," he told The Denver PostSister-in-law Julia Miller told the Post that Markovsky was a stay-at-home mom who was devoted to her two children."She's just a really sweet woman that would do anything for everyone," Miller said, according to the newspaper.Obama: 'Enough is enough'In a statement on Saturday, President Barack Obama offered praise for Swasey, condolences to the families of the victims and condemnation of the attack as another example of gun violence."This is not normal. We can't let it become normal," Obama said . "If we truly care about this -- if we're going to offer up our thoughts and prayers again, for God knows how many times, with a truly clean conscience -- then we have to do something about the easy accessibility of weapons of war on our streets to people who have no business wielding them."Period. Enough is enough."Planned Parenthood videosPlanned Parenthood has recently endured intense political and social opposition.Eight undercover videos released over the summer by anti-abortion activists have stirred caustic criticism against the reproductive health clinic. The controversy has reached the halls of Congress, where conservative politicians have demanded the group's defunding.Planned Parenthood has said the videos, which alleged illegal fetal organ sales, were heavily edited and inaccurate.At least three of the organization's buildings have been vandalized since September, not long after the last video appeared.