Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene On May 17, 2015, a fight broke out between two rival biker clubs in Waco, Texas. CNN has obtained video and images of the chaos during and after the brawl. This surveillance footage shows a biker running inside the Twin Peaks restaurant where the deadly fight took place. Authorities have classified both the Bandidos and the Cossacks as gangs. Hide Caption 1 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Hide Caption 2 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene By the time the melee was over, nine people were dead and 177 people were arrested. Hide Caption 3 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene The body of a biker is seen in the parking lot. (His tattoos have been obscured in this photo.) The biker club members who began beating, stabbing and shooting each other in a Texas Twin Peaks restaurant knew the police were outside, and they just didn't care, Waco police Sgt. W. Patrick Swanton told CNN at the time. Hide Caption 4 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A Bandidos vest and hat are left behind in a pool of blood. The Bandidos boast a membership of 2,000 to 2,500 across not just the United States, but also 13 other countries, the Department of Justice says. Hide Caption 5 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Law enforcement agents received information that a regular scheduled meeting of the United Coalition of Clubs was to be held at a Twin Peaks restaurant in Waco on May 17. Due to the known growing tension between the Bandidos and the Cossacks, the Waco Police Department coordinated a surveillance and intelligence-gathering operation for this meeting, according to documents from the Waco Police Department and the Texas Department of Public Safety. Hide Caption 6 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Another body lies next to a tipped-over bike. Police officers fired 12 rounds during the deadly shootout, according to the Waco Police Department, which said it had 16 uniformed officers in their vehicles at the time the suspects began shooting. Hide Caption 7 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene This violent encounter wasn't the first between the Cossacks and the Bandidos, according to a Waco PD investigator's sworn statement. Members of both motorcycle clubs had previous violent altercations throughout Texas in 2013 and 2015. Several of those involved were arrested at the Waco brawl. Hide Caption 8 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene According to a Waco PD investigator's sworn statement, Waco police witnessed the violence erupt that day "swiftly" and law enforcement officers on the scene were fired upon by "individuals involved in the violent altercation" until officers were able to control the scene. Hide Caption 9 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene According to witness statements given to Waco Police by a Twin Peaks patron: "Just as we had finished eating I heard 5, 6, or 7 shots from outside of the restaurant. Someone yelled hit the floor, there was constant shots being fired. It sounded like the gunfight at the OK Corral. " Hide Caption 10 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Weapons were found all over the scene, including this gun in the bathroom. Hide Caption 11 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene The Waco PD says about 480 weapons were found that day. Hide Caption 12 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Police also recovered an ax, bats, batons, brass knuckles, a chain, clubs, a hatchet, knives, a machete, pepper spray, a pipe, stun guns, tomahawks and weighted weapons. Hide Caption 13 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Police recovered many knives from the scene. Hide Caption 14 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Twelve long guns and 133 handguns were recovered. Hide Caption 15 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A gun is seen in the passenger seat of a car. Hide Caption 16 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Waco PD said that 44 shell casings were recovered from the scene and that 12 of those casings came from the .223-caliber rifles of three SWAT officers, who were in adjacent parking lots.Hide Caption 17 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene This is one of the many weapons recovered. Hide Caption 18 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A gun is inside a motorcycle saddlebag, along with prescription medicine and a water bottle. Hide Caption 19 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Hide Caption 20 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Tensions between the Cossacks and Bandidos had been on the rise for a while. Hide Caption 21 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene According to witness statements given to police, a Twin Peaks employee said that prior to the fight that led to the shooting, the Cossacks were attempting to keep their conversation private. "Every time a Twin Peaks girl would go outside they (Cossacks) would get extremely quiet and when we would go back inside they would continue to talk." Hide Caption 22 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene The fight broke out at the Twin Peaks restaurant and spilled into the parking lot. The weapons being used quickly escalated from hands and feet to guns. Hide Caption 23 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Weapons are piled up by a barrier in the parking lot. According to one of the first Waco police officers on the scene, it appeared that nearly everybody in the crowd had a gun. Hide Caption 24 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Sixteen uniformed Waco Police Department officers, including members of their SWAT team, witnessed and responded to the melee from the parking lots surrounding Twin Peaks. Police say they responded within 30 to 45 seconds and were fired at by bikers. Hide Caption 25 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Jewelry lies on the asphalt in the Twin Peaks parking lot. The label is derived from a quote that may be apocryphal but is part of biker lore that dates to the 1960s: Someone supposedly said that 99% of bikers are law-abiding citizens, leaving the mayhem to the other 1%. Hide Caption 26 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Seven of the nine bikers who were killed at Twin Peaks were members of the Cossacks. The Cossacks claim around 200 members, mostly in small towns in Texas. According to law enforcement officials, they are one of the biggest outlaw biker clubs in Texas. Hide Caption 27 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene This is one of the Bandidos patches from the thousands of evidence photos taken from Twin Peaks. The Bandidos are the biggest motorcycle clubs in Texas, with around 400 members. Hide Caption 28 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene An officer from the Waco Police Department discovered blood smeared across the Twin Peaks bathroom floor. Hide Caption 29 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene One of the 151 guns found by investigators was in the grass outside Twin Peaks after the fight. Police recovered a staggering 480 weapons from Twin Peaks: 151 guns, numerous knives, brass knuckles, chains, clubs, batons, hammers, tomahawks and a machete. Hide Caption 30 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A Cossacks jacket, along with knives and a gun, litter the grass outside Twin Peaks after the melee. There were 154 bikers indicted by a Waco grand jury, and they could face life in prison on charges of engaging in organized criminal activity. Hide Caption 31 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A bloody bandana lies on the sidewalk outside of Twin Peaks. Both clubs, the Bandidos and the Cossacks, say they're done fighting. Hide Caption 32 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A Waco police officer snapped this photo after he discovered blood spilling out onto the sink and floor in the Twin Peaks bathroom. Hide Caption 33 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene These are some of the bullets found on the scene by investigators. According to the Waco Police Department, 44 shell casings recovered from the Twin Peaks scene were fired by law enforcement weapons. Hide Caption 34 of 36Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A duffel bag is filled with patches of the Confederation Of Clubs & Coalition of Independent Riders. COCs are biker networks that exist in nearly every U.S. state and meet every couple of months or so to discuss motorcycle issues and legislation. A 1 p.m. COC meeting was scheduled to take place at Twin Peaks on May 17. Hide Caption 35 of 36