It's Thursday, and here are five things to know for your new day.ISIS OFFENSIVE: We watched in horror last year when ISIS rolled through the Iraqi town of Sinjar, slaughtering men and boys and selling the girls and women into slavery. Well, today, the Yazidis of Sinjar teamed up with their neighbors, the Kurds, and -- backed by coalition air support -- launched an offensive to reclaim their home. Sinjar is a big deal. It links Mosul - ISIS' prized possession -- with cities it holds in Syria. Win back Sinjar and you've divided the "caliphate" ISIS wants to establish across the region.COLLEGE PROTESTSWinter of discontent: Seems like the ouster of Mizzou president was the shot heard 'round campuses. Kick-out-the-prez fever has gripped New York's : Seems like the ouster of Mizzou president was the shot heard 'round campuses. Kick-out-the-prez fever has gripped New York's Ithaca College where students want Tom Rochon gone. He's trying to stave that off by creating a chief diversity officer gig. On tap for today? A #MillionStudentMarch. Organizers want to see students rally nationwide to demand free tuition, a $15 minimum wage and their student debts wiped clean.JUST WATCHED Ithaca College students staging walkout over racial remarks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ithaca College students staging walkout over racial remarks 01:23CAMPAIGN 2016The force is strong with this one: The ' : The ' deportation force ,' that is. Donald Trump says he'll use it to kick 11 million undocumented immigrants out of the U.S. He says it's all very fair and humane; they can even come back if they go about it the right way. His critics hope "deportation force" works out as well for Trump as "self-deportation" did for Mitt Romney.JUST WATCHED Trump promises 'deportation force' to remove 11 million Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump promises 'deportation force' to remove 11 million 02:11TASER DEATHStunned: A man dies in police custody. A family sues. An all-too-common headline these days. Only this time, it plays out in a graphic video. It shows cops repeatedly Tasing an uncooperative, handcuffed Linwood Lambert outside a hospital in South Boston, Virginia. A medical examiner says Lambert died of "acute cocaine intoxication." His family says it was excessive force. A hearing in the $25 million wrongful death case will take place today.JUST WATCHED Video shows police use stun gun on man Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video shows police use stun gun on man 02:41CHRISTMAS CONTROVERSYTempest in a coffee cup: How is this a thing - this misplaced : How is this a thing - this misplaced brew-haha ? Starbucks debuts a plain, red holiday cup; an Arizona pastor disses them as Jesus haters and Trump suggests a boycott. Dunkin' Donuts splashes the word "Joy" across its cups (like it's always done) and gets an attaboy. It's all very tiring and makes you long for the days when Christmas divided folks over one question: real tree or fake?