(CNN) Turkey says it shot down a plane ... Americans get a big travel warning ... and throngs of Muslims are happy to show Donald Trump their "Muslim IDs." It's Tuesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door :PARIS TERROR ATTACKSRUSSIAN WARPLANE SHOT DOWNWORLDWIDE TRAVEL ALERTYou've been warned: The U.S. State Department has issued The U.S. State Department has issued a travel alert for Americans going ... well, pretty much anywhere around the world . It says a bunch of terrorists -- namely, ISIS, al-Qaeda and Boko Haram -- "continue to plan terrorist attacks in multiple regions." That doesn't mean Americans should put away their passports -- but they should stay vigilant and avoid large crowds.JUST WATCHED U.S. State Department issues a worldwide travel alert Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH U.S. State Department issues a worldwide travel alert 02:02MINNEAPOLIS SHOOTINGSOn the loose: Police are looking for three guys Police are looking for three guys who opened fire near a police station where demonstrators were protesting the death of Jamar Clark. Five people were shot, but they're all expected to survive. Clark, a 24-year-old black man, was shot by police on November 15 as they tried to arrest him.JUST WATCHED Five shot near Jamar Clark protest in Minnesota. Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Five shot near Jamar Clark protest in Minnesota. 00:10'CLOCK BOY' FAMILY WANTS $15 MILLIONTick, tock: Remember Ahmed Mohamed, the Texas teen who brought a homemade clock to school -- Remember Ahmed Mohamed, the Texas teen who brought a homemade clock to school -- only to get arrested because the grown-ups thought he made a bomb ? Well, an attorney said his family wants an apology from the city and police -- oh, and also $15 million . The clock is ticking: Officials have been told they have 60 days to cough it up before the family sues.JUST WATCHED Ahmed Mohamed's family seeks $15 million, apologies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ahmed Mohamed's family seeks $15 million, apologies 01:26BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these stories. Read up. Join in.Muslim Marine's comeback to TrumpWhen Donald Trump suggested all Muslims in the U.S. should be registered, Tayyib M. Rashid said he's already got a special ID@MuslimMarine 's post was retweeted more than 33,000 times -- and prompted doctors, officers and other service members to tweet their #MuslimID cards to Trump.Bernie Sanders hangs out with a killer ...Brought this guy to Busy Bee on MLK in ATL. pic.twitter.com/K93EUniUZE — Killer Mike (@KillerMike) November 23, 2015WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up later:Bracing for turmoilThe city of Chicago has been fighting the release of a video reportedly showing a white police officer shooting a black teenager 16 times . But after a judge's ruling, that video could be released today. A Chicago Tribune columnist says the video "could tear Chicago apart."Hollande visits the U.S.Since Paris terror attacks, French President Francois Hollande has been on a mission to unite a grand coalition against ISIS . And today, he's visiting President Barack Obama to try to see what the allies can do in the fight against enemy No. 1.AND FINALLY ...