(CNN) New clues emerge from the Russian plane crash. Election Day is over. And Antarctica is gaining ice.It's Wednesday, and here are five things to know for your new day.PLANE CRASH: Four days after Metrojet Flight 9268 crashed and killed 224 people, a clear picture of what happened remains elusive, and there's a wide range of theories on the cause of the crash. The latest theory : a botched repair of the plane's tail section led to the tail being violently ripped apart from the rest of the plane in midair. The plane's tail was found some 3 miles away from the wreckage, and it showed no signs of burning from a fire. Another development: Victims' bodies are being categorized into the types of trauma suffered: injuries from the fall and injuries that align with an explosion -- such as metal pieces in bodies.Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt The militant group ISIS published this image of what it claims is the bomb that brought down Metrojet Flight 9268 on Saturday, October 31. The photograph shows a soft-drink can and two components that appear to be a detonator and a switch. Flight 9268 crashed in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula en route to the Russian city of St. Petersburg. All 224 people on board were killed. Hide Caption 1 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt The wreckage of Flight 9268 is seen in this image provided on Tuesday, November 3. Hide Caption 2 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt People visit a makeshift memorial at the airport in St. Petersburg on November 3. Hide Caption 3 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Trucks in St. Petersburg carry victims' bodies on Monday, November 2. Hide Caption 4 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Russian emergency personnel collect personal belongings of victims at the crash site in Hassana, Egypt, on November 2. Hide Caption 5 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Egyptian military personnel stand near the tail of the jet in Hassana on Sunday, November 1. Hide Caption 6 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt A piece of the engine sits on the ground at the crash site on November 1. Hide Caption 7 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Egyptian army soldiers guard the luggage and other belongings of passengers piled up at the site of the crash on November 1. Hide Caption 8 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Debris belonging to the Russian airliner is shown at the site of the crash on November 1. Hide Caption 9 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt More debris is shown on November 1. The crash site is in a remote area of a region plagued by a violent Islamic insurgency. Hide Caption 10 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Debris from the airliner is seen on November 1. Hide Caption 11 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Debris at the crash site on November 1. Hide Caption 12 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Candles, toys, flowers and portraits are left at Pulkovo International Airport outside St. Petersburg on November 1. Hide Caption 13 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt People place flowers and messages in front of the Russian Embassy in Cairo on November 1. Hide Caption 14 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Egyptian paramedics load the bodies of victims into a military plane at a military air base by the Suez Canal on Saturday, October 31. Hide Caption 15 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Egyptian Prime Minister Sherif Ismail, third from right, visits the site of the plane crash with military and government officials on October 31. Hide Caption 16 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Ismail, center, and other officials visit the site of the plane crash on October 31. Hide Caption 17 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt An item of clothing lies at the site where the plane crashed on October 31. Hide Caption 18 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt The tail of the jet sits in a field on October 31. Hide Caption 19 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Villagers watch an ambulance as it drives to unload bodies on October 31. Hide Caption 20 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt People light candles and leave flowers at the Russian Embassy in Kiev, Ukraine, on October 31. Hide Caption 21 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt A relative reacts to news at Pulkovo International Airport on October 31. Hide Caption 22 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Employees with the Russian Ministry for Emergency Situations wait in Moscow for their flight to Egypt on October 31. Hide Caption 23 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Journalists and spectators wait for ambulances to arrive at the Zeinhom morgue in Cairo on October 31. Hide Caption 24 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt An Egyptian soldier prays as emergency workers prepare to unload bodies of victims at a military airport north of Suez, Egypt, on October 31. Hide Caption 25 of 25ELECTION 2015Ballot breakdown: Kentucky has a new, Republican governor; Ohio rejects legalized pot; Houston takes down an LGBT law and Virginia still has a Republican state senate. Those are the Kentucky has a new, Republican governor; Ohio rejects legalized pot; Houston takes down an LGBT law and Virginia still has a Republican state senate. Those are the big results from last night's elections. Now let the probing, dissecting and spinning of the results -- and what they could mean for the 2016 presidential race -- begin.JUST WATCHED Matt Bevin wins Kentucky governorship Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Matt Bevin wins Kentucky governorship 01:37CAMPAIGN 2016Head-to-head: The presidential election is still a year away, but a The presidential election is still a year away, but a new poll suggest it'll be a close one. Hillary Clinton and Ben Carson are all tied up in a NBC/Wall Street Journal poll released yesterday. They're both at 47%, and Carson fares better against Clinton than any other GOP challenger. But of course this will all probably change over the next year.Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Dr. Ben CarsonANTARCTICAIcy increase: Antarctica is Antarctica is gaining ice . So global warming's over? Well, NASA's not going that far, but in a new study the space agency said the icy continent is gaining more ice than it's losing. Apparently the Antarctic Peninsula and West Antarctica are losing ice, but those losses are offset by ice gains in the eastern part of the continent and the interior. Scientists think increased snowfall, which started 10,000 years ago, is the reason for the ice gains.JUST WATCHED Is Antarctica gaining ice? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is Antarctica gaining ice? 01:47'STAR WARS'Force awakened: Support is building to let a terminally ill "Star Wars" fan see the latest movie before it comes out in December. That effort got big-time backing recently when two stars from the movie -- Mark Hamill and John Boyega -- retweeted the hashtag #ForceForDaniel, which is being used to gain the attention of "Star Wars" honchos at Disney. Daniel Fleetwood, 32, has a rare form of connective tissue cancer. Doctors told him in July he had just a couple of months to live.