(CNN) No debacles in last night's debate ... Europe's leaders try, try again on refugee crisis ... And it's a good day to be single (in China). It's Wednesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.CAMPAIGN 2016: If your drinking game involved taking a swig every time the candidates lobbied for more time or ignored the bell meant to cut off long answers, you must be nursing a pretty sick hangover this morning. Still, compared with the circus the CNBC spectale was two weeks ago, the fight night on Fox Business Network was a more organized affair with substantive questions. That's not to say the candidates didn't try to pull a few fast ones, such as The Donald "meeting" Vladimir Putin. But that's why we have the debate fact check team. You're welcome, America.MISSOURI TURMOILTense Tigers: As two Mizzou officials step down, the As two Mizzou officials step down, the tension steps up on campus. Racially charged threats against students exploded yesterday on social media, while campus police labored to knock down various rumors. They tried to be as plain as possible: there's no imminent danger to campus and no active threats. Meanwhile, a mass media professor caught on camera asking for "muscle" to keep reporters away from protesters -- yes, we recognize the irony -- apologized and resigned her special appointment with the School of Journalism. She's not out of a job though; she gets to keep her gig as assistant professor at the communication school.JUST WATCHED Media prof. asks for 'muscle' to block student journalist Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Media prof. asks for 'muscle' to block student journalist 04:02SINGLES' DAYDon't be my Valentine: All the single ladies (and fellas), rejoice. Today is your day, if you live in China. It's All the single ladies (and fellas), rejoice. Today is your day, if you live in China. It's Singles' Day , a kind of anti-Valentine's Day where single folks treat themselves. And all those shopping singles create a Black Friday-like atmosphere for Chinese retailers such as Alibaba. Last year the e-retailer made $9 billion on Singles' Day. Will it do that well this year? Well, Alibaba made $5 billion in the day's first 90 minutes, so um, yeah. And since almost all of this shopping is done online, China avoids the Black Friday in-store chaos we enjoy in the U.S. every holiday season. Looks like yuan is not a lonely number after all.JUST WATCHED China's 'Singles' Day' smashes sale records Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China's 'Singles' Day' smashes sale records 03:12REFUGEE CRISISContinental divide: Europe's got to get on the stick. Last week, the Europe's got to get on the stick. Last week, the European Commission predicted about three million refugees will drop anchor in the continent by 2017. The big problem with that: Europe's done a lousy job of relocating them. They've only done that for 147 out of 160,000 refugees over two years. Just like new math, those numbers don't work. Europe's leaders will meet about this today -- for the sixth time.Photos: Cold brings new misery for migrants Migrants waited in the rain at the Trnovec border crossing in Croatia on Monday. Amnesty International described the conditions there as "dire." Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Cold brings new misery for migrants Slovenian police helped some of the people who were stuck in cold and wet weather in Trnovec. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Cold brings new misery for migrants Restrictions on movements through the region have produced bottlenecks at Croatia's borders, including in Trnovec. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Cold brings new misery for migrants Problems also arose in the Serbian village of Berkasovo, at the border with Croatia, where hundreds of people were stuck on Monday. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Cold brings new misery for migrants People in Berkasovo were in a "desperate situation," a U.N. refugee agency official said Monday, describing the cold and wet weather as "horrible." Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Cold brings new misery for migrants Migrants resting in Trnovec on Monday. Amnesty International criticized governments in the region for allowing the crisis to develop. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Cold brings new misery for migrants Migrants in Berkasovo waiting to enter Croatia on Monday. "We have families, pregnant women, small babies, the elderly, three generations of families, an old woman in a wheel chair," said Melita Sunjic of the U.N. refugee agency. Hide Caption 7 of 7HAWAIIBug bites: Headed to paradise soon? Bring your swimsuit, your sunglasses, your surfboard ... and lots of mosquito repellant. Huh? Seems the Aloha State is suffering through a Headed to paradise soon? Bring your swimsuit, your sunglasses, your surfboard ... and lots of mosquito repellant. Huh? Seems the Aloha State is suffering through a dengue fever outbreak. Ground zero for this is the Big Island. Almost three dozen people have gotten sick since September. Now hold on, don't cancel that travel reservation just yet. Dengue is rarely fatal when properly diagnosed, and most people don't even have any symptoms. If you don't get bitten you should be just fine. So grab some Off! and spray it on heavy.