(CNN) Historic election wraps up in Myanmar. The Donald and Ben Carson had busy weekends. And Southern California enjoyed a light show.It's Monday, and here are five things to know for your new day.MYANMARElection day: Who were the victor's in Myanmar's historic elections? Results are expected to be announced early this week, after millions of people voted yesterday in an election billed as the country's freest vote in a quarter-century. The party of opposition leader and Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi is seeking a bigger role in the country's political process.Photos: Landmark elections in Myanmar A woman casts her vote in a polling station in Naypyidaw, Myanmar, on Sunday, November 8. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Landmark elections in Myanmar A woman's finger is dipped in ink after casting her ballot in Dala, a village outside of Yangon, Myanmar, on November 8. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Landmark elections in Myanmar People rally outside the National League for Democracy office after Myanmar's first free and fair election in 25 years on November 8 in Yangon. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Landmark elections in Myanmar Votes are counted in a polling station in Yangon on November 8. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Landmark elections in Myanmar A vendor reads a local weekly journal showing a portrait of Myanmar opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi, President Thein Sein and others. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Landmark elections in Myanmar Pro-democracy supporters are optimistic that the election could be the beginning of real change in the country, which has been isolated for decades because of its repressive military-dominated government. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Landmark elections in Myanmar Tin Aye, chairman of Myanmar's Union Election Commission, inspects a polling station in Naypyidaw on November 7. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Landmark elections in Myanmar Thu Ryain Shwe, 26, of the National Unity Party, one of the youngest candidates in the parliamentary election, wears his candidate ID in Zigon. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Landmark elections in Myanmar A devotee prays at a chanting ceremony in Mandalay, Myanmar, on November 7 to bless citizens and to pray for a fair and peaceful election. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Landmark elections in Myanmar A supporter of Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy party holds a party flag in Mandalay on November 5. Hide Caption 10 of 10CAMPAIGN 2016Ballot busters: We're a year away from Election Day! So what important issues are being discussed on the campaign trail? Reviews of Donald Trump's : We're a year away from Election Day! So what important issues are being discussed on the campaign trail? Reviews of Donald Trump's "Saturday Night Live" appearance and Ben Carson's hatred for the media. Yes, the level of discourse is high today. The Donald got big ratings, but lukewarm reviews for his hosting gig on "SNL." Perhaps people were expecting more from the ex-"Apprentice" host. Meanwhile Carson is still mad at the media because we won't take him at his word that he was some kind of holy terror as a kid. He said no candidate has ever had to put up with such scrutiny, but he's not worried about it, because all the controversy is helping him raise money. Um, OK. It's gonna be one heck of a year.JUST WATCHED Weak reviews but strong ratings for Trump on 'SNL' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Weak reviews but strong ratings for Trump on 'SNL' 06:06MISSOURI FOOTBALLPigskin protest: The University of Missouri's football team has had a tough season so far: the Tigers are only 4-5. Now many wonder if the team will even finish the season. Over the weekend, the team's black players announced they would essentially The University of Missouri's football team has had a tough season so far: the Tigers are only 4-5. Now many wonder if the team will even finish the season. Over the weekend, the team's black players announced they would essentially go on strike until university President Tim Wolfe resigned or was fired. Many black students on campus say Wolfe and the rest of the school's administration has taken little to no action after several racial incidents on campus. One student has even started a hunger strike. Wolfe, in a statement released yesterday, didn't sound like a man about to quit his job. So what happens if the players refuse to play when the Tigers take on Brigham Young on Saturday? That's not entirely clear, at this point.JUST WATCHED Mizzou players boycott games, demand president out Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mizzou players boycott games, demand president out 03:25MYSTERY IN THE SKYLight show: So just what was that So just what was that bright, white light streaming through the Southern California sky over the weekend? The northern lights? Aliens? No, it was something a whole lot less exotic. Apparently the U.S. military test fired a missile from a submarine located right off the Southern California coast. The unarmed missile became a social media star Saturday as it burned its way through the night sky, with lots of folks posting photos to Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.JUST WATCHED Mystery light sparks anxiety in Southern California Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mystery light sparks anxiety in Southern California 00:53STARBUCKS