Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) The French scour Europe for a ringleader. Americans sour on refugees. And Earth get a dour report. It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door:PARIS ATTACKS: Where in the world is Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the suspected ringleader of the Paris attacks? Cops thought they had him cornered in an apartment building north of Paris yesterday. Five thousand rounds of ammunition and a suicide bomb blast later, the long standoff ended. But no Abaaoud . Next up: DNA tests on the body parts found in the rubble to figure out if he was even in the building. Abaaoud's a pretty slippery fellow. Last month, the French targeted him in an airstrike in Syria. Same deal: No Abaaoud.It posted a picture of the bomb it says brought down the Russian Metrojet plane. It's a rigged soda can.And it released a video warning of an attack on New York City. Said the mayor: You don't scare us.JUST WATCHED Was Paris attacks ringleader in raided apartment? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Was Paris attacks ringleader in raided apartment? 02:47REFUGEE BACKLASHJUST WATCHED Syrian refugees a hot topic in 2016 presidential race Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Syrian refugees a hot topic in 2016 presidential race 02:25BOKO HARAMAIRPORT STRIKEStop. Collaborate. And listen: Airport workers embraced their inner "Norma Rae" last night and have gone on strike, Airport workers embraced their inner "Norma Rae" last night and have gone on strike, demanding medical benefits and $15-an-hour pay. If you're in Chicago, Boston, New York, Philadelphia or Fort Lauderdale, you'll probably see folks holding signs and chanting outside terminals this morning. Got a plane to catch? Don't worry, the airlines say your flight will leave on time. Which is a surprise, because they usually never do.CLIMATE CHANGEHighway to the danger zone: We've got bad news and really bad news. First the bad news: if the Earth's temperature goes up by just two degrees, : We've got bad news and really bad news. First the bad news: if the Earth's temperature goes up by just two degrees, we'll see more wildfires, more intense hurricanes, more species dying and shrinking water supplies . Now, the really bad news: We're almost already halfway there . The average temperature last month was a record-shattering 0.98 degrees Celsius warmer than average. In fact, last month was the warmest October ever. And on that note: Happy Thursday, y'all.JUST WATCHED 2 degrees Celsius: A critical number for climate change Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2 degrees Celsius: A critical number for climate change 01:16BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these stories. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day: "It's 20 bucks, but ... it's worth 20 million bucks to me"A member of a vandalized Texas mosque talking about 7-year-old Jack Swanson, who emptied out his piggy bank to helpThere goes our New Year's resolutionMother of all selfiesTeach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime. Give a dad a GoPro and he shoots his entire Vegas vacation pointing it backwardNext time, pick up a bookISIS Books & Gifts in Denver keeps getting its sign vandalized because, you know, ISIS. If the idiots maybe read a little, they'd know ISIS is also the name of the Egyptian goddess of healing.Good things come to those who wait ... and wait ... and ...If you're thinking of dining at Damon Baehrel , you'll have to wait until 2025. The restaurant stopped accepting reservations in April 2014.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up later.Taken.It's going to be a painful day for the victims of the Chowchilla bus kidnapping, the largest mass abduction in U.S. history . They were told their three abductors would never see the light of day. Two are already out of prison, and the last will likely be paroled today. So much for promises kept.118 yearsAND FINALLY....If your lips are movin'Man finds out he's going to be a grandpa during family game night. His touching reaction got us a little verklempt.