(CNN) Metrojet crash probe continues. Ben Carson leads another poll. And it's a tough day for knights and dames.It's Tuesday, and here are five things to know for your new day.PLANE CRASH: Technical faults? Human error? Terrorism? The questions are swirling as authorities try to find out what caused Metrojet Flight 9268 to tumble from the sky. Experts think technical failure is the must likely reason, so they're taking no stock in claims by Islamic militants that they brought the Russian jetliner down. A heat flash was detected at the time of the crash, so that data is being analyzed to see if it has anything to do with the disaster.JUST WATCHED Satellite detects heat flash as Russian plane goes down Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Satellite detects heat flash as Russian plane goes down 03:05CAMPAIGN 2016Still on top: For the second time in as many weeks, Ben Carson comes out on top in a For the second time in as many weeks, Ben Carson comes out on top in a GOP presidential poll . Last week it was a CBS/New York Times poll. Yesterday it was a new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, which showed Carson with 29% support compared to 23% for Donald Trump. Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz are next, with 11% and 10% respectively.JUST WATCHED Ben Carson ahead of Donald Trump in new poll Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ben Carson ahead of Donald Trump in new poll 02:25BILL COSBYMore questions: Looks like Bill Cosby will be Looks like Bill Cosby will be deposed again. A court granted a motion yesterday allowing for Cosby and his ex-attorney to be questioned as part of model Janice Dickinson's defamation lawsuit against the comedian. The court ordered the deposition take place by November 25. In a separate case, Cosby was deposed last month in Boston about his alleged serial doping and groping of young women.JUST WATCHED Judge: Bill Cosby must sit for deposition Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Judge: Bill Cosby must sit for deposition 01:32EL FAROShip ID'd: It's official: Wreckage found miles below the Atlantic Ocean's surface is indeed from It's official: Wreckage found miles below the Atlantic Ocean's surface is indeed from the El Faro , the U.S. Navy said yesterday. The positive ID was made using a remote-controlled submersible operating almost three miles below the surface. The submersible is also searching for El Faro's data recorder.JUST WATCHED U.S. Navy: El Faro wreckage found near Bahamas Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH U.S. Navy: El Faro wreckage found near Bahamas 01:49AUSTRALIATitle twist: No more No more knights and dames in Australia. Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull says the titles are inappropriate for Australia's modern honor system, and Queen Elizabeth has agreed to end the practice. But if you are already a knight or dame in Australia, don't worry. The change won't affect those already blessed with the titles.