Story highlights GOP members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee seek Armendariz's testimonyThe committee "will use all authorities at its disposal" to assure he attendsEPA Administrator Jackson non-committal on whether Armendariz faces disciplinary actionFacing an onslaught of condemnation for comments made in 2010, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency's office in Dallas, Texas, was notified Friday that Congress is preparing to call him to testify.In a letter signed by the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Republican members, the committee requested clarification on Al Armendariz's enforcement strategies and policies while leading the agency's Region 6 office.The committee said it "will use all authorities at its disposal to ensure Armendariz's attendance" at an upcoming hearing.Asked Friday if Armendariz would face disciplinary action, the EPA's top administrator, Lisa Jackson, was non-committal. "I have spoken to Dr. Armendariz and made clear to him that I'm glad he has apologized, because his comments were disappointing, but not representative of the agency. They don't reflect any policy that we have and they don't reflect any of our actions over the past two years. And we'll continue to review and to talk to Dr. Armendariz."The controversy erupted this week when a video surfaced showing Armendariz saying his methods for dealing with non-compliant oil and gas companies were "like when the Romans conquered the villages in the Mediterranean, they'd go into little villages in Turkish towns and they'd find the first five guys they saw and crucify them."Sen. James Inhofe's office told CNN it uncovered the video while preparing for the blistering half-hour Senate floor speech he delivered Wednesday. In the speech, the Republican from Oklahoma criticized the Obama administration's energy policies and cited Armendariz in particular. "His comments give us a rare glimpse into the Obama administration's true agenda," Inofe said.After the video went viral, Armendariz quickly issued an apology. But Inhofe rejected the apology, and the White House and EPA dissociated themselves from the administrator's remarks."Administrator Armendariz apologized yesterday for his 'poor choice of words' when he admitted that EPA's 'general philosophy' is to 'crucify' and 'make examples' of oil and gas companies, but he did not apologize for EPA's actions towards its apparent crucifixion victims," Inhofe said."Take the word 'crucify' out of Administrator Armendariz's statement and nothing has changed: You still have a rogue agency following through on President Obama's 'general philosophy' to increase the price of gas and electricity," Inhofe added.White House Press Secretary Jay Carney told reporters Thursday, "The official's comments are inaccurate as a representation or characterization of the way the EPA has operated under President Obama."In a statement posted on its website, the EPA said, "It is deeply unfortunate that in a 2010 video an EPA official inaccurately suggested we are seeking to 'make examples' out of certain companies in the oil and gas industry."Armendariz is on a leave of absence from his job as a professor at Southern Methodist University while he serves with the EPA. He was appointed by Obama in 2009.The remarks surfaced at a critical time for Obama's reelection campaign. The administration's energy policies have been targeted by critics, including Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who blame the president's policies for higher oil and gas prices.