Photos: Photos: Navy jet crashes into apartments Navy jet crashes into apartments – A Navy jet crashed into apartments on April 6 in Virginia Beach, Virginia, sending flames and thick black smoke into the air. Hide Caption 1 of 10Photos: Photos: Navy jet crashes into apartments Navy jet crashes into apartments – The two crew members ejected from the jet, and only seven people, including the pilots, were injured. Hide Caption 2 of 10Photos: Photos: Navy jet crashes into apartments Navy jet crashes into apartments – This map shows the approximate location of the crash. Hide Caption 3 of 10Photos: Photos: Navy jet crashes into apartments Navy jet crashes into apartments – "I work right across the street from the apartment complex," iReporter Chris Johnson said. "As soon as I saw the smoke, I ran out and took pictures before the police showed up." Hide Caption 4 of 10Photos: Photos: Navy jet crashes into apartments Navy jet crashes into apartments – Smoke billows from apartment buildings as firefighters battle blazes. Virginia Beach Fire Department Battalion Chief Tim Riley said five buildings were heavily damaged. Hide Caption 5 of 10Photos: Photos: Navy jet crashes into apartments Navy jet crashes into apartments – iReporter David Bryan saw smoke from his hotel balcony in Virginia Beach and shot this photo. "You could smell the jet fuel, and all we could see was the black smoke," he said. Hide Caption 6 of 10Photos: Photos: Navy jet crashes into apartments Navy jet crashes into apartments – One of the plane's seats lies near the crash site. Retired rescue squad member Pat Kavanaugh said he and others found one of the two plane crew members who ejected. Hide Caption 7 of 10Photos: Photos: Navy jet crashes into apartments Navy jet crashes into apartments – Spectators watch as smoke billows from an apartment building in Virginia Beach. Hide Caption 8 of 10Photos: Photos: Navy jet crashes into apartments Navy jet crashes into apartments – Fire suppression foam covers wreckage and debris near the burned-out apartments. Hide Caption 9 of 10