(CNN) President Donald Trump said Apple's going to build three new plants right here in the US. Apple says, well, hold on a minute . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia sanctionsThe showdown over sanctions is on. The House overwhelmingly passed a Russia sanctions bill -- the vote was 419-3 -- that would give Congress the power to block any attempt by the White House to water it down. It now moves on to the Senate, although it's not clear when the upper chamber will take it up (it's dealing with a little thing called health care) or, if the bill makes it to the President's desk, if he'll sign it. The White House has been putting out mixed messages on its support for the bill.The Russians say if this measure becomes law, the United States will have taken "serious steps toward destruction" of normal relations between the two countries and that they would have to prepare a "painful" reaction to it. The bill also contains new sanctions against Iran and North Korea.2. Health care billSo the Senate -- after a tie-breaking vote from Vice President Mike Pence -- voted to begin debate on an Obamacare repeal bill. For the GOP, that was the easy part. Now comes the heavy lifting -- in the form of hours of debate and a seemingly endless stream of votes on amendments. The Senate's already shot down the first proposal to come up, which was a rehash of a previous Senate health care bill with about $100 billion in extra Medicaid money thrown in to sweeten the pot.Essentially what's going to happen over the next few days is senators will throw pretty much everything on the wall to see what sticks, but it's unclear whether any of it will get the 50 votes (plus Pence's tie-breaker) needed to pass something.JUST WATCHED Senate GOP squeaks out vote to start health care debate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Senate GOP squeaks out vote to start health care debate 03:163. Minneapolis police shootingDid a slap spark the shooting death of Justine Ruszczyk? One of the Minneapolis police officers involved in the shooting says a "loud sound" startled him, and Ruszczyk was shot shortly afterward. The source of that sound may have been Ruszczyk slapping the back of the patrol car, according to a recently revealed search warrant. The shooting has roiled the Minneapolis Police Department, caused outrage in the United States and Australia and led to the resignation of the city's police chief.JUST WATCHED 911 transcripts of woman killed by police Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 911 transcripts of woman killed by police 01:504. France wildfiresThousands of people on the French Riviera have been evacuated as forest fires rage in the area . About 10,000 were moved from the coastal town of Bormes-les-Mimosas. Firefighting planes are dotting the skies over the town, dropping water bombs on the blazes. Many French residents vacation along the Riviera during late July and August.JUST WATCHED Wildfires prompt evacuation in southern France Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wildfires prompt evacuation in southern France 02:325. NFL and brain diseaseCTE was found in 99% of deceased NFL player's brains donated to science, a new study reveals. Chronic traumatic encephalopathy is a brain disease often found in people who've been exposed to repeated head trauma, and its symptoms include memory loss, confusion, aggression and sometimes suicidal behavior.So does this mean every NFL player will develop CTE? Not necessarily. The study points out its own potential bias because relatives of players donated their brains (right now CTE is only diagnosed after death) because of symptoms seen while the athletes were alive. And more importantly, the study doesn't have a comparison group that represents all players who competed at the college or pro level.JUST WATCHED Study: CTE in 99% of dead NFL players Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Study: CTE in 99% of dead NFL players 01:11BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Bond's back007 will be back in theaters in 2019 for his 25th outing, but it's uncertain if Daniel Craig will be in the driver's seat this time.Life after deathAn outcry from fans has led to a reprieve of sorts for Microsoft Paint , but it seems like nothing can deter Adobe from killing FlashDown for the countMaybe guys in Western nations need to switch from briefs to boxers or something because sperm counts in these countries are plummeting, new analysis finds.Is there an 'Ice Cream' mode?Lyft riders can head straight for the border on the way home, now that Lyft has "Taco Mode" and will take them to the nearest Taco Bell for a free tacoSelf-madeFirst came the cars that drive themselves. Now here come the houses that build themselves . So what does the world need humans for again?AND FINALLY ...You're gonna cry, too