(CNN) What's fresher than a popsicle on a hot summer day? The seemingly constant stream of news about the Russia investigation. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. POTUS teamThe Trump legal team is getting trimmed and polished as the Russia story continues to crowd the top of the political docket. Marc Kasowitz, Trump's longtime personal attorney who has been the lead lawyer on the Russia probe, will see his role recede . Instead, John Dowd, along with Jay Sekulow , will be the President's primary personal attorneys for the investigation, while attorney Ty Cobb takes the leads from inside the White House. Also, Mark Corallo has resigned as spokesman and communications strategist for the legal team.It's no secret the President isn't happy with how much noise the Russia investigation -- and special counsel Robert Mueller -- are making. He's also not too happy with how his legal team has handled the allegations, hence the shake-up. On the flip side, his legal team reportedly really, reeeally wants him to stop tweeting and talking about the investigation.2. O.J. SimpsonO.J. Simpson could be a free man soon. He was granted parole Thursday after serving nearly nine years in prison for a 2007 armed robbery in Las Vegas. He could be released as soon as October, and then ... what? What's next for one of the most infamous figures in American criminal justice history? There are some options, the most likely being a life of memorabilia sales, autograph signings, and navigating public curiosity -- and public scorn.JUST WATCHED After 9 years in prison, O.J. granted parole Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH After 9 years in prison, O.J. granted parole 03:213. Robert MuellerJUST WATCHED WaPo, NYT: Trump legal team trying to undercut Mueller Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH WaPo, NYT: Trump legal team trying to undercut Mueller 01:28Trump has said he's leery of the investigation, and Mueller's future isn't 100% certain. In an interview with The New York Times , Trump said it would be a "violation" for Mueller to dig through Trump family finances as part of his probe and left open the chance he could fire Mueller.4. PolandCitizens are pouring into streets across Poland, protesting what some lament as the impending death of democracy in the country . The protests come before a Friday vote on a bill by the country's ruling party, the Law and Justice Party or PiS, that would allow Parliament to appoint Supreme Court judges. Under the Polish Constitution, only the president can appoint high court judges and only with the opinion of a constitutional body designed to maintain impartiality. The European Union is watching all this very closelyJUST WATCHED Polish protesters sing national anthem Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Polish protesters sing national anthem 00:515. BurundiTwo of the six teenagers who were reported missing while visiting Washington for an international robotics competition have reportedly crossed into Canada . The six teens represented Burundi, a small country in East Africa, in the inaugural FIRST Global robotics competition, competing alongside teams from more than 150 other countries. They set off a chain of panic and concern when they went missing this week, but police say there's no sign of foul play. Police couldn't confirm whether the two teens are still in Canada, and they didn't give an update on the other four.JUST WATCHED Burundi teens in robotic competition missing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Burundi teens in robotic competition missing 01:28QUOTE OF THE DAY"I want to heal, I want to feel, like I'm close to something real. I want to find something I've wanted all along. Somewhere I belong."Linkin Park, "Somewhere I Belong"JUST WATCHED Linkin Park singer Chester Bennington dead Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Linkin Park singer Chester Bennington dead 00:33BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.John Mc'I Want to Quit ISIS.' Ha!JUST WATCHED Fighting terror with comedy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fighting terror with comedy 03:22The cosmic epic 'Valerian' opens this weekendElon Musk MAY be building a New York-DC hyperloopA security robot drowned in a fountain, and people laughed and laughedCyber attackers hacked a casino fish tank to try to steal dataIs it less weird if we mention the tank was connected to the internet ? No?EGADS! Someone touched the Queen!A Canadian official broke protocol to help Queen Elizabeth down some steps . It was a minor crisis.AND FINALLY ...Cotton candy or magic?Make your eyes AND your sweet tooth happy with the most beautiful cloud of cotton candy ever. (Click to view)