(CNN) Congrats to the American League, which won the MLB All-Star Game for the fifth year in a row . Here's what else you need to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia investigationNo matter what side you're on in the whole Trump-Russia thing , you have to admit that Donald Trump Jr.'s emails are something of a game changer. Up until now, President Trump and his supporters downplayed the controversy and insisted that during the campaign no one from Team Trump had connected with Russians.But Trump Jr.'s emails -- which he released right before The New York Times published them -- undercuts that position . They show that members of Trump's campaign were glad to meet with someone they'd been told was connected to the Russian government and who promised dirt on Hillary Clinton.The meeting and emails -- which ratchet up possible legal liability for the President's son and other campaign operatives -- have caught the attention of special prosecutor Robert Mueller and will be added to his investigation.2. Health care billThe Senate's going to delay its August recess to carve out more time to work on health care, so GOP senators must be making some good progress in the drive to get rid of Obamacare, right? Nope. No one seems to know exactly what the revised bill will look like , but GOP leaders say a procedural vote is still on for next week. Ready for more confusion? Sen. Lindsey Graham said he's working on his own health care plan that includes the input of -- gasp! -- DemocratsJUST WATCHED Dem senator: Constituents want single-payer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dem senator: Constituents want single-payer 05:583. Military plane crashAmerica lost some of the best of the best when that military transport plane went down in Mississippi. Sixteen people were killed, including seven Marine special forces members from Camp Lejeune. The plane, carrying troops and equipment, was headed to a base in Arizona when it crashed. Witnesses to the crash said they heard a loud bang before the plane, with white smoke trailing, spiraled to the ground, nose down.JUST WATCHED 16 dead in military plane crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 16 dead in military plane crash 01:004. US-Qatar agreementJUST WATCHED Qatar FM calls list of demands unrealistic Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Qatar FM calls list of demands unrealistic 01:055. Pennsylvania missing menInvestigators are calling it a "mind-boggling" mystery: Four men went missing last week north of Philadelphia, and foul play is suspected. The men, ranging in age from 18 to 22, may have all known each other. Police are conducting a big search of a 90-acre property in the area and have arrested the son of the property's owners. But the charges he's being held on don't relate to the case.JUST WATCHED Massive search for 4 missing Pennsylvania men Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Massive search for 4 missing Pennsylvania men 01:16NUMBER OF THE DAY2.7 millionThat's how many airbags Takata is adding to the biggest automotive recall in history.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Matter of timingRemember that buzzed-about photo that could have been Amelia Earhart? Two bloggers say that pic is from a book published two years before she vanished.King Khalifa"Gangnam Style" has been dethroned as YouTube's top video, replaced by Wiz Khalifa's "See You Again," the weepiest rap song ever.Unbreakable bondWhen a family was in danger of drowning off a Florida beach, 80 strangers formed a human chain to save them.Let the games beginLA and Paris are probably getting the Olympic Games , but we'll have to wait to find out which years. One city is likely to host in 2024, the other in 2028.Pregnant pauseA Spanish airline's going to stop asking female job applicants to take a pregnancy test . It's amazing what a little outrage -- and a fine -- will do.QUOTE OF THE DAY"I'm not going to be a Republican anymore""Morning Joe" host Joe Scarborough, telling Stephen Colbert that he's embarrassed by the GOP's reaction to Donald Trump's controversiesAND FINALLY ...World class