(CNN) Amazon Prime Day is right around the corner. Here's what to expect and what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President TrumpLater this morning Trump is expected to get a warm welcome in Warsaw's historic Krasinski Square, where he'll address the Polish people. Poland generally likes it when US presidents visit , but the good vibes may dissipate some when Trump arrives in Germany, where he's much less popular.2. North KoreaNikki Haley, US ambassador to the United Nations, had a simple response to North Korea's test launch of an intercontinental ballistic missile: We're not having it. Haley, during a meeting of the UN Security Council, said the United States would do whatever it needed to do -- including possibly using military force -- to stop the North Koreans. She went after China, too, saying its trade with the United States would be in jeopardy if it kept helping Kim Jong Un's regime. US officials said what the North tested Tuesday was a new kind of missile that was capable of hitting Alaska.JUST WATCHED Haley: Time to escalate response to N Korea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Haley: Time to escalate response to N Korea 01:053. VenezuelaThe unrest in Caracas went from the streets and into the halls of power as supporters of Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro stormed the National Assembly and attacked opposition lawmakers on the country's Independence Day. Wednesday's attack, which happened after government supporters forced open the chambers' large wooden doors, left dozens of lawmakers bloodied. Some journalists were attacked, too. At least 12 people were injured. Maduro condemned the violence. Things have been tough this year in Venezuela , which faces a deepening economic crisis and violent street protests from people seeking changes in government.JUST WATCHED Clashes at Venezuelan National Assembly Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Clashes at Venezuelan National Assembly 00:514. Steve ScaliseJUST WATCHED Who is Rep. Steve Scalise? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Rep. Steve Scalise? 00:575. AutomobilesIs this the beginning of the end of gas-only cars? It is if Volvo has its way. The Swedish automaker says it will stop making cars with only internal combustion engines. By 2019 all of its vehicles will either be hybrids or all-electric, making Volvo the first traditional carmaker to make such a move. But some analysts have put the brakes on the idea that gas-only cars are going away forever . Sure electric cars are becoming more popular, they say, but most automakers will be hesitant to stop making gas-only cars for a number of reasons, starting with the fact that the vehicles are so profitable.JUST WATCHED Volvo to make all its cars electric by 2019 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Volvo to make all its cars electric by 2019 01:05BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Talking 'bout a revolution?No, NPR wasn't advocating overthrowing the government. Its stream of July Fourth tweets was from the Declaration of Independence.Street heroThe newest Muppet on "Sesame Street" in Afghanistan is Zeerak, a 4-year-old boy who helps promote gender equity in a country where women's rights deteriorated under the Taliban. He and his sister show girls can be as heroic as boys.Mystery solved?Did Amelia Earhart survive her crash into the Pacific? A newly discovered photo suggests she may have , but some historians aren't so sure.JUST WATCHED Does photo show Amelia Earhart survived? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Does photo show Amelia Earhart survived? 01:09Costly lossBefore losing at Wimbledon, Russian tennis player Daniil Medvedev went for broke and threw coins at an umpire . That'll probably cost him more later -- in a fine.Gaga's got his backEd Sheeran says to heck with Twitter and is leaving the social media platform. Lady Gaga says good for him , offering support for the singer on Instagram.Ice breakerA huge ice sheet may be about to break off of Antarctica, which would create one of the biggest icebergs the world has ever seen.JUST WATCHED Giant iceberg due to break away Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Giant iceberg due to break away 00:53AND FINALLY ...Come on and take a free ride