(CNN) Welcome back! We're sure you're bright-eyed and bushy-tailed and ready for the rest of the week. Here's what you need to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. North KoreaNorth Korea gave the US an unwelcome Independence Day present when it announced Tuesday it had successfully launched a long-range missile capable of reaching "anywhere in the world." Obviously, world powers were spurred to action, but some of the biggest players were split on how to respond to the rogue state. China and Russia want concessions, while the US joined South Korea for a show of military might . The countries held drills Wednesday to display their own missile strength. Whatever solution the US and its fellow powers choose, US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has made things clear. "We will never accept a nuclear-armed North Korea," he said after the launch.2. G20 summitPresident Trump is just days away from crucial meetings with Russian President Vladimir Putin and German Chancellor Angela Merkel at this year's G20 Summit in Germany. But first, he stops today in Poland, where a conservative populace and strong pro-American sentiments are sure to make him feel welcome . He's due to address a regional summit of Eastern European leaders and deliver a speech outlining his vision for trans-Atlantic ties.3. Voter registrationJUST WATCHED 44 states refuse Trump's voter info request Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 44 states refuse Trump's voter info request 02:074. RedditThe Reddit user who initially claimed credit for President Trump's tweet that showed an image of Trump tackling CNN i ssued an apology Tuesday for the video and other offensive content he has posted . The user wrote in a lengthy post on Reddit that he does not advocate violence against the press, and he expressed remorse there and in an interview with CNN for other posts he made that were racist and anti-Semitic. A senior administration official told CNN Monday that the video was not pulled from Reddit. The White House still has not responded to a series of questions from CNN asking how the video ended up as a tweet from the PresidentJUST WATCHED Apparent origin of Trump wrestling video raises questions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Apparent origin of Trump wrestling video raises questions 03:415. UK babyJUST WATCHED Pope, Trump offer support to dying child Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pope, Trump offer support to dying child 02:01BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.E! News host Maria Menounos is recovering from brain tumor surgeryA Canadian baby got a health card with no sex identificationThe baby's parent wants the child to make its own choice about genderA truck crash in Austria ends with 7,500 chickens on the highwayCops get complaint about slip-and-slide, end up joining inMan tries to kill wasps, sets off fireworks, destroys garageAND FINALLY ...The kaleidoscope is people!