(CNN) If you want to send a wedding gift to Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, hold up. They want you to make donations to charity instead . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Michael Cohen raid2. SyriaA decision could come today or tomorrow about how the US will respond to the chemical attack on civilians in Syria. President Trump hasn't detailed what the response will be, but he promised it will be "very tough" and that "nothing's off the table." At least 49 people, many of them women and children, died in the weekend attack on Douma, the last rebel-held town in the country. At the UN, US Ambassador Nikki Haley kept up the tough talk during emergency meetings on the attacks, telling Russia that its hands are "covered in the blood of Syrian children." The Syrian government and Russia have vehemently denied involvement in the attack.3. Bill Cosby trialAnd before Cosby even walked into court, things got really bizarre when a topless protester -- with the words "Cosby rapist" written on her back -- jumped a barricade near Cosby and started chanting . She was arrested and identified as Nicolle Rochelle, who appeared in four episodes of "The Cosby Show" in the early '90s.JUST WATCHED Topless woman arrested outside Cosby trial Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Topless woman arrested outside Cosby trial 01:104. Russian spy poisoningThe adult daughter of an ex-Russian spy who with her father was poisoned last month in the UK is out of the hospital . Yulia Skripal and her dad, Sergei Skripal, were found slumped on a bench in Salisbury, England. They'd been exposed to a nerve agent. Furious British officials blamed Russia for the poisoning, but the Russians said it wasn't them. A number of countries, including the US, kicked out Russian diplomats over the incident. Yulia Skripal regained consciousness a couple weeks ago and thanked those who treated her and her fatherJUST WATCHED Yulia Skripal released from hospital Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Yulia Skripal released from hospital 01:485. FacebookJUST WATCHED See Mark Zuckerberg on Capitol Hill Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See Mark Zuckerberg on Capitol Hill 00:56Ahead of the congressional testimony, White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow offered Zuckerberg this fashion advice : "Is he gonna wear a suit and tie and a clean white shirt? That's my biggest question. Is he gonna behave like an adult, as a major corporate leader, or give me this phony bologna -- what is it, hoodies and dungarees?"JUST WATCHED Kudlow takes a swipe at Zuckerberg's wardrobe Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kudlow takes a swipe at Zuckerberg's wardrobe 00:32THIS JUST IN ...Fatal crashSix people died after a small plane caught fire after takeoff and crashed last night on a golf course in Scottsdale, Arizona.JUST WATCHED Several dead after plane crash in Arizona Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Several dead after plane crash in Arizona 00:52BREAKFAST BROWSECongratulations, Senator!Illinois Sen. Tammy Duckworth gave birth yesterday to a baby girl , her office announced, the first US senator to do so while in office.JUST WATCHED Duckworth: Allow babies on Senate floor Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Duckworth: Allow babies on Senate floor 01:45Going his own wayLindsey Buckingham once said Fleetwood Mac's "dysfunction" made the band great. Guess that's not working anymore, since he's leaving the groupJUST WATCHED One-on-one with Fleetwood Mac (2013) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH One-on-one with Fleetwood Mac (2013) 04:22'Did you pack the explosives?'Bomb jokes at the airport are a bad idea. Don't believe us? Ask Green Bay Packers player Trevor Davis. He learned the hard wayOne vet at a timeHe's 20 years old and wants to interview every World War II combat vet he can while they're still with us.Fitting tributeCanadians are honoring the junior hockey players killed in a bus crash in the most appropriate way -- with hockey sticksSave them a piece of cakeTheir dream weddings and final exams were set for same day. So, after saying their "I dos," these Nigerian brides went straight to class.WeddingTODAY'S NUMBER$6.45 millionThat's how much a woman was awarded in a revenge porn case in federal court. A man was ordered to pay the amount after he was accused of spreading naked pics and videos of his ex-girlfriend online.AND FINALLYYou're not you when you're hungry