(CNN) Think your golf game is bad? You'll feel better knowing the defending Masters champ hit five straight into water . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White HouseThere's so much going on in the White House, it's impossible to choose just one thing. So, here's a little rundown for the end of the week:- Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, has endured a week of scandal , but Trump still floated him as a replacement for embattled Attorney General Jeff Sessions.JUST WATCHED Trump considered replacing Sessions with Pruitt Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump considered replacing Sessions with Pruitt 03:43- Trump yesterday said female migrants from Central America are " raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before ," but no one seems to know exactly where and how that claim came about.And, if that weren't enough, the President revived his debunked assertion that millions of people voted illegally during the 2016 election.JUST WATCHED Trump repeats his false voter fraud assertion Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump repeats his false voter fraud assertion 00:422. South KoreaFormer South Korean President Park Geun-hye has been sentenced to 24 years in prison after being found guilty on multiple counts of abuse of power, bribery and coercion. Park's conviction ends a corruption scandal that gripped South Korea, upending the country's politics and implicating some of its most powerful figures. The charges were related to a massive influence-peddling case that moved angry South Koreans to flood the streets in protests calling for her removal. In 2017, she was impeached and removed from officePhotos: Faces of Seoul protests Thousands of South Koreans took to the streets of Seoul Saturday after President Park Geun-hye was officially impeached. While polls suggest most of the country -- as many as 80% -- supports the move, a small minority of demonstrators said they wanted to "impeach the impeachment." Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Faces of Seoul protests "Young people don't understand," said Song Bok-sung, 80, who was protesting Park's impeachment. "We remember the (Korean War) and how bad it can get." Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Faces of Seoul protests "There was no reason for this impeachment," said Jason Choi, 36. He added that he was worried the next South Korean government would be soft on North Korea and may reverse the decision to deploy a US missile defense system in the country. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Faces of Seoul protests The Park decision shows that "maybe this is a time for the older people to listen to the younger people," said Kim Dae-rim, 30, who had been protesting for weeks for the now former President's impeachment. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Faces of Seoul protests "Today feels like a festival, everyone is happy," said Mun Ha-neul (left) and Park Hyun-jin (right), both 17, who were celebrating Park's ouster. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Faces of Seoul protests Jang Song-hoi, 38, was gathering signatures to start a new political party representing the youth of South Korea. "We want the youth to be able to make the world they want," he said. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Faces of Seoul protests Lee Dong-sun, 36, brought her children to the demonstration celebrating Park's impeachment. "Before, when there were other protests, I would just sit at home, even when I agreed," she said. "But after I had children, I felt I could no longer ride on the backs of others ... to bring them the future I desire." Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Faces of Seoul protests "Today is just the beginning," said Kim Ga-hyun, 26 (left). Her friend Kim Bo-hee, 24, said that after months of protests, it was good to have a "day of celebration." Hide Caption 8 of 83. Opioid crisisJUST WATCHED FDA chief: Opioids are biggest crisis we face Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH FDA chief: Opioids are biggest crisis we face 03:544. Race and policeJUST WATCHED Black man brandishing pipe fatally shot by NYPD Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Black man brandishing pipe fatally shot by NYPD 01:045. CDC scientistJUST WATCHED Missing CDC employee found dead Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Missing CDC employee found dead 01:08BREAKFAST BROWSEThe final Parkland shooting survivor has been released from the hospitalJUST WATCHED Last Parkland shooting patient leaves hospital Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Last Parkland shooting patient leaves hospital 00:45How Cubs manager Joe Maddon welcomes immigrants to his hometownA sumo wrestler collapsed in the ring. Medics weren't allowed to treat him because they're women.How workplaces could get rid of employee passwordsNo more fitting in a capital letter, a number, an ancient rune, a block of Chinese calligraphy and a family secret into a password? Sign us up.JUST WATCHED You are your password: The world of biometrics Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH You are your password: The world of biometrics 11:15Indiana Jones could be played by a woman, says Steven SpielbergTHIS JUST IN ...Labor updateThe US economy is poised for some good news after a rough week. The Labor Department will publish the March jobs report at 8:30 a.m. ET. Here are four things to watch forHAPPENING LATERCosby jury seatedjury has been selected in the retrial of Bill Cosby , who faces three counts of aggravated indecent assault in Pennsylvania. The 12 jurors include seven men and five women. Six men are white, and one is black. Four women are white, and one is black. Opening statements are set for Monday.TOTAL RECALLThe Hubble Space Telescope has discovered the farthest individual star ever seen. What is its nickname?a. Icarusb. Zeusc. Daedalusd. AresTODAY'S QUOTE"I woke up over a week ago now and am glad to say my strength is growing daily."Yulia Skripal, daughter of ex-Russian double agent Sergei Skripal, speaking publicly for the first time since the pair was poisoned with a nerve agentTODAY'S NUMBER$37 millionThe amount in damages a jury awarded a New Jersey couple after the husband got cancer after decades of using talcum powderAND FINALLYHere's breakfast!