(CNN) Congrats to Baker Mayfield! He's the No. 1 pick in the NFL Draft . He's headed to the Cleveland Browns, who always seem to pick first. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. North & South KoreaJust months ago, it seemed almost inevitable that hostilities would return to the Korean Peninsula. This morning, the world faces a startling new prospect: a peninsula at peace. The leaders of North and South Korea met at the DMZ this morning for their much anticipated, historic summit. They did not disappoint:-- North Korea's Kim Jong Un and South Korea's Moon Jae-in say they intend to formally end the Korean War later this year, 65 years after fighting stopped.President Moon: There will be no more warPresident Moon: There will be no more war 01:46President Moon: There will be no more war-- Moon and Kim announced a goal of achieving a nuclear-free Korean peninsula through "complete denuclearization."JUST WATCHED Will Kim Jong Un ever give up his nukes? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Will Kim Jong Un ever give up his nukes? 03:00-- They also said the two nations will work to reunify divided families.There were plenty of made-for-TV moments during the summit. The spectacle of Kim walking over the border , becoming the first North Korean leader to ever visit the South, and being greeted with a warm handshake by Moon. And then, unexpectedly, the two leaders grabbed hands and briefly crossed the border again into the North, in another symbolic gesture. Later, at the DMZ's Peace House, Kim wrote in the guest book: "A new history begins now."JUST WATCHED The moment Kim Jong Un crossed to the South Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The moment Kim Jong Un crossed to the South 01:15But lots of questions are still unanswered. Do the North and the South (and by extension, the US) mean the same thing by "denuclearization?" Are the North Koreans serious this time? (They've used the "charm offense" before, making big promises to stave off sanctions, then pulling back.) And what does this mean for President Trump? The news is breaking almost nonstop on this historic story. Click here for the latest updates.2. Bill CosbyJUST WATCHED Watch Cosby accusers react to verdict Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch Cosby accusers react to verdict 01:31Cosby's under house arrest -- and eventually GPS monitoring -- until his sentencing. His was the first celebrity assault trial since the #MeToo movement gained steamed, and many pointed to the guilty verdicts as further evidence of a true cultural shift. Cosby, once known as "America's dad," is now a true pariah , as several schools yesterday revoked his honorary degrees.JUST WATCHED Highs and lows of Bill Cosby's career Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Highs and lows of Bill Cosby's career 01:413. White HouseJUST WATCHED Trump: Ronny Jackson treated very unfairly Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: Ronny Jackson treated very unfairly 01:23Meanwhile, President Trump hosts another world leader today. German Chancellor Angela Merkel visits the White House, but there won't be a red-carpet rollout for her like the one French President Emmanuel Macron got. No fancy dinners or military fanfare, just a 20-minute Oval Office meeting, lunch and a half-hour news conference. Trump and Merkel don't have the best relationship -- remember that first, awkward non-handshake ? -- but her mission is the same as Macron's: to get Trump to re-engage with Europe and the world.JUST WATCHED Trump's awkward visit with Merkel Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump's awkward visit with Merkel 02:014. US & the Middle EastThe US is stepping up surveillance of Iranian missiles inside Syria as fears rise the weapons could be used to strike Israel in the next few days. About half a dozen US officials told CNN they're worried about hostilities breaking out but don't have a concrete sense of when or if the Iranians would hit Israel. The US continues to recognize Israel's right to self-defense and its view that Iranian weapons inside Syria could threaten Israel directly. But they're concerned any Israeli strike could result in a counterstrike by Iranian elements inside SyriaJUST WATCHED Israel-Iran: Escalation has begun Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Israel-Iran: Escalation has begun 02:585. Tom BrokawNBC News is dealing with yet another one of its big names being accused of sexual harassment: former "Nightly News" anchor Tom Brokaw . Ex-NBC correspondent Linda Vester said Brokaw twice tried to kiss her, groped her and showed up at her hotel room uninvited back in the '90s. Brokaw, who retired 14 years ago, denied the claims. NBC News is still reeling from former "Today" show anchor Matt Lauer's ouster over "inappropriate sexual behavior." It's not clear what action, if any, NBC News will take on the Brokaw allegations.JUST WATCHED Tom Brokaw facing sexual harassment allegations Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tom Brokaw facing sexual harassment allegations 00:49THIS JUST INAnd his name is ...The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have named their son, Louis Arthur Charles , Kensington Palace just announced. Prince Louis is the couple's third child and fifth in line to throne.Photos: Will and Kate's royal family Britain's Prince William and his wife Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, hold their newborn baby son outside a London hospital on Monday, April 23. The boy, whose name was announced several days later as Louis Arthur Charles, is their third child. Hide Caption 1 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family Prince William holds the hands of his other two children, Prince George and Princess Charlotte, as they visit the hospital to meet their new brother. Hide Caption 2 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family Will and Kate attend Easter service with Queen Elizabeth II on April 1. Hide Caption 3 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family Will and Kate attend the Royal Foundation Forum in London with Will's brother, Prince Harry, and Harry's fiancee, American actress Meghan Markle, on Wednesday, February 28. Hide Caption 4 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The couple attends the BAFTA Awards in London on Sunday, February 18. Hide Caption 5 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family During a visit to Norway, Catherine is escorted to dinner by King Harald V of Norway on Thursday, February 1. William is escorted by Norway's Queen Sonja. Hide Caption 6 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The image, used for the Duke and Duchess' 2017 Christmas card, shows the couple with their children, Prince George and Princess Charlotte. Hide Caption 7 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family Paddington Bear dances with Catherine while Prince William looks on during a charity event in London in October 2017. Hide Caption 8 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The royal family arrives at the airport in Berlin for a three-day visit in Germany in July 2017. Hide Caption 9 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family This photo of Charlotte was taken in April 2017 by her mother. Charlotte is fourth in line to the British throne behind her grandfather, Prince Charles; her father, Prince William; and her big brother, Prince George. Hide Caption 10 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family Charlotte is held by her mother as her family ends an eight-day tour of Canada in October 2016. At left is her brother and her father. Hide Caption 11 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge released new photos of Prince George to mark his third birthday in July 2016. Here he plays with the family's pet dog, Lupo. Hide Caption 12 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family Members of the royal family gather on a balcony in June 2016, during celebrations marking the 90th birthday of Queen Elizabeth II. From left are Princess Anne; Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall; Prince Charles; Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge; Princess Charlotte; Prince George; Prince William; Prince Harry; Queen Elizabeth II; and Prince Philip. Hide Caption 13 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family Kensington Palace released four photos of Princess Charlotte ahead of her first birthday in May 2016. Hide Caption 14 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family US President Barack Obama talks with Prince William as Catherine plays with Prince George in April 2016. The President and his wife were visiting Kensington Palace. Hide Caption 15 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family Prince George gets a boost from some foam blocks for a special family photo in April 2016. The portrait, featuring the four generations of the House of Windsor, was commissioned by the Royal Mail and would be featured on a series of stamps to commemorate the Queen's 90th birthday. Hide Caption 16 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family William and Catherine pose with their children during a trip to the French Alps in March 2016. Hide Caption 17 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The family poses for a Christmas photo in December 2015. Hide Caption 18 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family Princess Charlotte plays with a stuffed dog in this photo taken by her mother in November 2015. Hide Caption 19 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family William and Catherine pose with their children at Charlotte's christening in July 2015. Hide Caption 20 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family Princess Charlotte is seen with her big brother for the first time in a photo released by Kensington Palace in June 2015. Hide Caption 21 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family William and Catherine present their newborn daughter as they leave a London hospital in May 2015. Hide Caption 22 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family In March 2015, William and Catherine visit a center dedicated to community learning in London. Hide Caption 23 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The royal family celebrates Prince George's first birthday with a trip to the Natural History Museum in July 2014. Hide Caption 24 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The royal family waves to a crowd before boarding a plane in Wellington, New Zealand, in April 2014. They went on a three-week tour of Australia and New Zealand. Hide Caption 25 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The royal couple attends the Tusk Conservation Awards at the Royal Society in London in September 2013. Hide Caption 26 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family William and Catherine start an ultra marathon in Holyhead, Wales, in August 2013. It was Catherine's first public appearance since the birth of Prince George. Hide Caption 27 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The couple are pictured with their newborn boy, Prince George, in 2013. The new parents released two family photographs taken by Michael Middleton, Catherine's father. Hide Caption 28 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The Duke and Duchess and their newborn son depart St. Mary's Hospital in London in July 2013. Hide Caption 29 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family In June 2013, William, Catherine and Prince Harry arrive at Westminster Abbey for a celebration marking the 60th anniversary of Queen Elizabeth II's coronation. Hide Caption 30 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family In April 2013, Harry, Catherine and William make magic on the set used to depict Diagon Alley in the "Harry Potter" films. Hide Caption 31 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The couple attends a St. Patrick's Day parade as they visit Aldershot, England, in March 2013. Hide Caption 32 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family In September 2012, the couple drank coconut milk from a tree that Queen Elizabeth II planted decades ago in the South Pacific nation of Tuvalu. Hide Caption 33 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family Catherine and William celebrate during cycling events at the Olympic Games in London in August 2012. Hide Caption 34 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The Queen, William and Catherine stand on the balcony of Buckingham Palace during the finale of the Queen's Diamond Jubilee celebrations in June 2012. Hide Caption 35 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family As part of their charity work, the couple attended a "healthy living cookery session" in London in December 2011. Hide Caption 36 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The newly married royal couple watches a rodeo demonstration at a government reception in Calgary, Alberta, in July 2011. Hide Caption 37 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family Catherine shovels soil during a tree-planting ceremony in Ottawa in July 2011. Hide Caption 38 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family You can feel the love as the happy couple attends a Snowbirds air show during Canada Day celebrations in July 2011. Hide Caption 39 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family US President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama meet with the royal couple at Buckingham Palace in May 2011. Hide Caption 40 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The newlyweds walk hand in hand from Buckingham Palace the day after their wedding in April 2011. Hide Caption 41 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family After their wedding on April 29, 2011, the couple drove from Buckingham Palace to Clarence House in a vintage Aston Martin. Hide Caption 42 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family William and Catherine kiss on the balcony of Buckingham Palace after their wedding ceremony in London. Hide Caption 43 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The pair returned to their alma mater in St. Andrews, Scotland, in February 2011. They launched a fundraising campaign for a new scholarship. Hide Caption 44 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The couple poses for photographers to mark their engagement in November 2010. Catherine received the engagement ring that belonged to William's late mother, Diana. Hide Caption 45 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The couple cheers on the English rugby team during the Six Nations Championship match in London in February 2007. Hide Caption 46 of 47 Photos: Will and Kate's royal family The couple takes a photo after graduating from the University of St. Andrews in June 2005. They met at school and even shared a house with others while students. Hide Caption 47 of 47BREAKFAST BROWSEFrom here to 'Infinity' ...Headed out to see the new "Avengers" movie today ? CNN's Brian Lowry says the superhero flick -- 10 years in the making -- definitely lives up to the hype.JUST WATCHED 'Avengers' primer: What are Infinity Stones? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Avengers' primer: What are Infinity Stones? 01:05... and (way) beyond!Inspired by the on-screen Avengers, a photographer transformed kids who were being bullied into real-life superheroesWinter will have to waitNot only will "Game of Thrones" fans not get new TV episodes this year, but they'll have to wait a while longer for the next book, too.Best brothersPrince Harry, in a surprise to exactly no one, picked older brother Prince William to be his best man at his wedding next month.JUST WATCHED Prince Harry smokes Will, Kate in charity race Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Prince Harry smokes Will, Kate in charity race 00:49Front page newsThe nation's first lynching memorial is open, and an Alabama newspaper found a stunning way to mark the occasion.HAPPENING LATERCourt appearanceJoseph James DeAngelo, the man accused of being the Golden State Killer, will be arraigned today . We're learning more about how police closed the net around him, including using genealogy websitesJUST WATCHED Sacramento DA: We found needle in the haystack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sacramento DA: We found needle in the haystack 02:10Presidential snubThe White House Correspondents' Association's annual dinner is tomorrow, and for the second year in a row, President Trump is skipping it. He'll hold a rally with his supporters instead.JUST WATCHED The history of the correspondents' dinner Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The history of the correspondents' dinner 01:24TODAY'S QUOTE"He really struggled with thoughts about Meaning, Life, Happiness. He could not go on any longer. He wanted to find peace."A statement from the family of Swedish DJ Avicii , who died last week at 28JUST WATCHED Dance music DJ Avicii dead at 28 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dance music DJ Avicii dead at 28 01:08TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeThe shoes that Michael Jackson used to perform a legendary dance move for the first time on stage are going up for auction. What's the name of the dance move?A. the funky chickenB. the moonwalkC. the electric slideD. the running manTODAY'S NUMBER$119The new annual cost of an Amazon Prime subscription. The change goes into effect May 11 and will apply to renewals beginning June 16.JUST WATCHED Is Amazon a monopoly? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is Amazon a monopoly? 04:14AND FINALLYHot diggity dog