Story highlights Two police officers -- Alyn Beck and Igor Soldo -- were killed on their lunch breakBoth were husbands and fathersA civilian also is killed; his sister says Joseph Wilcox was braveWilcox attempted to confront a shooter in a Walmart storeA community in tears.That's how the mayor of Las Vegas described her city after a husband-and-wife team gunned down two police officers and a civilian.The officers were on their lunch break at a pizza place. They had no time to react.The third victim, a civilian, attempted to confront the couple at a nearby Walmart, and died in the process.A day after the killings, the three were being remembered Monday for their sacrifice and service.Photos: Photos: Shootings in Las Vegas Photos: Photos: Shootings in Las Vegas Shootings in Las Vegas – Police and firefighters on the scene of the shooting at a Las Vegas Walmart, on Sunday, June 8. Two gunmen shot and killed two police officers eating lunch and then killed a third person at the Walmart. The gunmen then killed themselves. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Photos: Shootings in Las Vegas Shootings in Las Vegas – Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department vehicles are parked outside a Las Vegas Cici's Pizza restaurant. Two police officers were shot while they were having lunch Sunday. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Photos: Shootings in Las Vegas Shootings in Las Vegas – Officers Alyn Beck, left, and Igor Soldo were shot while eating lunch. Both were husbands and fathers. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Photos: Shootings in Las Vegas Shootings in Las Vegas – A Las Vegas Metropolitan Police officer monitors the scene. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Photos: Shootings in Las Vegas Shootings in Las Vegas – Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department personnel gather outside the Walmart where one person was shot and killed. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Photos: Shootings in Las Vegas Shootings in Las Vegas – Police cars and personnel gather at the scene. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Photos: Shootings in Las Vegas Shootings in Las Vegas – Police and fire vehicles line the street near the scene. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Photos: Shootings in Las Vegas Shootings in Las Vegas – Police officers move to enter the Walmart. Hide Caption 8 of 8JUST WATCHED Shooters had 'extremist views' toward cops Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shooters had 'extremist views' toward cops 01:45"We're a community in tears here. I will tell you these were wonderful officers," said Las Vegas Mayor Carolyn Goodman.Here's a closer look at those killed:Alyn Beck, 41Officer Beck, 41, joined the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department (LVMPD) in August 2001.His friends say he was a good person, always willing to lend a hand."He was always about service. He was the funnest guy. He was, you know, you think of some people who are good in eulogy only, and Alyn is the absolute opposite of that."Alyn is easy to eulogize because that's all he was, was good," said Tracy Smith, a friend.Beck is survived by his wife and three children.Igor Soldo, 31Officer Soldo joined the police department in April 2006.He attended high school in Lincoln, Nebraska, and worked as a corrections officer before joining the force.Described by family as a good father and a great man, Soldo is survived by his wife and baby.He and Beck were on their lunch break at a CiCi's Pizza when authorities say Jerad and Amanda Miller came into the restaurant and opened fire on the officers at close range."I think you can all imagine if this happened to one of your loved ones what just that impact might be. They're trying to process what is it that has taken place," Sheriff Doug Gillespie said about the victims' families."They have good support but it's going to be a difficult road -- two young families and their fathers are no longer there."Joseph Wilcox, 31After the Millers shot the officers, they fled to a Walmart where Jerad Miller allegedly fired one round and told everyone to get out.Wilcox, who was in the store and who was carrying a concealed weapon, moved to confront the shooter. But he didn't realize Jerad Miller was not alone.Authorities say Amanda Miller shot Wilcox, killing him."Joseph died attempting to protect others. His death is completely senseless," Sheriff Gillespie told reporters.Wilcox's sister, CJ Foster, said her brother was pro-gun and believed guns don't kill people -- people kill people."He did a very brave thing and I'm very proud of him. I'm proud to call him my brother," she said.Jeremy Tanner, a friend, was with Wilcox at the Walmart before the shooting started."Joseph had the option to go left and exit the store to safety, but he instead went into the store and chased after the gunman," he told CNN. "I wanted to tell him: 'Don't do this. Come with me.' But I also felt that he's possibly going to be saving some lives."