If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.The news out of California is truly bad this morning. But don't despair. There are many ways to help those affected by the wildfires . Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. California wildfiresCalifornia's most destructive wildfire is now also its deadliest . The death toll from the Camp Fire in Northern California rose to 42, as the remains of 13 more people were found. With two people killed in Southern California's Woolsey Fire, the statewide death toll stands at 44 . And with about 100 people still missing, fears are strong that the number of dead may rise even more. Most people killed in the Camp Fire died in the town of Paradise, which was destroyed. Harrowing tales of close calls and fiery escapes were shared by survivors. So, what caused these fires? No one's sure yet, but California regulators are investigating two utility companies that reported incidents close in time and location to the start of the Camp and Woolsey fires.2. PoliticsThe midterms were a week ago, but results are still rolling in. Democrats got another big win with Kyrsten Sinema's victory in the Arizona Senate race. Sinema's triumph over Republican Martha McSally gives the Dems a seat the GOP had held for 24 years. And it helps soften the blow of Democrats losing high-profile Senate races in Texas, Tennessee and Missouri.JUST WATCHED Sinema gives tribute to McCain in victory speech Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sinema gives tribute to McCain in victory speech 00:563. AmazonJUST WATCHED See the reported Amazon HQ2 picks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See the reported Amazon HQ2 picks 01:554. Jamal Khashoggi"Tell your boss." This short phrase, reportedly heard in an audio recording of the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, is a reference to Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince, US intel officials believe. If true, it's the strongest evidence yet linking the de facto Saudi leader to Khashoggi's death, The New York Times reports . The Times also says a member of the 15-person "kill team" allegedly sent to Istanbul to assassinate Khashoggi can be heard on the tape making a call in Arabic to say "the deed was done." The Saudis blame rogue operators for Khashoggi's death in the Saudi consulate and have dismissed five high-ranking officials in connection with it. Turkey says he was strangled October 2 as part of a premeditated plan, and his body dismembered.JUST WATCHED NYT: Audio may link Saudi Crown Prince to murder Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NYT: Audio may link Saudi Crown Prince to murder 02:035. Stan LeeBREAKFAST BROWSENew toy in the toy boxYes, the new "Toy Story 4" trailer featured all our favorites, but it's the introduction of a new toy that got us all worked up.Fairy tales do come trueGot $100? Then you've got enough to rent this fairy tale castle in Italy for your dream wedding.Italy castle tzThe robots are comingThe machines aren't just coming for humanity. They're coming for the critters, too. Check out the robots that fly and swim just like animals.JUST WATCHED These robots fly and swim just like animals Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH These robots fly and swim just like animals 01:30Not all heroes wear capesInstead of evacuating as the California wildfires neared his eatery, this restaurant owner made hot meals for more than 1,000 first responders.From the last place you'd expectTributes came in from all over when a Georgia police officer was killed in the line of duty. But no one expected one of the honors to come from a county jailJUST WATCHED Police officer shot, killed in the line of duty Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police officer shot, killed in the line of duty 00:45HAPPENING LATERStarting at the topMichelle Obama's hotly anticipated book, "Becoming," doesn't come out until today, but it's already No. 1 on AmazonJUST WATCHED Obama: Melania turned down my offer for help Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama: Melania turned down my offer for help 02:38Shattering glassThe second installment of " Badass Women of Washington " -- the digital series by CNN's Dana Bash -- is out now. In this episode, she talks with Nancy Pelosi, the former (and future?) Speaker of the House.JUST WATCHED Pelosi: 'I want women to see that you do not get pushed around' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pelosi: 'I want women to see that you do not get pushed around' 08:03TODAY'S NUMBER602That's how much the Dow dropped on Monday. President Trump blamed it on the Democrats, but the real reason is a lot more complicated than that.JUST WATCHED Why Trump is blaming Democrats for the Dow plunge Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Trump is blaming Democrats for the Dow plunge 01:21AND FINALLYGuess they missed the memo