Get '5 things' in your inbox If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN)Get Up to Speed and Out the Door. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Before you head out on the roads or finish packing for your holiday travel, be sure to check the latest weather and traffic forecasts (you'll thank yourself later). Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Stock marketIf you have investments, now is NOT the time to check on them -- if you want to preserve your mental health. Stocks have been a mess. The Dow dropped 552 points yesterday and is 2,500 points off its peak after months of rough seas. In fact, all three major indices have given up their gains on the year. Why the doom and gloom? There are a few concerns: high interest rates, crashing oil prices, stalling economic growth, the fading effects of tax cuts, tariffs and, of course, the US-China trade war. And while your hard-earned money may be taking a hit, remember to spare a thought for the ridiculously rich among us. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos has lost roughly $42 billion since his net worth peaked in September at $168 billion. And Mark Zuckerberg has lost roughly $34 billion from his peak worth in July and is now worth $52 billion.JUST WATCHED JPMorgan strategist: US is not headed for a recession Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH JPMorgan strategist: US is not headed for a recession 02:122. FacebookSpeaking of Mark Zuckerberg, the face of Facebook, in an exclusive interview with CNN Business , defended his company from public criticism and said he won't heed investors' calls to shake up its top brass, adding he has no plans to step down as the company's chairman. "A lot of the criticism around the biggest issues has been fair, but I do think that if we are going to be real, there is this bigger picture as well, which is that we have a different world view than some of the folks who are covering us," Zuckerberg told Laurie Segall. Facebook has been persona non grata as of late following public mishaps and concerning revelations. Most recently, a New York Times investigation suggested the company had attempted to ignore and conceal Russian interference on its platform and hired a media company to discredit activist protesters by linking them to billionaire Democratic donor George Soros.JUST WATCHED Zuckerberg stands his ground during year of crises Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Zuckerberg stands his ground during year of crises 08:35