Story highlights Estella Pyfrom's mobile computer lab is for those who lack computer, Internet accessThe "Brilliant Bus" helps poor students improve their grades, prepare for collegeIt's also giving adults a chance to better themselves, improve their quality of lifeWorking as a guidance counselor five years ago in Palm Beach County, Estella Pyfrom noticed that fewer students had access to a computer after school.The sluggish economy forced many families to prioritize their money and use it for more pressing needs."They needed food. They needed to pay their mortgage or their rent," said Pyfrom, a former teacher. "Some of them lost their cars. So I knew it was a serious problem."Without a computer at home, or reliable transportation to get to a computer, Pyfrom feared that many of these students would get left behind.So she bought a bus, filled it with computers and brought technology to the kids.Her mobile computer lab, Estella's Brilliant Bus , has provided free, computer-based tutoring for thousands of students since 2011."If people don't have some knowledge of technology, they're going to be limited," said Pyfrom, who retired in 2009 and used money from her savings to buy the bus. "It's absolutely essential that they get involved technologically."Pyfrom is determined to help poor children get the same educational opportunities as other children. According to the Institute of the Study of Labor, students who lack access to a home computer are less likely to graduate high school."The digital divide is absolutely real," said Pyfrom, 76. "And it didn't just become a reality. It's been there for years, and it's getting bigger and more important."Estella's Brilliant Bus travels to schools, shelters and community centers throughout Palm Beach County, Florida.Pyfrom's custom-designed bus is outfitted with 17 computer stations that are connected to high-speed Internet via satellite.Emblazoned on its side are the words "Have Knowledge, Will Travel" and "We bring learning to you." The bus travels to schools, shelters and community centers throughout the county."We serve children starting with age 3 all the way through senior citizens, based on what the needs are," Pyfrom said. "We are bringing the learning and the technology to the neighborhoods. They all can benefit from that."Pyfrom and her army of volunteers hold regular classes and tutoring sessions about four days a week. They offer lessons in computer and Internet basics as well as reading, math or science classes that supplement what children are learning in school.Sometimes, the bus simply serves as an open computer lab.The rules on the bus are few and simple. Among them, gum and Facebook are not allowed. Pyfrom takes a no-nonsense approach to her mobile classroom."Excuses don't get the job done," she said. "You do whatever it takes to make things happen. That's the only thing that works."The computers are loaded with educational software, providing interactive exercises that reinforce state-mandated curricula. Children receive their own account login and password, allowing them to continue their work from anywhere they can access the Internet. Users can only advance to the next level in a subject once they reach 90% proficiency in the current one, and the software allows Pyfrom to track their progress.The custom-designed bus is outfitted with 17 computer stations that are connected to high-speed Internet via satellite.For older students, the bus brings GED and college preparatory assistance, anti-bullying and peer mediation classes, and student leadership training.Pyfrom and her team provide about 8,000 hours of instruction to at least 500 children a year. She hopes the extra time will help bring students up to their grade level in reading, vocabulary, math, science and life skills.Freddy and Brianna Rodriguez are two students benefiting from Pyfrom's bus. Adopted from foster care, the siblings struggled with their grades when they entered junior high school."If I didn't have the bus to come to, it'd be hard to get to a computer," said Brianna, 13. "My grades have gotten better. The one-on-one time, it helped me."In working with the students, Pyfrom found that many parents didn't know how to use a computer. Now her bus helps them, too.Photos: The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 Photos: The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 – After Dale Beatty , right, lost his legs in the Iraq war, his community thanked him for his service by helping him build a home. To pay it forward, Beatty co-founded Purple Heart Homes, which has helped build or modify homes for dozens of disabled U.S. veterans. "We wouldn't leave someone behind on the battlefield," Beatty said. "Why would we do it at home?" Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 – For decades, Georges Bwelle watched his father suffer, unable to get the medical attention he needed. Now a doctor, Bwelle travels into the jungles of his native Cameroon nearly every weekend, providing free medical care for those who don't have access to good health care. "To make people laugh, to reduce the pain, that's why I'm doing this," he said. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 – More than 72,000 people in Charlotte, North Carolina, lack access to fresh produce. When Robin Emmons discovered this problem, she took action. "I decided to rip up my whole backyard and make it all a garden for people in need," she said. Since 2008, Emmons has grown more than 26,000 pounds of fruits and vegetables for area residents. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 – Foster children don't often get the things other children do, but Danielle Gletow is trying to help change that. She posts their wishes online so the public can help grant them. "I'm here to be the mom to all these kids who might not feel like they have one," she said. Since 2008, her group has helped grant more than 6,500 wishes in 42 states. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 – Tawanda Jones is using dance to empower the youth of Camden, New Jersey, one of the poorest cities in the country. Through Jones' drill team program, at least 4,000 children have learned discipline, respect and community service -- and all of them have graduated high school. "We need to take back our city and, most importantly, take back our youth," Jones said. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 – For many children fighting cancer, it can be extremely tough to make it to their chemotherapy appointments. But Richard Nares started a group that gives them transportation and support. "No child should miss their cancer treatment due to lack of transportation," said Nares, who lost his son to leukemia in 2000. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 – Kakenya Ntaiya is inspiring change in her native Kenyan village. After becoming the first woman in the village to attend college in the United States, she returned to open the village's first primary school for girls. "Our work is about empowering the girls," Ntaiya said. "They are dreaming of becoming lawyers, teachers, doctors." Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 – Chad Pregracke has made it his life's work to clean up the Mississippi River and other American waterways. Since 1998, about 70,000 volunteers have helped Pregracke remove more than 7 million pounds of garbage from 22 rivers across the country. "Picking up garbage, it's tough, miserable and hot," Pregracke said. "We try to make it fun." Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 – Estella Pyfrom used her life savings to create "Estella's Brilliant Bus," a mobile computer lab that provides tutoring for thousands of low-income students in Palm Beach County, Florida. "It's not just a bus, it's a movement," Pyfrom said. "And we're going to keep making a difference." Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 The top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013 – Laura Stachel created a special "solar suitcase" to help health-care workers deliver babies in more than 20 developing countries. "I really want a world where women can deliver babies safely and with dignity," Stachel said. Hide Caption 10 of 10"They're learning right along with the kids," Pyfrom said. "They don't feel threatened, because what I say to them is, 'If your 4-year-old can use a computer and click a mouse, so can you.' "On the bus, adults can receive online banking tutorials, resume assistance and help searching for jobs and affordable housing.Pyfrom's efforts to help low-income families haven't stopped with her bus. She also partnered with a community nonprofit to help provide meals to 3,000 residents each month. Through that work, she's identified other ways her bus can help struggling neighbors build up technological proficiency necessary in the marketplace."We want to do what we can do in (each) neighborhood to make things better for all," Pyfrom said. "We run into people who really want to better their lifestyles and are without help. We can help them make a big difference in their neighborhoods."To keep up the momentum of her efforts, Pyfrom has continued to pour her savings into maintaining and modifying her bus, so far spending about $1 million, she says.An easy retirement is not something she aspires to.JUST WATCHED The Brilliant Bus is here! Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The Brilliant Bus is here! 02:06"I'm not tired yet. And I don't think I'm going to get tired," she said. "I'm constantly charged up. I look at the faces of the children and I get energized."Pyfrom is determined to see her services expand throughout the state, even the country. She estimates she has enough savings to keep her bus running for another two years, but she hopes to find financial support before she runs out of money."I don't think about what I'm not able to do or not going to be able to do," she said. "I plan for the things that I think I'm going to do, need to do and want to do. And I think most of them are going to happen."We've got to keep rolling. We're going to keep taking the service to the neighborhoods, and we are going to keep making a difference."