Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Transportation Security Administration Officer Gerardo Hernandez, 39, was killed in a shooting at Los Angeles International Airport on Friday, November 1. Paul Ciancia, 23, armed with what police say was an assault rifle and carrying materials expressing anti-government sentiment, opened fire at LAX Terminal 3, killing Hernandez before being chased down. Ciancia has been charged with the murder of a federal officer and commission of violence at an international airport. Hide Caption 1 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – A passenger embraces a TSA screener at Los Angeles International Airport's Terminal 3 after it was reopened on Saturday, November 2 following a shooting. Four other people are recovering from injuries in the shooting. Hide Caption 2 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – TSA Administrator John S. Pistole, left, and Ana Hernandez, wife of slain TSA officer Gerardo Hernandez, prepare for a news conference in Porter Ranch, California on November 2. The slain officer "was a wonderful husband, father, brother, son and friend," his widow said. Hide Caption 3 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Injured traveler Bruce Reith, from Munich, Germany, is helped by two Los Angeles Airport Police officers as he makes his way on crutches to Terminal 3 for departure a day after injuring himself while escaping the shooting. Hide Caption 4 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Workers tear down a temporary partition after Terminal 3 was reopened on November 2, a day after a shooting at LAX. Hide Caption 5 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – A Los Angeles Airport Police officer stands in front of Terminal 3 security screeners after law enforcement officials completed their investigation and prepare to reopen the terminal at LAX on November 2. Hide Caption 6 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Police officers and emergency response officials meet outside Terminal 3 at Los Angeles International Airport after gunshots were reported inside the terminal on November 1. Hide Caption 7 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Transportation Security Administration employees hug outside Terminal 1. Hide Caption 8 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – This photo, from Terminal 3, shows what appears to be a weapon on the ground. Police said a man "pulled an assault rifle out of a bag and began to open fire" Friday, killing one person and injuring others before being shot and taken into custody. Hide Caption 9 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Law enforcement officers gather in Terminal 3 near the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 10 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Passengers sit on a luggage conveyor belt behind check-in kiosks in Terminal 1. Hide Caption 11 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Police check the area around Terminal 1. Hide Caption 12 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Passengers evacuate the airport after the incident, which airport officials said began about 9:30 a.m. The gunfire and the airport's announcement of the incident provoked chaos among travelers, passengers said. Hide Caption 13 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – People hide inside a bathroom stall at the airport after the gunshots were reported. Hide Caption 14 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Thousands of travelers were delayed after the incident closed the airport for hours. Hide Caption 15 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck talks with other responders at the airport Friday. Hide Caption 16 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – A police officer closes a road at the airport. The area around the airport was jammed with cars Friday morning as police shut down access. Hide Caption 17 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Police officers stand guard atop Terminal 3. Hide Caption 18 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Passengers are directed outside Terminal 2. Hide Caption 19 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – A family walks through a tunnel as they leave the airport. Hide Caption 20 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Passengers evacuated from Terminal 1 wait outside the airport. Hide Caption 21 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – "People were running and people (were) getting knocked down. There was luggage everywhere," traveler Alex Neumann said. "Mayhem is the best I can describe it." Hide Caption 22 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – People wait in a terminal after flights were grounded because of the incident. Hide Caption 23 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Passengers wait on the curb after leaving the airport. Hide Caption 24 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – A police officer directs traffic. Hide Caption 25 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – The gunfire reports led to a "ground stop" for arriving planes, said police and the Federal Aviation Administration. Hide Caption 26 of 28Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – A police officer diverts traffic trying to enter the airport. Hide Caption 27 of 28