If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) We wish our Jewish readers a meaningful fast today on Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement and the holiest day of the year.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Impeachment inquiryIf the House of Representatives wants to impeach President Trump, it won't get the White House's help. The White House sent a blistering letter to House leaders saying the Trump administration won't cooperate in the impeachment inquiry, calling the whole thing an illegitimate and unconstitutional effort to overturn the results of the 2016 election. Earlier in the day, the State Department had blocked Gordon Sondland, US ambassador to the European Union, from testifying before Congress about the Ukraine controversy. Sondland is now being subpoenaedThe Trump administration's stance leaves House Speaker Nancy Pelosi with a big decision , says CNN political analyst Stephen Collinson: Take the fight to the courts, where the impeachment drive could get bogged down in months of legal challenges, or move quickly in drafting articles of impeachment and play into Trump's claims that she's running a "kangaroo court."2. TurkeyTurkey said its military will cross the border into northern Syria "shortly." That comes from a tweet sent out early this morning from Turkey's communications director. After President Trump this week agreed to move US troops out of that part of northern Syria, Turkey basically has a green light to attack Kurdish forces, which Turkey considers a threat. Critics on both the political left and right say Trump's decision to abandon the Kurds, who were instrumental in the fight against ISIS, is a betrayal.JUST WATCHED Is Turkey about to massacre Kurds at its border? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is Turkey about to massacre Kurds at its border? 02:333. California power outagesUtility giant Pacific Gas & Electric started shutting off the power early this morning in parts of Northern California in an effort to prevent starting a wildfire. Almost 500,000 customers are in the dark right now. Another 300,000 will lose power later in the day. The electricity could be off for days. Forecasters warn that many parts of Northern California are under extreme fire weather danger, with windy and dry conditions forecast for the region. PG&E equipment started the deadly 2018 Camp Fire, a state investigation found, after a power line touched nearby trees. So, the extreme measure of shutting off the power is being used to try to prevent future blazes.JUST WATCHED Power outages will affect dozens of California counties Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Power outages will affect dozens of California counties 01:264. EcuadorViolent protests have raged for days in the Ecuadorian capital of Quito. It's so bad that the country's President says he's moving the government out of town . President Lenin Moreno announced earlier in the week that government business will be conducted in the southern city of Guayaquil. People have been protesting his plan to end state fuel subsidies. It's unleashed the wrath of labor and transport unions, which have called for a nationwide strike. More than 50 members of the country's military were held hostage by protesters before they were rescued.5. Sexually transmitted diseasesSTDs are on the rise in the US. Cases of gonorrhea, chlamydia and syphilis have all risen for the fifth consecutive year , a new report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says. Possible factors driving this rise include a surge in people getting tested and cases being diagnosed and reported. There's also a decline in people using condoms. The number of antibiotic-resistant gonorrhea cases is also growing. Alaska has the highest number of chlamydia cases, while Mississippi has the highest rates of gonorrhea. Nevada has the highest rates of primary and secondary syphilis.JUST WATCHED 3 STDs reach all-time highs in US, CDC report says Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 3 STDs reach all-time highs in US, CDC report says 01:42THIS JUST IN ...Nobel historyThe Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to a trio of scientists for their work on the development of lithium ion batteries . One of the winners, American John B. Goodenough, is the oldest person to ever be awarded the prize.BREAKFAST BROWSERoom with a viewGoodyear has listed its famous blimp on Airbnb -- but only for three nights.The Village peopleA tour of the world's 50 best bars of 2019 would take you to 26 cities across 21 countries. But the top pick might take you back in time.Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 20. Paradiso, Barcelona, Spain: Giacomo Giannotti's Paradiso is a Mediterranean-style speakeasy, entered through the freezer door of a pastrami bar. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 19. Salmon Guru, Madrid: This salmon has certainly leaped upstream. Madrid's Salmon Guru jumped 28 places this year, earning the title of Highest Climber. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 18. Bar High Five, Tokyo: Japan's best bar, Bar High Five is located in Tokyo's ritzy Ginza neighborhood. It's known for offering classic cocktails with surprising innovation. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 17. Himkok, Oslo: A menu of Nordic-inspired cocktails has taken Himkok up two spots to number 17. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 16. Three Sheets, London: This stripped-down East London venue has just three cocktail sections, hosting three drinks each based on strength and flavor. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 15. Guilhotina, Sao Paulo, Brazil: Bartender-owner Marcio Silva is at the helm of this unpretentious, informal bar which opened back in 2016. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 14. Katana Kitten, New York: A Japanese-style bar in the West Village, Katana Kitten is this year's Best New Opening. Cocktail veterans (L-R) Masahiro Urushido, Greg Boehm and James Tune are behind it. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 13. Carnaval, Lima: Debuting at No.13, Carnaval is this year's Highest New Entry. It has its own ice room, stocked with 20 types of ice designed by an ice chef. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 12. Native, Singapore: This innovative venue experiments with local ingredients such as pandan and laksa leaves in its laboratory before transforming them into unusual but delicious cocktails. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 11. Manhattan, Singapore: The Manhattan Bar is a plush venue within Singapore's Regent Hotel. Its cocktail menu includes, inevitably, a version of the classic Manhattan based around Michter's Single Barrel Rye and house-made cherry brandy. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 10. Licoreria Limantour, Mexico City: A favorite with the international crowd, Mexico City's Licoreria Limantour has been on the World's 50 Best Bars list since 2014. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 9. The Old Man, Hong Kong: Last year's highest new entry, The Old Man is a tiny Ernest Hemingway-inspired venue presided over by head bartender Agung Prabowo. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 8. Atlas, Singapore: Gin specialist Atlas, awarded Best Bar in Asia, is one of six bars from Singapore on this year's list. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 7. Attaboy, New York City: This New York institution has appeared in the 50 Best Bars list all of the six years it's been open. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 6. The Clumsies, Athens: This endearingly named Athens bar takes its moniker from the "generous serving of favorite mistakes" that make up its menu mission statement. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 5. American Bar, London: The 2017 best bar winner, The American Bar at the Savoy was named Legend of the List in 2019. The iconic venue is one part swanky hotel, two parts classic Art Deco and three parts hard work -- all mixed up for more than 125 years. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 4. The NoMad, New York: New York's NoMad Bar aims to emulate a classic NYC tavern. It's one of six New York bars to make the list. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 3. Floreria Atlantico, Bueno Aires: Hidden behind a florist, Floreria Atlantico is a Latin American take on a classic speakeasy. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 2. Connaught Bar, London: At number 2, the Connaught Bar is located in the upscale hotel of the same name in London's wealthy Mayfair district. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: World's 50 best bars in 2019 1. Dante, New York City: This classic Greenwich Village venue first opened 104 years ago as an Italian cafe. Hide Caption 20 of 20Big Apple bummerAlec Baldwin may be a native New Yorker, but even he got pulled in by this classic NYC scamStefani finaleJudging the NBC singing contest and performing her Las Vegas show were just too much. So, Gwen Stefani is leaving "The Voice" behind -- for now.JUST WATCHED Gwen Stefani brings bullied boy onstage during concert Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Gwen Stefani brings bullied boy onstage during concert 01:11TODAY'S QUOTE"Tonight isn't the end; tonight is the beginning."JUST WATCHED Montgomery, Alabama, elects its first black mayor Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Montgomery, Alabama, elects its first black mayor 00:53TODAY'S NUMBER$4.18The average price of regular gas , per gallon, in California. That's the highest level in more than five years.JUST WATCHED Why the US has a huge stash of emergency oil Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why the US has a huge stash of emergency oil 01:36TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Wind and rain to batter the Northeast coast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wind and rain to batter the Northeast coast 01:44AND FINALLYAll fall down