If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Get '5 things' in your inbox(CNN) It looks like the scariest thing about this Halloween may be the weather. Rain will blanket big parts of the country, possibly forcing some neighborhoods to reschedule their trick-or-treating evenings .Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. WildfiresHurricane-force winds are ripping across parts of California, stoking the more than 20 wildfires that have ravaged the state for days. The Getty Fire is still going strong near Los Angeles , the week-old Kincade Fire near San Francisco is not even 45% contained, and several new fires have erupted, including the Easy Fire near the Southern California town of Simi Valley. That is home to the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library, where fire crews have scrambled to create a safe perimeter to keep the blaze at bay. One of their trusty fire prevention methods? Hundreds of ravenous goats that munched brush that would have fueled the approaching fire. About 200,000 Californians are still without power as the fires rage on, and power companies are facing mounting criticism for the way they've handled this latest rash of fire emergencies.Embers fly across a roadway in Jimtown on October 24.Embers fly across a roadway in Jimtown on October 24.Trees burn as the fire engulfs a hillside in Geyserville.Trees burn as the fire engulfs a hillside in Geyserville.A fire whirl whips across dry brush as the Kincade Fire spreads through Sonoma County on October 24.A fire whirl whips across dry brush as the Kincade Fire spreads through Sonoma County on October 24.The sun rises above a smoke-filled valley in Geyserville on October 24.The sun rises above a smoke-filled valley in Geyserville on October 24.Two firefighters discuss a plan while battling the wildfire in Geyserville.Two firefighters discuss a plan while battling the wildfire in Geyserville.Geyserville, about 80 miles north of San Francisco, is among the communities under mandatory evacuation order.Geyserville, about 80 miles north of San Francisco, is among the communities under mandatory evacuation order.A structure continues to burn after the Kincade Fire moved through Geyserville on October 24.A structure continues to burn after the Kincade Fire moved through Geyserville on October 24.Brandon Mani covers his face from the smoke as he walks along Highway 14 in Santa Clarita.Brandon Mani covers his face from the smoke as he walks along Highway 14 in Santa Clarita.A firefighter works the scene of a burned-out home in Santa Clarita on October 24.A firefighter works the scene of a burned-out home in Santa Clarita on October 24.The Kincade Fire burns in the Jimtown community of Sonoma County on October 24.The Kincade Fire burns in the Jimtown community of Sonoma County on October 24.A Los Angeles County firefighter monitors the area as the Tick Fire burns near homes in Canyon Country on October 24.A Los Angeles County firefighter monitors the area as the Tick Fire burns near homes in Canyon Country on October 24.A firefighter sprays water on a burning home in Sonoma County on Thursday, October 24.A firefighter sprays water on a burning home in Sonoma County on Thursday, October 24.A firefighting aircraft intervenes over Sonoma County, California, where the Kincade Fire was burning on October 25.A firefighting aircraft intervenes over Sonoma County, California, where the Kincade Fire was burning on October 25.Orange County firefighters put out remaining hot spots from a brush fire in San Clemente, California, on October 25.Orange County firefighters put out remaining hot spots from a brush fire in San Clemente, California, on October 25.Firefighters hose down a burning house in Agua Dulce, California, on Friday, October 25. It was affected by the Tick Fire, which broke out near Santa Clarita.Firefighters hose down a burning house in Agua Dulce, California, on Friday, October 25. It was affected by the Tick Fire, which broke out near Santa Clarita.A backfire set by firefighters burns along a hillside in Healdsburg.A backfire set by firefighters burns along a hillside in Healdsburg.Sodhi Singh closes up his Chevron station shortly after losing power in Healdsburg on October 26. In an attempt to avoid any more catastrophic wildfires, Pacific Gas & Electric began shutting down the power to about 940,000 customers, citing a historic wind event in northern and central parts of the state.Sodhi Singh closes up his Chevron station shortly after losing power in Healdsburg on October 26. In an attempt to avoid any more catastrophic wildfires, Pacific Gas & Electric began shutting down the power to about 940,000 customers, citing a historic wind event in northern and central parts of the state.A line of fire snakes along a hillside as firefighters light backfires to slow the spread of the Kincade Fire near Geyserville, California, on October 26.A line of fire snakes along a hillside as firefighters light backfires to slow the spread of the Kincade Fire near Geyserville, California, on October 26.A firefighter sets a backfire along a hillside in Healdsburg on Saturday, October 26.A firefighter sets a backfire along a hillside in Healdsburg on Saturday, October 26.A firefighter watches over a structure as the Kincade Fire threatens Chalk Hill Road in Healdsburg.A firefighter watches over a structure as the Kincade Fire threatens Chalk Hill Road in Healdsburg.Firefighters from the Dry Creek Rancheria remove an American flag in Healdsburg.Firefighters from the Dry Creek Rancheria remove an American flag in Healdsburg.The Soda Rock Winery burns in the Kincade Fire.The Soda Rock Winery burns in the Kincade Fire.A team of firefighters put out a smoldering vine in Healdsburg.A team of firefighters put out a smoldering vine in Healdsburg.Flames from the Kincade Fire consume a home in Healdsburg.Flames from the Kincade Fire consume a home in Healdsburg.Vines smolder in a cloud of smoke in Healdsburg.Vines smolder in a cloud of smoke in Healdsburg.A firefighter passes a burning home as the Kincade Fire rages in Healdsburg on October 27.A firefighter passes a burning home as the Kincade Fire rages in Healdsburg on October 27.Dr. Emily Putt, a veterinarian who helps rescue horses from fire zones, comforts a horse as the Kincade Fire burns in Healdsburg on October 27.Dr. Emily Putt, a veterinarian who helps rescue horses from fire zones, comforts a horse as the Kincade Fire burns in Healdsburg on October 27.Firefighters burn fuel around a home in Windsor in an effort to save it from the Kincade Fire.Firefighters burn fuel around a home in Windsor in an effort to save it from the Kincade Fire.Firefighters battling the Kincade Fire spray water at a home in Windsor on Sunday, October 27.Firefighters battling the Kincade Fire spray water at a home in Windsor on Sunday, October 27.Fire crews walk along a blackened ridge as they battle the Getty Fire in Los Angeles.Fire crews walk along a blackened ridge as they battle the Getty Fire in Los Angeles.Smoke from the Kincade Fire hangs over Healdsburg as farm animals graze in a pasture on October 28.Smoke from the Kincade Fire hangs over Healdsburg as farm animals graze in a pasture on October 28.Los Angeles County firefighter Collin Bashara rests near his truck on October 28.Los Angeles County firefighter Collin Bashara rests near his truck on October 28.Thousands of Los Angeles residents were forced to evacuate their homes because of the Getty Fire.Thousands of Los Angeles residents were forced to evacuate their homes because of the Getty Fire.Firefighters work near the Getty Center in Los Angeles on Monday, October 28.Firefighters work near the Getty Center in Los Angeles on Monday, October 28.From left, California Gov. Gavin Newsom, Los Angeles City Councilman Mike Bonin and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti tour a burned home in Brentwood, California, on October 29.From left, California Gov. Gavin Newsom, Los Angeles City Councilman Mike Bonin and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti tour a burned home in Brentwood, California, on October 29.A home between Healdsburg and Windsor is surrounded by charred ground on October 29.A home between Healdsburg and Windsor is surrounded by charred ground on October 29.Inmate firefighters battle the Kincade Fire near Healdsburg, California, on Tuesday, October 29.Inmate firefighters battle the Kincade Fire near Healdsburg, California, on Tuesday, October 29.Laura Horvitz, right, and Robyn Phipps help rescue goats from a ranch near the Reagan Presidential Library.Laura Horvitz, right, and Robyn Phipps help rescue goats from a ranch near the Reagan Presidential Library.Flames approach the backyards of mobile homes in Jurupa Valley, California, on October 30.Flames approach the backyards of mobile homes in Jurupa Valley, California, on October 30.Fabio Losurdo comforts his horse, Smarty, at a ranch in Simi Valley on October 30.Fabio Losurdo comforts his horse, Smarty, at a ranch in Simi Valley on October 30.Firefighters brace themselves for incoming fire retardant as they battle the Easy Fire in Simi Valley.Firefighters brace themselves for incoming fire retardant as they battle the Easy Fire in Simi Valley.An Air Force One from Ronald Reagan's presidency sits on display as the Easy Fire burns near Reagan's presidential library on October 30.An Air Force One from Ronald Reagan's presidency sits on display as the Easy Fire burns near Reagan's presidential library on October 30.Firefighters work to prevent a blaze from spreading to other homes in San Bernardino.Firefighters work to prevent a blaze from spreading to other homes in San Bernardino.Marco Alcaraz uses a garden hose to try to slow down the advance of the Easy Fire in Simi Valley.Marco Alcaraz uses a garden hose to try to slow down the advance of the Easy Fire in Simi Valley.A firefighter sprays down the smoldering remains of a burning home in San Bernardino, California, on Thursday, October 31. It was affected by the Hillside Fire.A firefighter sprays down the smoldering remains of a burning home in San Bernardino, California, on Thursday, October 31. It was affected by the Hillside Fire.The remains of the Louis Robidoux Nature Center keep smoldering after the structure was destroyed by a wildfire in Riverside, California.The remains of the Louis Robidoux Nature Center keep smoldering after the structure was destroyed by a wildfire in Riverside, California.Firefighters watch the progress of a backfire near Somis.Firefighters watch the progress of a backfire near Somis.A long-exposure photo shows the Maria Fire as it races across a hillside in Santa Paula, California, on November 1.A long-exposure photo shows the Maria Fire as it races across a hillside in Santa Paula, California, on November 1.Firefighters spray water onto a tree while fighting the Maria Fire in Ventura County, California, on November 1.Firefighters spray water onto a tree while fighting the Maria Fire in Ventura County, California, on November 1.A firefighter works at containing the Maria Fire in the hills near Ventura, California, on November 1.A firefighter works at containing the Maria Fire in the hills near Ventura, California, on November 1.Firefighters spray water on a backfire while battling the spread of the Maria Fire on Friday, November 1. It is just one of the numerous wildfires in California right now.Firefighters spray water on a backfire while battling the spread of the Maria Fire on Friday, November 1. It is just one of the numerous wildfires in California right now.2. North KoreaNorth Korea fired two "unidentified projectiles" today into the waters between South Korea and Japan , according to the South Korean government. It's not clear what exactly was launched, but both South Korean and Japanese officials are treating them as missiles. If they're right, it would be the first missile test by Pyongyang in nearly a month and the 12th since May. The country said it tested a new type of submarine-launched ballistic missile at the start of this month, just days before the US and North Korea held working-level nuclear talks . Those talks didn't end in any formal agreement. The early October launch was especially concerning because it was the first missile test by North Korea in some time that didn't involve a shorter-range weapon.JUST WATCHED North Korea fires at least one 'unidentified projectile' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North Korea fires at least one 'unidentified projectile' 01:373. Impeachment inquiryToday, the full House is due to vote on formalizing impeachment proceedings against President Trump. The vote was set up by a key House panel's resolution that could shape how the proceedings go . The House Rules Committee measure allows for public impeachment hearings and the release of deposition transcripts, and it outlines the Judiciary Committee's role in considering potential articles of impeachment. House Republicans offered several amendments to the resolution in hopes some pushback would give them more of a say in impeachment hearings, but all of them failed along party lines. As it stands, key Republican figures remain critical of how the impeachment inquiry has unfolded, while Democrats accuse Republicans of doing anything they can to protect Trump.JUST WATCHED WH weighs responses to impeachment as House vote nears Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH WH weighs responses to impeachment as House vote nears 01:404. Auto industryThere's been a rush of wheeling and dealing among some major car companies in the last few days. Fiat Chrysler and Peugeot owner PSA Group agreed to a blockbuster merger early this morning that would create a new trans-Atlantic auto-making giant with roughly 410,000 employees and combined revenues of $190 billion. Meanwhile, Ford has reached a tentative labor agreement with the United Auto Workers union. The quick deal was an obvious attempt to avoid a repeat of the painful, expensive strike that crippled GM for weeks. That strike ended earlier this week, and the fallout has put other auto companies on the defensive in labor negotiations.JUST WATCHED The Ford Shelby GT500 is track ready but road friendly Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The Ford Shelby GT500 is track ready but road friendly 01:585. FacebookFacebook may be facing some serious scrutiny about its place in the political conversation, but that's not hurting its bottom line. During an earnings call, the company's top brass revealed that third quarter growth beat analyst expectations, with revenue and stock value both enjoying a big rise. CEO Mark Zuckerberg also used the call to defend Facebook's decision to keep running political ads on its platform. He argued that transparency around these ads is more important than banning them outright. But as this call was going down, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey announced his platform will go a different route and stop accepting political ads , saying the impact of political messages "should be earned, not bought."JUST WATCHED Twitter to ban all political ads ahead of 2020 election Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Twitter to ban all political ads ahead of 2020 election 02:20BREAKFAST BROWSEThe Washington Nationals have won the World Series for the first time in franchise historyIf you like statistical anomalies (and what baseball fan doesn't), you probably loved this seriesJUST WATCHED Washington Nationals clinch first World Series Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Washington Nationals clinch first World Series 01:20Swearing may improve your workoutsThese are healthy ways to spend your extra hour of Daylight Saving TimeJUST WATCHED Why we have Daylight Saving Time Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why we have Daylight Saving Time 01:32A park in Arizona is looking for a stolen, 1-ton boulderTODAY'S NUMBER0The number of wins by the home team in this year's seven-game World Series between the Washington Nationals and the Houston Astros. (Three games were played in Washington, and four were played in Houston.) That has never happened before in any best-of-seven series in any major American sport, ever. See, we told you the stats were cool!Photos: Nationals win first World Series title The Washington Nationals celebrate after winning the World Series on Wednesday, October 30. The Nationals defeated the Houston Astros 6-2 to win Game 7 and their first title in franchise history. Hide Caption 1 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Washington closer Daniel Hudson celebrates after getting the final out. Hide Caption 2 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Nationals left fielder Juan Soto hugs catcher Kurt Suzuki during the postgame celebrations. Hide Caption 3 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Nationals manager Dave Martinez raises the trophy. Hide Caption 4 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Houston shortstop Carlos Correa reacts in the dugout after the loss. Hide Caption 5 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Washington catcher Yan Gomes celebrates after Michael Brantley struck out to end the game. Hide Caption 6 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title An Astros fan watches as her team trailed in the eighth inning. The home team lost all seven games of the series. Hide Caption 7 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Washington's Howie Kendrick is congratulated by teammate Juan Soto after his home run gave the Nationals a 3-2 lead in the seventh inning. Hide Caption 8 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Kendrick connects on his seventh-inning home run. Teammate Anthony Rendon hit a solo home run earlier in the inning to put the Nationals on the board. Hide Caption 9 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Washington second baseman Asdrubal Cabrera collides with Jake Marisnick as he turns a double play in Game 7. Hide Caption 10 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Correa celebrates his RBI single that gave the Astros a 2-0 lead in Game 7. Hide Caption 11 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Soto reacts after striking out in the fifth inning. Hide Caption 12 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Houston starter Zack Greinke pitched into the seventh inning and allowed just two runs and one run. Hide Caption 13 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Washington starter Max Scherzer reacts after allowing a solo home run to Yuli Gurriel in the second inning of Game 7. Hide Caption 14 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Washington third baseman Anthony Rendon is congratulated by Juan Soto after Rendon hit a two-run home run in Game 6 on Tuesday, October 29. Rendon had 5 RBIs in the Nationals' 7-2 victory. Hide Caption 15 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Washington's Adam Eaton is hit by a pitch late in Game 6. Hide Caption 16 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Washington manager Dave Martinez argues with umpire Gary Cederstrom as he is ejected in Game 6. Martinez was upset when Trea Turner was called out for runner interference. Hide Caption 17 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title The controversial play came as Turner was running to first to beat a groundout. Houston first baseman Yuli Gurriel lost his glove and was unable to make the catch. The umpire said Turner interfered with Gurriel. The Nationals were irate. Hide Caption 18 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Washington starter Stephen Strasburg pitched into the ninth inning of Game 6, allowing only two runs and five hits. He also had seven strikeouts as he won his second game of the World Series. He was later named World Series MVP. Hide Caption 19 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Soto is congratulated by Eaton after hitting a home run to give the Nationals the lead in Game 6. Hide Caption 20 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Soto carried his bat toward first base and dropped it after his home run in Game 6. He was mimicking Astros player Alex Bregman, who did it earlier in the game. Hide Caption 21 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title A scoreboard in Houston shows the Astros one win away from the title. Hide Caption 22 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Bregman is congratulated in the dugout after hitting a home run in the first inning of Game 6. Hide Caption 23 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Fans try to catch Bregman's home run in Game 6. Hide Caption 24 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Astros starter Justin Verlander delivers a pitch in the first inning of Game 6. Verlander, one of the most dominant pitchers of his generation, fell to 0-6 in seven World Series starts. Hide Caption 25 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Washington players react in the dugout during the ninth inning of Game 5. The Nationals lost 7-1 to fall behind three games to two. They lost all three of their home games, scoring only one run in each. Hide Caption 26 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Washington's Victor Robles reacts after striking out during the seventh inning of Game 5. Hide Caption 27 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Nationals fan Jeff Adams, with two beers in hand, lets a home-run ball hit him in the chest during Game 5. The home run was hit by Houston's Yordan Alvarez and gave the Astros a 2-0 lead in the second inning. Adams' sacrifice went viral, and Bud Light gave him tickets to Game 6 in Houston. Hide Caption 28 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Houston ace Gerrit Cole lost Game 1, but he rebounded with a big performance in Game 5. Cole allowed only three hits and one run over seven innings. He also struck out nine batters. Hide Caption 29 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title US President Donald Trump attended Game 5 in Washington. He received some cheers as he appeared on the video screen, but he was also booed loudly. There were later chants of "lock him up." Hide Caption 30 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Alex Bregman's grand slam capped off the Astros' 8-1 victory in Game 4. He also had an RBI single that opened the scoring in the first inning. Hide Caption 31 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Houston catcher Robinson Chirinos slides for a foul ball during Game 4, but he was unable to make the catch. Hide Caption 32 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Houston closer Roberto Osuna celebrates after getting the final out in the Astros' 4-1 victory in Game 3. Hide Caption 33 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Houston reliever Will Harris delivers a pitch in Game 3. Hide Caption 34 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Nationals fans cheer during Game 3. It was the first World Series game in Washington since 1924. The Nationals didn't exist then. Hide Caption 35 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Nationals first baseman Ryan Zimmerman reacts after nearly being hit by a pitch during Game 3. Hide Caption 36 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Houston manager A.J. Hinch, left, and Washington manager Dave Martinez embrace each other prior to Game 3. Hide Caption 37 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title An overview of Nationals Park before it hosted its first World Series game. Hide Caption 38 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Astros fans react to a Washington home run during the Nationals' 12-3 beatdown in Game 2. Houston lost the first two games at home. Hide Caption 39 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Washington catcher Kurt Suzuki was one of the heroes of Game 2, breaking a 2-2 tie with a solo home run in the seventh inning. The Nationals took off after that, adding nine more runs. Hide Caption 40 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Houston pitcher Justin Verlander dives to the ground and tries to make a throw to first, but he hit his leg instead. Hide Caption 41 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title World champion gymnast Simone Biles performs a flip before throwing out the first pitch for Game 2. Hide Caption 42 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Washington outfielders Victor Robles, Adam Eaton and Juan Soto celebrate their 5-4 victory in Game 1. Hide Caption 43 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Eaton crashes into the wall as he tries to make a catch in Game 1. Hide Caption 44 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Soto hits a solo home run to in the fourth inning of Game 1. He finished the game with three RBIs. Hide Caption 45 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title Gerrit Cole delivers the first pitch of the series. Hide Caption 46 of 47 Photos: Nationals win first World Series title This was the second World Series in three years for Houston. The Astros won the championship in 2017. Hide Caption 47 of 47TODAY'S QUOTE"I wish I had known sooner that the persistent stomach pain I experienced before my diagnosis was a symptom of pancreatic cancer.""Jeopardy!" host Alex Trebeck, in a new PSA about pancreatic cancer . The TV icon announced his stage 4 diagnosis in March.JUST WATCHED Alex Trebek opens up about his cancer fight Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Alex Trebek opens up about his cancer fight 01:17TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Strong winds will impact both coasts this Halloween Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Strong winds will impact both coasts this Halloween 02:06AND FINALLYHappy Halloween!Keep this spooky science experiment in mind for next year's festivities. You'll be the most popular (and messiest?) porch on the block. ( Click here to view .)Correction: An earlier version of this story misstated the name of the auto maker that was crippled for weeks by a strike. It was GM.