Story highlights Boy, 4, makes it out of the wreckage, but most of family didn't get out"My husband is a survivor," says Barbara Welsh''I can hear them tapping underneath and yelling at us," a caller tells 911La Rae deQuilettes prays her husband has found an air pocket amid the debrisThe rain-soaked ground in Washington's Cascade Mountains offered little warning before it gave way, dumping a wall of mud onto the towns of Oso and Darrington, an hour's drive north of Seattle.With the official death toll at 16, eight more bodies located but not recovered, and as many as 176 other people unaccounted for in the landslide that struck Saturday, crews were digging through debris up to 20-feet deep to find survivors.As the search goes on, stories of those who escaped and those who are searching have begun to emerge:'I can hear them tapping underneath'It was a 911 call at about 10:45 a.m. Saturday that alerted authorities to a problem on State Route 530, a two-lane road that connects rural mountain communities."It is really flooding bad," the caller said. "There's a roof of a house on the road."Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – President Obama speaks to first responders, recovery workers and community members on Tuesday, April 22, at the scene of the deadly landslide that devastated Oso, Washington, one month before. The landslide crossed the North Fork of the Stillaguamish River and caused multiple deaths and massive damage. Hide Caption 1 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – An excavator clears a drainage channel on Wednesday, April 2. Hide Caption 2 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – This satellite image taken on Monday, March 31, shows the path of the landslide. Hide Caption 3 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Workers cut a tree next to a possible victim on Sunday, March 30. Hide Caption 4 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue teams use a path of plywood to walk through a muddy field in Arlington, Washington, on March 30. Hide Caption 5 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Tryon, a rescue dog muddied from the day's work, stands with his handler March 30 near the west side of the landslide. Hide Caption 6 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Rescue workers dig through mud and debris near Darrington, Washington, on Saturday, March 29. Hide Caption 7 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Mailboxes are seen in floodwater March 29 near Darrington. Hide Caption 8 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Searchers in Oso pause for a moment of silence on Saturday, March 29. It was observed at 10:37 a.m., exactly one week after the landslide tore through the small community. Hide Caption 9 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue personnel attend a moment of silence at the fire house in Darrington. Hide Caption 10 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Ralph Jones helps provide shelter for Brooke Odenius, right, Klarissa Calviste and their baby daughters during the moment of silence at the fire house in Darrington. Hide Caption 11 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Staff Sgt. Jonathon Hernas of the Air National Guard carefully makes his way across debris and mud while searching for missing people March 29 in Oso. Hide Caption 12 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Air National Guard members look out at the hill where the landslide originated while they search through debris March 29 in Oso. Hide Caption 13 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Heavy machinery is used to move debris as members of the Air National Guard search for victims on March 29. Hide Caption 14 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue workers wade through water covering a highway near Darrington on Thursday, March 27. The landslide left buildings covered in up to 40 feet of mud. Hide Caption 15 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A searcher walks near a massive pile of debris in Oso on March 27. Hide Caption 16 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The muddied waters of the North Fork of the Stillaguamish River mix with the cleaner flow of the river's South Fork on March 27. Hide Caption 17 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Emergency vehicles fill State Route 530 leading to the scene of the landslide in Oso on Wednesday, March 26. Hide Caption 18 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Washington Gov. Jay Inslee speaks on the phone with a victim's family member as he flies to the Snohomish County Emergency Operations Center in Everett on March 26. Hide Caption 19 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue workers look through debris on March 26. Hide Caption 20 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Teresa Welter cries during a candlelight vigil in Arlington on Tuesday, March 25. Hide Caption 21 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The roof of a house sits among debris as emergency personnel continue to look for survivors on March 25. Hide Caption 22 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue workers use dogs to look for survivors on March 25. Hide Caption 23 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A boot is found among the debris on March 25. Hide Caption 24 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A search-and-rescue worker looks for survivors on March 25. Hide Caption 25 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Chaplains watch as crews clear debris from State Route 530 in Oso on March 25. Hide Caption 26 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The remains of the massive landslide are seen on Monday, March 24. The landslide blocked the highway and the Stillaguamish River. Hide Caption 27 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A King County Sheriff's Office helicopter lowers a rescue worker on March 24. Hide Caption 28 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A search-and-rescue team carries the body of a victim on March 24. Hide Caption 29 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Volunteers help out with the search in Oso on March 24. Hide Caption 30 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Snohomish County Executive John Lovick wipes a tear during a briefing in downtown Arlington on March 24. Hide Caption 31 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Natalie Reed, right, and her 5-year-old daughter, Deja, attend a prayer service at Arlington United Church on March 24 for those affected by the landslide. Hide Caption 32 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – An intact house sits at the edge of the landslide on March 24. Hide Caption 33 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The Langston family watches an online news clip about the landslide on Sunday, March 23, while they stay at a temporary Red Cross shelter in Darrington. The family's home was flooded after the landslide blocked the Stillaguamish River. Hide Caption 34 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A destroyed home is stranded atop mud and debris on State Route 530 near Oso on March 23. Hide Caption 35 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Downed power lines and parts of a destroyed house can be seen in the debris blocking the road near Oso on March 23. Hide Caption 36 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Gov. Jay Inslee, right, comforts Barbara Welsh after a news conference March 23 outside the Arlington Police Department. Welsh's husband, Bill, was among the scores of people listed as missing immediately after the disaster. Hide Caption 37 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Emergency workers arrive at the scene of the landslide on Saturday, March 22. Hide Caption 38 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Groundwater saturation, tied to heavy rainfall in the area over the past month, was blamed for the landslide. Hide Caption 39 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The landslide cut off the small town of Darrington and prompted an evacuation notice for fear of a potentially "catastrophic flood event," authorities said. Hide Caption 40 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The first Washington State Patrol trooper arrives on the scene on March 22, according to the patrol's Twitter feed. Hide Caption 41 of 41JUST WATCHED Response to landslide is 'very humbling' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Response to landslide is 'very humbling' 01:46JUST WATCHED Rescuer: Houses exploded from the mud Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rescuer: Houses exploded from the mud 03:52JUST WATCHED 911 caller: I can hear family tapping Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 911 caller: I can hear family tapping 00:53JUST WATCHED Witness: We dug for families ourselves Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Witness: We dug for families ourselves 03:21Then came another call. And another.Michael Landon told a 911 dispatcher that his neighbor's house and a house on the other side of it were gone, and he was trying to find survivors."I am standing in the area now, and I can hear them tapping underneath and yelling at us," he told the dispatcher. Asked how many people he could hear, Landon said two. "There should be three people in this house," he said. "We are trying to find the other."Other callers appeared to be struggling to understand what had happened."Everything is gone, the houses are gone!" a woman screamed into the telephone. "What happened? Can you tell me what happened?"The dispatcher's answer: "Landslide."'Nobody else was able to get out'Four-year-old Jacob Spillers was in an upstairs room in his Oso house when the mudslide turned it into wreckage. He got out.His mother was at work when the wall of earth shifted. The mountain of debris it left behind blocked her from reaching her family.Jacob's father and three half-siblings apparently had not made it out of the house."Jacob told me he got out when nobody else was able to get out," said Jose Mangual, father of one of the children who hadn't escaped.Family was planning to turn property into cemeteryNichole Rivera last heard from her daughter, Delaney Webb, on Saturday morning through a Facebook posting.Her daughter and her daughter's fiance were staying at the home of Rivera's parents. The couple had planned to wed there in August.When she couldn't reach them by telephone, Rivera flew from her home in suburban Houston to Washington state to find answers.But proximity didn't help.As the hours ticked by, Rivera said she had little reason to believe they were still alive. "If you've seen the maps, and you've seen the extent of the devastation, and the consistency of the mud, I can tell you with great soundness they're not going to find my parents, or daughter, or her fiance," she told CNN. "I really feel that they're gone."Rivera's aunt, Debbie Satterlee, was still coming to terms with the possibility that her brother, sister-in-law and niece might never be found amid the mud and wreckage -- all that was left of the property where Rivera's parents had once planned to put a family cemetery plot."It would be great to have a body," Rivera said "But if we can't we can't, they're in the right spot."Mother of four praying husband found air pocketAt first, La Rae deQuilettes didn't worry when her husband, an electrician, didn't return home Saturday.Ron was just working late, she told herself.He had sent his wife of 31 years a text message that morning, saying he had arrived at the job.But by early Sunday, when he still hadn't returned to their home in suburban Seattle, she realized her husband had been working where the landslide had struck."It's a living nightmare," she said.She was trying to keep it together for their four children, praying that her husband had found an air pocket or was somewhere waiting for rescuers."He's a fighter," she said. "He's tall and strong. He has a heart in him like there's no tomorrow."Police, she said, had told her that the couple who hired her husband were also among the missing.Body of Navy officer found, his wife is still missingThe waiting ended Tuesday for the family of U.S. Navy Cmdr. John Regelbrugge, 49, whose body and that of his dog were found by his brothers.His wife, Kris, was still missing."They were both home when the slide hit, but they haven't found her yet," said his sister-in-law, Jackie LeightonRegelbrugge's three sons serve in the U.S. military. Two are involved in the search, and the third was making his way home from abroad to join them.Vietnam vet's son holds out hopeBarbara Welsh last saw her husband, Bill, early Saturday as he was leaving to help someone in Oso install a water tank."My husband is a survivor, and I believe in him," Welsh said of the Vietnam veteran to whom she has been married for 43 years. "And that's all you can do -- is keep believing."Welsh's firefighter son, Wayne, was basing his hopes that his father had survived on what he has learned on the job. "It's the knowledge you get from the structure," he said. "People can last a long time out there."He was touched by the number of people helping in the search. "I've just been down here at the fire station and seen all the volunteers come out of the woodwork," he said.It has given his family hope, he said. They need that right now.