Story highlights Official death toll rises to 17, officials sayThat figure should rise "very much" Friday, official saysHouses "look like they've been put in a blender," fire commander saysRains are possible, if not likely, in the area for the next week -- at leastSlogging through sometimes waist-deep mud, rescuers returned to the "unreal" scene of a deadly Cascade Mountain landslide Thursday with the grim expectation that more bodies waited underneath them.Later that day, medical examiners added one more death to the official toll, bringing it to 17.Saturday's collapse dragged several homes downhill with it, scattering their contents among hundreds of acres of earth and smashed trees."Anything that anyone would have in a neighborhood is now strewn out here," said Steve Mason, a Snohomish County fire battalion chief. "... Some (houses) look like they've been put in a blender and dropped on the ground, so you have basically a big pile of debris."The landslide near Oso, about 60 miles northeast of Seattle, has turned many lives upside down and cost far too many as well.JUST WATCHED Chief: Devastation must be seen in person Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chief: Devastation must be seen in person 02:24JUST WATCHED Race to save lives in Washington landslide Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Race to save lives in Washington landslide 05:17Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – President Obama speaks to first responders, recovery workers and community members on Tuesday, April 22, at the scene of the deadly landslide that devastated Oso, Washington, one month before. The landslide crossed the North Fork of the Stillaguamish River and caused multiple deaths and massive damage. Hide Caption 1 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – An excavator clears a drainage channel on Wednesday, April 2. Hide Caption 2 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – This satellite image taken on Monday, March 31, shows the path of the landslide. Hide Caption 3 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Workers cut a tree next to a possible victim on Sunday, March 30. Hide Caption 4 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue teams use a path of plywood to walk through a muddy field in Arlington, Washington, on March 30. Hide Caption 5 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Tryon, a rescue dog muddied from the day's work, stands with his handler March 30 near the west side of the landslide. Hide Caption 6 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Rescue workers dig through mud and debris near Darrington, Washington, on Saturday, March 29. Hide Caption 7 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Mailboxes are seen in floodwater March 29 near Darrington. Hide Caption 8 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Searchers in Oso pause for a moment of silence on Saturday, March 29. It was observed at 10:37 a.m., exactly one week after the landslide tore through the small community. Hide Caption 9 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue personnel attend a moment of silence at the fire house in Darrington. Hide Caption 10 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Ralph Jones helps provide shelter for Brooke Odenius, right, Klarissa Calviste and their baby daughters during the moment of silence at the fire house in Darrington. Hide Caption 11 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Staff Sgt. Jonathon Hernas of the Air National Guard carefully makes his way across debris and mud while searching for missing people March 29 in Oso. Hide Caption 12 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Air National Guard members look out at the hill where the landslide originated while they search through debris March 29 in Oso. Hide Caption 13 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Heavy machinery is used to move debris as members of the Air National Guard search for victims on March 29. Hide Caption 14 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue workers wade through water covering a highway near Darrington on Thursday, March 27. The landslide left buildings covered in up to 40 feet of mud. Hide Caption 15 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A searcher walks near a massive pile of debris in Oso on March 27. Hide Caption 16 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The muddied waters of the North Fork of the Stillaguamish River mix with the cleaner flow of the river's South Fork on March 27. Hide Caption 17 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Emergency vehicles fill State Route 530 leading to the scene of the landslide in Oso on Wednesday, March 26. Hide Caption 18 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Washington Gov. Jay Inslee speaks on the phone with a victim's family member as he flies to the Snohomish County Emergency Operations Center in Everett on March 26. Hide Caption 19 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue workers look through debris on March 26. Hide Caption 20 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Teresa Welter cries during a candlelight vigil in Arlington on Tuesday, March 25. Hide Caption 21 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The roof of a house sits among debris as emergency personnel continue to look for survivors on March 25. Hide Caption 22 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue workers use dogs to look for survivors on March 25. Hide Caption 23 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A boot is found among the debris on March 25. Hide Caption 24 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A search-and-rescue worker looks for survivors on March 25. Hide Caption 25 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Chaplains watch as crews clear debris from State Route 530 in Oso on March 25. Hide Caption 26 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The remains of the massive landslide are seen on Monday, March 24. The landslide blocked the highway and the Stillaguamish River. Hide Caption 27 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A King County Sheriff's Office helicopter lowers a rescue worker on March 24. Hide Caption 28 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A search-and-rescue team carries the body of a victim on March 24. Hide Caption 29 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Volunteers help out with the search in Oso on March 24. Hide Caption 30 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Snohomish County Executive John Lovick wipes a tear during a briefing in downtown Arlington on March 24. Hide Caption 31 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Natalie Reed, right, and her 5-year-old daughter, Deja, attend a prayer service at Arlington United Church on March 24 for those affected by the landslide. Hide Caption 32 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – An intact house sits at the edge of the landslide on March 24. Hide Caption 33 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The Langston family watches an online news clip about the landslide on Sunday, March 23, while they stay at a temporary Red Cross shelter in Darrington. The family's home was flooded after the landslide blocked the Stillaguamish River. Hide Caption 34 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A destroyed home is stranded atop mud and debris on State Route 530 near Oso on March 23. Hide Caption 35 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Downed power lines and parts of a destroyed house can be seen in the debris blocking the road near Oso on March 23. Hide Caption 36 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Gov. Jay Inslee, right, comforts Barbara Welsh after a news conference March 23 outside the Arlington Police Department. Welsh's husband, Bill, was among the scores of people listed as missing immediately after the disaster. Hide Caption 37 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Emergency workers arrive at the scene of the landslide on Saturday, March 22. Hide Caption 38 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Groundwater saturation, tied to heavy rainfall in the area over the past month, was blamed for the landslide. Hide Caption 39 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The landslide cut off the small town of Darrington and prompted an evacuation notice for fear of a potentially "catastrophic flood event," authorities said. Hide Caption 40 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The first Washington State Patrol trooper arrives on the scene on March 22, according to the patrol's Twitter feed. Hide Caption 41 of 41JUST WATCHED See 4-year-old pulled from landslide Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See 4-year-old pulled from landslide 01:03District Chief Travis Hots said that at least seven more bodies that have been found won't be added to the count until medical examiners can identify them."That number is going to likely change very, very much (Friday) morning," Hots said.About 90 remained unaccounted for Thursday as rescuers dug into the ground with chainsaws, pumps and their hands in hopes of finding survivors -- or least bringing solace to family members by finding remains. That figure was the same as it was on Wednesday, though it, too, could change."Sometimes it takes several hours to get somebody out of an area," Hots said. When a body is extracted, "You can almost hear a pin drop out there. You see seasoned veterans in this business, they start to tear up. Their eyes get glossy."No survivors have been found for days, but this still isn't a recovery operation. Rescuers are using small excavators, shovels and their hands -- not heavy machinery -- in areas where a survivor could be."As far as I'm concerned, we're still in rescue mode," Hots said Thursday evening. "I haven't lost hope yet ... That chance is very slim, but we haven't given up yet."While some families cling to that hope, others -- like Rae Smith, whose daughter Summer Raffo was driving through the area when the slide hit -- are in mourning."My heart is broken. It's broken," Rae Smith said.Pointing out homes on a map, volunteer rescuer Peter Selvig noted the seemingly random nature of the fatalities."This guy lived and his wife died ... we were on the school board together for about 30 years," Selvig said.More rain made the mud worse Thursday, slowing the search, rescuers reported.Senior Airman Charlotte Gibson -- part of an Air National Guard squadron assisting the search -- said rescuers "fall in about waist-deep in some areas," knee-deep in others."Just walking through it, it's almost impossible," Gibson said.And as bad as the conditions are, the scale of the devastation is worse. Master Sgt. Chris Martin told reporters, "I don't think anything could prepare you for what you see out there."Workers worked Thursday to build an east-west emergency road to reconnect both sides of the landslide, along with pathways of plywood and logs to make it easier to get people and equipment into the search zone. Washington State Patrol spokesman Bob Calkins said those crews and those looking for victims had a productive day Thursday."The rescuers and the road-builders seem to be hitting their stride now," said Calkins. "We're several days into this, they are starting to get a rhythm."That doesn't mean they're close to done, or that the job is easy. Mason noted that the mud also holds the remains of septic systems, requiring searchers to wash thoroughly at the end of their shifts. And the collapse cut off the Stillaguamish River, causing the water to back up into what's now a small lake, he said."You have homes on this side that are now islands," he said. On another side, "Cars are under water."JUST WATCHED Response to landslide is 'very humbling' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Response to landslide is 'very humbling' 01:46JUST WATCHED Searcher: 'It's no fun finding bodies' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Searcher: 'It's no fun finding bodies' 01:41JUST WATCHED Mudslide: Search for the missing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mudslide: Search for the missing 07:19JUST WATCHED Family finds dog amid landslide rubble Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Family finds dog amid landslide rubble 01:32JUST WATCHED Desperate search for landslide survivors Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Desperate search for landslide survivors 02:11The area affected in the most recent calamity has been hit before, in 1951, 1967, 1988 and 2006. Daniel Miller, a geomorphologist who co-wrote a report in 1999 for the Army Corps of Engineers that looked at options to reduce sediments from area landslides, said that none of these events resulted in deaths, though at least the most recent one damaged houses.This history, along with erosion from Stillaguamish River and worries about overlogging, prompted some mitigation and other efforts. A 2010 plan identified the area swept away as one of several "hot spots," John Pennington, Snohomish County's emergency management director, told reporters Wednesday.The county had been saturated by "amazing" rains for weeks on end that made the ground even less stable, Pennington added. Then there was a small, recent earthquake that may or may not have shaken things up more.But he said no one anticipated an event of the scale of what happened Saturday morning: "Sometimes, big events just happen." And he said residents knew the area was "landslide-prone" -- an assertion one of them challenged."Nobody ever told us that there were geology reports," Robin Youngblood told CNN's Anderson Cooper. "... This is criminal, as far as I'm concerned."Determining whether the human toll from this disaster could have been abated is a key question, but one best answered another day, Gov. Jay Inslee has said. For now, the focus is on the ground -- and in the air -- scouring through the rubble.And once again, Mother Nature is making things complicated. While Snohomish County reported late Thursday afternoon that water levels on one side of the slide had fallen two feet -- a "big help for rescuers," the county tweeted -- there's the reality of yet more rain and all the perils and complications that brings.The National Weather Service's forecast calls for more rain Friday and beyond; in fact, there's a chance if not an all but guarantee of showers for the next full week, at least.For that reason, rescuers are keeping an eye on the weather even as they sift through silt, wood and rubble, according to Snohomish County Public Works Director Steve Thompson."Right now there's no risk of further slides, but we're watching the rain," Thompson said.