Story highlights "We're just speculating," says veteran American Airlines pilot John TestrakeExperts conjecture that pilot or crew may have been bent on suicidal destructionTermination of plane's transponder leads some to think a hijacking may have occurredThe bizarre theories includes meteors, remote islands, military shoot-downIt's been more than 12 days since Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 went missing from radar screens, and hard facts about its fate remain in short supply.To fill the vacuum, experts and amateurs have been conjuring and sharing theories about what may have caused the commercial airliner carrying 227 passengers and 12 crew members to seemingly disappear.Here are some of the leading theories:SPECULATION: PILOT HEROThe evidence for it:JUST WATCHED Merchant ship to reach debris site first? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Merchant ship to reach debris site first? 02:17JUST WATCHED Malaysia to aid in debris search Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Malaysia to aid in debris search 01:20JUST WATCHED 'Credible' debris found in Indian Ocean Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Credible' debris found in Indian Ocean 02:09Australia search Malaysia map Diamantina Trench search areaPilot Chris Goodfellow, in a posting published by Wired Magazine , suggests a simple scenario in which a wheel of the heavily loaded plane overheated as it lumbered toward takeoff from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia."Yes, this happens with underinflated tires," he wrote, adding that the tire may have smoldered initially and not caught fire until some time into the flight.Once he became aware of the fire, pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah would have turned left toward the closest, safest airport -- Langkawi International Airport , a 13,000-foot airstrip that has an approach over water, he said."The captain did not turn back to Kuala Lumpur because he knew he had 8,000-foot ridges to cross," Goodfellow wrote. "He knew the terrain was friendlier toward Langkawi, which was also closer."The loss of the jet's transponders and communications could be expected in a fire, and a pilot's first response would be to pull the main buses -- conductors carrying a computer system's data and control signals -- "and restore circuits one by one until you have isolated the bad one," he said.If the buses were pulled, "the plane would go silent. It probably was a serious event and the flight crew was occupied with controlling the plane and trying to fight the fire. Aviate, navigate, and lastly, communicate is the mantra in such situations."He said radar reports that the plane ascended to 45,000 feet were unreliable. And, even if true, they are not necessarily damning. The pilot might have been seeking to quell the fire by going to an altitude with less oxygen, he said.A reported rapid descent could have resulted from a stall at such a height, above the plane's limit, followed by a recovery at 25,000 feet. "The pilot may even have been diving to extinguish flames," he said. "But going to 45,000 feet in a hijack scenario doesn't make any good sense to me."Goodfellow speculated that smoke may have incapacitated the pilots and crew, leaving the plane to continue on autopilot until it ran out of fuel or the fire caused it to crash. "You will find it along that route -- looking elsewhere is pointless," he concluded.There is precedent for that. In 1999, a private jet carrying golfer Payne Stewart and five others crashed after apparently losing cabin pressure "for undetermined reasons" after takeoff from Florida, the National Transportation Safety Board found.Fighter pilots were sent up to intercept Stewart's plane after controllers lost contact with it, and they reported its cockpit and cabin windows were frosted over.The plane flew more than halfway across the United States, apparently on autopilot, until it crashed in a South Dakota field.The evidence against it:Jeff Wise, an aviation journalist for slate.com and author of "Extreme Fear," was unpersuaded on the tire fire/Langkawi landing theory for Flight 370. The pilot, who had been slated to fly to Beijing, did not enter the airline code for Langkawi as a destination in the jet's navigation system, he said.And the change in course to a different destination was put into the computer that controlled the plane's navigation at least 12 minutes before the co-pilot said good night -- "in very calm tones" -- to air traffic controllers, he told CNN."So the change in course was not due to something that happened spontaneously, it wasn't a spontaneous reaction to some emergency in the cockpit," he said. "It had been planned out."And the jet continued to navigate after it passed Langkawi, making at least two more turns, he said, citing Malaysian military radar. "So there was this careful, planned navigation that was taking place. This was not something that a plane would do on its own; this was something that a human being had to be telling it to do."In addition, he said, Langkawi lies in neither of the arcs along which investigators believe the plane traveled.Still, American Airlines pilot John Testrake said events could have played out as Goodfellow described. "It's a possible scenario, but there are a lot of possible scenarios, and that's just one of them," he told CNN.The plane might also have landed on an island runway that was then covered with trees, he added. "It's anybody's guess. We're speculating; we're just speculating."JUST WATCHED Families wait for word from Australia Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Families wait for word from Australia 02:11JUST WATCHED Data deleted from pilot's simulator? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Data deleted from pilot's simulator? 03:53JUST WATCHED Satellites spot possible Flight 370 debris Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Satellites spot possible Flight 370 debris 02:02Photos: The search for MH370 Photos: The search for MH370 Two years after Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 went missing, a relative of one of the passengers burns incense in Beijing on March 8, 2016. Flight 370 vanished on March 8, 2014, as it flew from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing. There were 239 people on board. Hide Caption 1 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 On July 29, police carry a piece of debris on Reunion Island, a French territory in the Indian Ocean. A week later, authorities confirmed that the debris was from the missing flight. Hide Caption 2 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Staff members with the Australian Transport Safety Bureau examine a piece of aircraft debris at their laboratory in Canberra, Australia, on July 20. The flap was found in June by residents on Pemba Island off the coast of Tanzania, and officials had said it was highly likely to have come from Flight 370. Experts at the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, which is heading up the search for the plane, confirmed that the part was indeed from the missing aircraft. Hide Caption 3 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 In late February, American tourist Blaine Gibson found a piece of plane debris off Mozambique, a discovery that renewed hope of solving the mystery of the missing flight. The piece measured 35 inches by 22 inches. A U.S. official said it was likely the wreckage came from a Boeing 777, which MH370 was. Hide Caption 4 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Relatives of the flight's passengers console each other outside the Malaysia Airlines office in Subang, Malaysia, on February 12, 2015. Protesters had demanded that the airline withdraw the statement that all 239 people aboard the plane were dead. Hide Caption 5 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A police officer watches a couple cry outside the airline's office building in Beijing after officials refused to meet with them on June 11, 2014. The couple's son was on the plane. Hide Caption 6 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Members of the media scramble to speak with Azharuddin Abdul Rahman, director general of Malaysia's Civil Aviation Department, at a hotel in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on May 27, 2014. Data from communications between satellites and the missing flight was released the day before, more than two months after relatives of passengers said they requested it be made public. Hide Caption 7 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Operators aboard the Australian ship Ocean Shield move Bluefin-21, the U.S. Navy's autonomous underwater vehicle, into position to search for the jet on April 14, 2014. Hide Caption 8 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A member of the Royal New Zealand Air Force looks out of a window while searching for debris off the coast of western Australia on April 13, 2014. Hide Caption 9 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 The HMS Echo, a vessel with the British Roya; Navy, moves through the waters of the southern Indian Ocean on April 12, 2014. Hide Caption 10 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A Royal Australian Air Force AP-3C Orion, on a mission to drop sonar buoys to assist in the search, flies past the Australian vessel Ocean Shield on April 9, 2014. Hide Caption 11 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A relative of a missing passenger cries at a vigil in Beijing on April 8, 2014. Hide Caption 12 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Australian Defense Force divers scan the water for debris in the southern Indian Ocean on April 7, 2014. Hide Caption 13 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A towed pinger locator is readied to be deployed off the deck of the Australian vessel Ocean Shield on April 7, 2014. Hide Caption 14 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A member of the Royal New Zealand Air Force looks at a flare in the Indian Ocean during search operations on April 4, 2014. Hide Caption 15 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 On March 30, 2014, a woman in Kuala Lumpur prepares for an event in honor of those aboard Flight 370. Hide Caption 16 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 The sole representative for the families of Flight 370 passengers leaves a conference at a Beijing hotel on March 28, 2014, after other relatives left en masse to protest the Malaysian government's response to their questions. Hide Caption 17 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A member of the Royal Australian Air Force is silhouetted against the southern Indian Ocean during the search for the missing jet on March 27, 2014. Hide Caption 18 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Flight Lt. Jayson Nichols looks at a map aboard a Royal Australian Air Force aircraft during a search on March 27, 2014. Hide Caption 19 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 People in Kuala Lumpur light candles during a ceremony held for the missing flight's passengers on March 27, 2014. Hide Caption 20 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, center, delivers a statement about the flight on March 24, 2014. Razak's announcement came after the airline sent a text message to relatives saying it "deeply regrets that we have to assume beyond any reasonable doubt that MH 370 has been lost and that none of those onboard survived." Hide Caption 21 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Grieving relatives of missing passengers leave a hotel in Beijing on March 24, 2014. Hide Caption 22 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A passenger views a weather map in the departures terminal of Kuala Lumpur International Airport on March 22, 2014. Hide Caption 23 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A Chinese satellite captured this image, released on March 22, 2014, of a floating object in the Indian Ocean, according to China's State Administration of Science. It was a possible lead in the search for the missing plane. Surveillance planes were looking for two objects spotted by satellite imagery in remote, treacherous waters more than 1,400 miles from the west coast of Australia. Hide Caption 24 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Satellite imagery provided by the Australian Maritime Safety Authority on March 20, 2014, showed debris in the southern Indian Ocean that could have been from Flight 370. The announcement by Australian officials raised hopes of a breakthrough in the frustrating search. Hide Caption 25 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Another satellite shot provided by the Australian Maritime Safety Authority shows possible debris from the flight. Hide Caption 26 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A distraught relative of a missing passenger breaks down while talking to reporters at Kuala Lumpur International Airport on March 19, 2014. Hide Caption 27 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 On March 18, 2014, a relative of a missing passenger tells reporters in Beijing about a hunger strike to protest authorities' handling of information about the missing jet. Hide Caption 28 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 U.S. Navy crew members assist in search-and-rescue operations in the Indian Ocean on March 16, 2014. Hide Caption 29 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Members of the Chinese navy continue search operations on March 13, 2014. After starting in the sea between Malaysia and Vietnam, the plane's last confirmed location, search efforts expanded west into the Indian Ocean. Hide Caption 30 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A Vietnamese military official looks out an aircraft window during search operations March 13, 2014. Hide Caption 31 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Malaysian air force members look for debris near Kuala Lumpur on March 13, 2014. Hide Caption 32 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Relatives of missing passengers wait for the latest news at a hotel in Beijing on March 12, 2014. Hide Caption 33 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A member of the Vietnamese air force checks a map while searching for the missing plane on March 11, 2014. Hide Caption 34 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A Vietnamese air force plane found traces of oil that authorities had suspected to be from the missing Malaysia Airlines plane, the Vietnamese government online newspaper reported on March 8, 2014. However, a sample from the slick showed it was bunker oil, typically used to power large cargo ships, Malaysia's state news agency, Bernama, reported on March 10, 2014. Hide Caption 35 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A U.S. Navy Seahawk helicopter lands aboard the USS Pinckney to change crews on March 9, 2014, before returning to search for the missing plane in the Gulf of Thailand. Hide Caption 36 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Buddhist monks at Kuala Lumpur International Airport offer a special prayer for the missing passengers on March 9, 2014. Hide Caption 37 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Members of a Chinese emergency response team board a rescue vessel at the port of Sanya in China's Hainan province on March 9, 2014. Hide Caption 38 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 The rescue vessel sets out from Sanya in the South China Sea on March 9, 2014. Hide Caption 39 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, center, arrives to meet family members of missing passengers at the reception center at Kuala Lumpur International Airport on March 8, 2014. Hide Caption 40 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 A relative of two missing passengers reacts at their home in Kuala Lumpur on March 8, 2014. Hide Caption 41 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Chinese police at the Beijing airport stand beside the arrival board showing delayed Flight 370 in red on March 8, 2014. Hide Caption 42 of 43 Photos: The search for MH370 Malaysia Airlines Group CEO Ahmad Juahari Yahya, front, speaks during a news conference at a hotel in Sepang on March 8, 2014. "We deeply regret that we have lost all contacts" with the jet, he said. Hide Caption 43 of 43SPECULATION: PILOT SUICIDEThe evidence for it:The notion of a crew member bent on annihilation may seem far-fetched, but it's possible.For example, EgyptAir Flight 990 was flying 217 people from Los Angeles to New York to Cairo in 1999 when it crashed into the Atlantic Ocean. U.S. officials blamed a co-pilot, who was recorded repeating a prayer, for deliberately causing the crash, but Egyptian officials blamed mechanical problems.The Malaysian Airlines flight, a Boeing 777, could have experienced destruction by pilot or crew, some say."It's my belief that there was probably some type of struggle in the cockpit where it was one of the pilots that maybe had a meltdown or did something nefarious to the airplane," said Mark Weiss, a retired American Airlines pilot captain who has flown the Boeing 777 and now works at the Washington consulting firm Spectrum Group.Or there could have been another crew member or an uninvited or invited guest in the cockpit who "was bent on perhaps committing suicide or doing some destruction on the aircraft," Weiss added.Though allowing guests to enter the cockpit would be improper and "should be disconcerting to anybody," Weiss said, there is no one on a plane who can order them not to do so. Weiss cited a woman's report that co-pilot Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27, invited her and her friend into the cockpit , where they sat from takeoff to landing during a 2011 flight from Phuket, Thailand, to Kuala Lumpur."That's an enormous breach of security," Weiss said of cockpit guests.But none of us will know what really happened in the cockpit "until we have the cockpit voice recorder and the flight data recorder," he added.And Malaysian opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim told CNN's Christiane Amanpour on Wednesday that he has met Zaharie "on a number of occasions" and said that the pilot is no extremist."He supports our multiracial coalition. He supports democratic reform. He is against any form of extremism," Anwar said. "And we take a very strong position in clamoring for change through constitutional and democratic means."Some have tried to tie Zaharie to Anwar as a family relation.Anwar's press secretary told CNN that Zaharie is the opposition leader's -- wait for it -- son's wife's mother's father's brother's son."What my daughter-in-law told me is that he is a family member, not too close, but she calls him 'uncle,' which is quite common here," Anwar said. "But I know him ... basically as a party activist."The evidence against it:No information has emerged suggesting either of the men flying the jet had a history of mental illness or radicalism. The flight was piloted by Capt. Zaharie, a 53-year-old Malaysian family man with more than 18,000 flying hours compiled during 33 years experience at the airline. He was a veteran flier.Peter Chong, a friend of Zaharie's, said early this week that he was bothered by speculation about the captain's possible role in the disappearance and questions about possible ties to terrorism."I think it is a little bit insensitive and unfair to the family," he said, adding that he knew of no evidence to suggest any ulterior motives on Zaharie's part.The first officer also has a stable work history: He has been at the airline since 2007 and has compiled 2,763 hours of flying time. He had recently switched to working on the Boeing 777 and had a brief moment of fame when he was featured in a story on "CNN Business Traveler."SPECULATION: COMMANDEERINGThe evidence for it:Commandeering isn't to be confused with hijacking, a political act in which demands are issued by the hijacker, said CNN national security analyst Peter Bergen.A commandeering is more idiosyncratic, where motives aren't immediately clear, he said.Some counterterrorism officials say that could be the case with the Malaysian flight, he said. "The plane could have been commandeered," according to Bergen.Commandeered flights predate the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the United States, he said.For example, in 1994, the cargo plane FedEx Flight 705 was commandeered by an employee with a hammer and spear gun who burst into the cockpit and wanted to crash the plane into FedEx's Memphis, Tennessee, headquarters. The crew thwarted that takeover attempt.In 2000, a passenger with a suspected history of mental illness commandeered British Airways Flight 2069 between London and Nairobi, Kenya, and put the plane carrying 300 passengers into a nosedive until the crew subdued him."So commandeering would fit with the few facts that we do know and certainly a theory that we haven't heard a lot of that isn't a conspiracy," Bergen said.The evidence against it:Since September 11, 2001, airlines around the world have put in place procedures to keep unauthorized people out of the cockpit; speculation that those procedures may have been flouted during the flight is just that.SPECULATION: HIJACKINGThe evidence for it:That the plane terminated transponder data before its disappearance has led some experts to suspect a hijacking.The political motivation for a hijacking, however, would be as mysterious as the plane's whereabouts."If you are dealing with hijackers on board the aircraft, whether it was an organized gang, or whether it was some psychologically disturbed individual that ... managed to gain access to the flight, they can neutralize the crew," said Philip Baum, editor of Aviation Security International."But then again, there wouldn't necessarily be any communication at all -- as we witnessed on September 11th," Baum added, referring to the 2001 terrorist attacks. "If there was an explosive decompression, if a bomb detonated on board the aircraft, then again there would be no communication."The evidence against it:One possible motive could be terrorism. Authorities haven't ruled out that possibility, though experts are divided on this theory, partly because no one has claimed responsibility.Still, the absence of a claim of responsibility doesn't mean it wasn't terrorism. "There might be another reason for them not coming forward at this point," said Shawn Henry, former executive assistant director of the FBI. "If it was a terrorist incident ... if this was part of a much larger or broader potential act, and for whatever reason, they wouldn't come forward at this point, but at a later time."SPECULATION: MECHANICAL FAILUREThe evidence for it:In a less sinister but equally lethal hypothesis, some experts theorize the plane crashed because of a mechanical malfunction -- or perhaps a total electrical failure.Aviation consultant Kit Darby has said that it's possible there was a power failure, and that the pilot was attempting to get to a runway when the plane lost communications. There's also the possibility that the tail or a wing tore from the fuselage. This particular Boeing had suffered a clipped wingtip in the past, but Boeing repaired it.Another possibility is that a window or door failed, which would cause the temperature inside the plane to drop to 60 degrees below zero, creating a freezing fog and giving crew members only seconds to don oxygen masks before becoming disoriented and then incapacitated.The evidence against it:The possibility of electrical failure is improbable, but not impossible, according to Jim Tilmon, an aviation expert and retired American Airlines pilot. It "is very, very hard to imagine" because the Boeing jet has so many generators aboard, he said."If all the engine generators fail, they still have what's called the RAT (ram air turbine). That's the generator that literally falls out of the bottom of the airplane, has a propeller on it, and ram-air turns that and gives them generating power enough to go ahead and fly the airplane safely."Electrical failure -- it'd have to be total ... absolutely incredible, like we've not heard of before," Tilmon said.The absence of a debris field could suggest that the pilot made an emergency landing on water and the plane then sank intact, but there is still the mystery of the distress signal. There wasn't one.The possibility of failure of a window or door would be remote, given the Boeing jets' reliability.SPECULATION: THE BIZARREUnconstrained by the professional accountability under which the experts labor, some Internet users have offered their own blue-sky theories:A meteor struck the plane.The evidence for it:A meteor was reported in the area around the time Flight 370 took off.The evidence against it:This seems to be atop a list of strange theories popping up in the absence of empirical data explaining the plane's disappearance. Given what little is known about the flight path, and the astronomical odds against such an event, a meteor strike seems like an ultralong-shot explanation.Some country's military shot it down:The evidence for it:None.The evidence against it:Any such effort would have required the involvement of dozens, if not hundreds, of people, many of whom would have relatives, boyfriends, girlfriends and Facebook accounts. A story as combustible as this one would not remain secret for long.The plane landed on an airstrip without anyone noticing:The evidence for it:None, though that has not stopped people from conjecturing, or encouraging others to do so."What I have failed to read so far is the possibility that the pilot in command intentionally turned off the engines and performed a dead-stick landing at their intended destination," CNN.com reader Dave Mathews said in an e-mail. "Planes are essentially gliders with power and a 777 is no different, it is simply a big glider which makes zero noise with no power."He cited the story of the Gimli Glider , an Air Canada Boeing 767 whose captain glided it to safety when it ran out of fuel and lost power during a flight in 1983."Whoever is brazen enough to steal a jetliner is brazen enough to perform that maneuver intentionally," said Mathews.Why would someone steal, hijack or commandeer a 777-200ER only to use it later? "Without passengers, baggage or cargo and stripped down to only the bare essentials for the interior cabin, what you have is basically a flying gas can that could reach any point on earth, and one can only look back at history as to what they would intend to do with it once they reached their target," Mathews said. "The only aircraft better suited for this that they could have targeted was the 777-222LR, the longest range airliner in the world."James Kallstrom, a former FBI assistant director, said this week that it's possible the plane could have landed somewhere, though he added that more information is needed to reach a definitive conclusion. He referred to the vast search area."You draw that arc, and you look at countries like Pakistan, you know, and you get into your Superman novels, and you see the plane landing somewhere and (people) repurposing it for some dastardly deed down the road," he told CNN's Jake Tapper. "I mean, that's not beyond the realm of realism. I mean, that could happen."The evidence against it:An action like the one performed by the Air Canada pilot would best be highly dangerous and would need to be performed under ideal conditions.And Kallstrom acknowledged the difficulty of basing any conclusion on scraps of information that sometimes conflict."We're getting so much conflicting data," he said. "You veer one way, then you veer the other way. The investigators need some definitive, correct data."Aliens abducted the plane.The evidence for it:None.The evidence against it:None, and -- if you believe that aliens abducted the plane -- we've got a bridge to sell you.Speculation abounds."Everybody wants to get a handle on something right now," former Federal Aviation Administration investigator David Soucie said of the myriad theories. "No one has an answer, so they're going to try to put one on it. So that creates all kinds of assumptions."