Story highlights A magnitude-4.1 quake rattles the Los Angeles area Saturday afternoon, USGS saysNo damage or significant injuries found in affected areas, authorities sayA series of aftershocks follow after the quake"Earthquake is the second in two weeks," Los Angeles mayor saysA magnitude-5.1 earthquake struck the Los Angeles area Friday night, jolting nearby communities and breaking water mains in some neighborhoods.Its epicenter was in Orange County, one mile east of La Habra and four miles north of Fullerton, the U.S. Geological Survey said.Shortly after the earthquake, nearly two dozen aftershocks followed.A magnitude-4.1 shake rattled the area Saturday afternoon, centered about a mile and a quarter southeast of the Los Angeles County community of Rowland Heights, the geological agency said.After the Friday night earthquake, authorities said police and local fire departments assessed affected areas and found no damage or significant injuries. One minor injury was reported in Orange County, emergency officials said.JUST WATCHED Can earthquakes be predicted? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Can earthquakes be predicted? 02:11JUST WATCHED Quake leaves cracks in California homes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Quake leaves cracks in California homes 01:31JUST WATCHED See aftermath of 5.1 quake in L.A. area Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See aftermath of 5.1 quake in L.A. area 02:20JUST WATCHED Magnitude-4.4 quake shakes L.A. studio Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Magnitude-4.4 quake shakes L.A. studio 00:41"Tonight's earthquake is the second in two weeks, and reminds us to be prepared," Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said.An hour earlier, a magnitude-3.6 tremor struck the same area, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.The quakes come on the heels of a magnitude-4.4 tremor that hit near downtown Los Angeles a week ago. It shook nearby buildings but did not cause significant damage.Southern California has experienced relatively minor tremors since 1994 when a magnitude-6.7 quake killed dozens and caused $42 billion in damage. It now stands as the second-costliest disaster in U.S. history, after Hurricane Katrina.Earthquakes with less than magnitude 5.5 don't usually cause significant damage or casualties, though results vary by region, geophysicist Paul Caruso said.Damage often depends on construction codes and types of rock that exist underground, he said.