Story highlights Resident says authorities didn't tell her about landslide risksThe official toll remains: 16 confirmed dead, 8 other bodies locatedOfficial: 90 are missing or unaccounted for, down from 176 a day earlierGovernor: "It's extremely discouraging" more survivors haven't been foundThey've been at it for parts of five days, using excavators, shovels and their hands to scour stark, dirty, surreal remnants of a landslide that ripped through part of rural Snohomish County, Washington. The first goal: Locate any sign of life.But the more rescuers dig, the less likely it seems they'll find it.Snohomish County Emergency Management Director John Pennington said Wednesday that 16 people are confirmed dead and another eight bodies have been found but not recovered, the same information that was given a day earlier.The biggest day-to-day change is in the number of those confirmed missing or unaccounted for: It stands at 90, down from 176 the day before.Pennington put another 35 people in a different category, saying their status "is still unknown." He explained this grouping as those who might not have officially lived in the area but -- perhaps like a girlfriend or boyfriend of someone who did -- frequented there and whose fate isn't officially known.Given the lack of fresh leads, the lack of new rescues and the scale of the devastation, Gov. Jay Inslee said Wednesday that he doesn't "think anyone can reach any other conclusion" other than that the death toll will rise significantly."It's been very sad that we have not been able to find anyone living now for probably 36, 48 hours. So it's extremely discouraging," Inslee told CNN's "The Lead."The governor added: "We were hopeful that we would find folks who might be protected by a car or a structure, but the force of this landslide just defies imagination. The cars that have been found have just literally been twisted into corkscrews and torn in half."JUST WATCHED Race to save lives in Washington landslide Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Race to save lives in Washington landslide 05:17Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – President Obama speaks to first responders, recovery workers and community members on Tuesday, April 22, at the scene of the deadly landslide that devastated Oso, Washington, one month before. The landslide crossed the North Fork of the Stillaguamish River and caused multiple deaths and massive damage. Hide Caption 1 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – An excavator clears a drainage channel on Wednesday, April 2. Hide Caption 2 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – This satellite image taken on Monday, March 31, shows the path of the landslide. Hide Caption 3 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Workers cut a tree next to a possible victim on Sunday, March 30. Hide Caption 4 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue teams use a path of plywood to walk through a muddy field in Arlington, Washington, on March 30. Hide Caption 5 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Tryon, a rescue dog muddied from the day's work, stands with his handler March 30 near the west side of the landslide. Hide Caption 6 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Rescue workers dig through mud and debris near Darrington, Washington, on Saturday, March 29. Hide Caption 7 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Mailboxes are seen in floodwater March 29 near Darrington. Hide Caption 8 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Searchers in Oso pause for a moment of silence on Saturday, March 29. It was observed at 10:37 a.m., exactly one week after the landslide tore through the small community. Hide Caption 9 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue personnel attend a moment of silence at the fire house in Darrington. Hide Caption 10 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Ralph Jones helps provide shelter for Brooke Odenius, right, Klarissa Calviste and their baby daughters during the moment of silence at the fire house in Darrington. Hide Caption 11 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Staff Sgt. Jonathon Hernas of the Air National Guard carefully makes his way across debris and mud while searching for missing people March 29 in Oso. Hide Caption 12 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Air National Guard members look out at the hill where the landslide originated while they search through debris March 29 in Oso. Hide Caption 13 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Heavy machinery is used to move debris as members of the Air National Guard search for victims on March 29. Hide Caption 14 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue workers wade through water covering a highway near Darrington on Thursday, March 27. The landslide left buildings covered in up to 40 feet of mud. Hide Caption 15 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A searcher walks near a massive pile of debris in Oso on March 27. Hide Caption 16 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The muddied waters of the North Fork of the Stillaguamish River mix with the cleaner flow of the river's South Fork on March 27. Hide Caption 17 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Emergency vehicles fill State Route 530 leading to the scene of the landslide in Oso on Wednesday, March 26. Hide Caption 18 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Washington Gov. Jay Inslee speaks on the phone with a victim's family member as he flies to the Snohomish County Emergency Operations Center in Everett on March 26. Hide Caption 19 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue workers look through debris on March 26. Hide Caption 20 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Teresa Welter cries during a candlelight vigil in Arlington on Tuesday, March 25. Hide Caption 21 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The roof of a house sits among debris as emergency personnel continue to look for survivors on March 25. Hide Caption 22 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Search-and-rescue workers use dogs to look for survivors on March 25. Hide Caption 23 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A boot is found among the debris on March 25. Hide Caption 24 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A search-and-rescue worker looks for survivors on March 25. Hide Caption 25 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Chaplains watch as crews clear debris from State Route 530 in Oso on March 25. Hide Caption 26 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The remains of the massive landslide are seen on Monday, March 24. The landslide blocked the highway and the Stillaguamish River. Hide Caption 27 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A King County Sheriff's Office helicopter lowers a rescue worker on March 24. Hide Caption 28 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A search-and-rescue team carries the body of a victim on March 24. Hide Caption 29 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Volunteers help out with the search in Oso on March 24. Hide Caption 30 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Snohomish County Executive John Lovick wipes a tear during a briefing in downtown Arlington on March 24. Hide Caption 31 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Natalie Reed, right, and her 5-year-old daughter, Deja, attend a prayer service at Arlington United Church on March 24 for those affected by the landslide. Hide Caption 32 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – An intact house sits at the edge of the landslide on March 24. Hide Caption 33 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The Langston family watches an online news clip about the landslide on Sunday, March 23, while they stay at a temporary Red Cross shelter in Darrington. The family's home was flooded after the landslide blocked the Stillaguamish River. Hide Caption 34 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – A destroyed home is stranded atop mud and debris on State Route 530 near Oso on March 23. Hide Caption 35 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Downed power lines and parts of a destroyed house can be seen in the debris blocking the road near Oso on March 23. Hide Caption 36 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Gov. Jay Inslee, right, comforts Barbara Welsh after a news conference March 23 outside the Arlington Police Department. Welsh's husband, Bill, was among the scores of people listed as missing immediately after the disaster. Hide Caption 37 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Emergency workers arrive at the scene of the landslide on Saturday, March 22. Hide Caption 38 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – Groundwater saturation, tied to heavy rainfall in the area over the past month, was blamed for the landslide. Hide Caption 39 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The landslide cut off the small town of Darrington and prompted an evacuation notice for fear of a potentially "catastrophic flood event," authorities said. Hide Caption 40 of 41 Photos: Photos: Washington state landslide Washington state landslide – The first Washington State Patrol trooper arrives on the scene on March 22, according to the patrol's Twitter feed. Hide Caption 41 of 41JUST WATCHED See 4-year-old pulled from landslide Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See 4-year-old pulled from landslide 01:03JUST WATCHED Response to landslide is 'very humbling' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Response to landslide is 'very humbling' 01:46Of course, that doesn't mean authorities aren't doing everything they possibly can to find hope within the up to 40 feet of mud that has destroyed 49 structures.Scores of local, state and federal authorities converged Wednesday in and around the roughly square-mile patch of hell located about an hour's drive northeast of Seattle, some of them using heavy machinery, chainsaws, pumps and their hands trying to save lives or, at least, bring solace to family members by finding bodies. They were accompanied by rescue and cadaver dogs plus the coordinated ballet of helicopters in search of any heat source that might indicate a living person or animal."That miracle can happen," said firefighter Jan McClellan. "We live for that hope. We really live for that hope."Unfortunately, those hopes weren't realized Wednesday.What could have been done?As Washington's governor points out, long ago, glaciers "carved a very beautiful state" and left behind earth that's "very, very loose" and thus very dangerous."We have hundreds of areas ... that are very prone to landslides," Inslee said. "This is hardly unique."And the area affected in the most recent calamity has been hit before, in 1951, 1967, 1988 and 2006. Daniel Miller, a geomorphologist who co-wrote a report in 1999 for the Army Corps of Engineers that looked at options to reduce sediments from area landslides, said that none of these events resulted in deaths, though at least the most recent one damaged houses.This history, along with erosion from Stillaguamish River and worries about overlogging, prompted some mitigation and other effort. A 2010 plan identified the area swept away as one of several "hot spots," said Pennington.The county had been saturated by "amazing" rains for weeks on end that made the ground even less stable, he added. Then there was a small, recent earthquake that may or may not have shaken things up more.Still, that doesn't mean anyone anticipated an event of the scale of what happened Saturday morning, according to Pennington."Sometimes, big events just happen," he said.Pennington claimed residents knew the area was "landslide-prone," an assertion one of them challenged."Nobody ever told us that there were geology reports," Robin Youngblood told CNN's Anderson Cooper. "... This is criminal, as far as I'm concerned."Inslee acknowledged that valid questions remain about whether more could or should have been done to prevent the landslide itself or prevent humans from being endangered because of it.JUST WATCHED Family finds dog amid landslide rubble Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Family finds dog amid landslide rubble 01:32JUST WATCHED Searcher: 'It's no fun finding bodies' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Searcher: 'It's no fun finding bodies' 01:41JUST WATCHED Mudslide: Search for the missing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mudslide: Search for the missing 07:19JUST WATCHED Desperate search for landslide survivors Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Desperate search for landslide survivors 02:11And they must be answered, the governor said. Just not now."We are going to get to the bottom of this," Inslee said, "after we do everything possible to rescue people."Like a 'moon landscape'When word first filtered in Saturday morning about the landslide, Randy Fay -- a helicopter rescue team coordinator in Snohomish County -- was one of the first on the scene.He and others were getting ready to take a training flight when they got the news. They set off expecting to find maybe a single house affected. Fifteen minutes later, they realized it was much worse."It was like this moon landscape, with pick-up sticks everywhere," Fay recalled.His team quickly went to work, looking for anyone above ground and waving for help from what Fay described as a "mushy slurry (that) once you got into it, there was no way to push yourselves up."Among the first they hoisted to safety were two women, "caked in mud, head to toe" on what was left of a roof floating on water. One of them, Youngblood, recalled hearing the landslide's roar, seeing it "racing like 150 mph" toward her house, scrambling for her life as it tore through."We were under water ... and we had mud in every orifice," Youngblood told CNN. "The house was moving. I just remembered thinking, 'OK, creator, if this is it, we might as well relax.'"Her friend, who was visiting from Holland, was pinned under a tree but managed to get free. Eventually, Fay and his crew were able to hoist both to safety from what remained of the house, which ended up a quarter mile from where it once stood."I have a hurt finger and lots of bruises and a torqued back, but no broken bones," said Youngblood, who had an emotional reunion with Fay on Wednesday. "God knows how that happened."There was also an amputee rescued that first day, as well as a boy, about age 4, deep in mud shivering in a shirt "out there in the middle of nowhere -- no homes, no nothing," according to Fay."This kid is a little older than my grandson," an emotional Fay recalled Wednesday. "If that was Eli, I'd do whatever I had to do ... The good news is that mom and kid are back together."They were 10 rescues total by air that Saturday by both Snohomish County crews -- eight civilians plus two exhausted firefighters stuck in no man's land -- not to mention six more rescued using Navy helicopters. An injured civilian was rescued on Tuesday, said Snohomish County sheriff's Deputy Bill Quistorf.Authorities have said that at least seven people were injured. One Seattle hospital, Harborview Medical Center, reported Wednesday that five patients were still in its care. They include a 22-week-old boy who was critical but "improving," two men, ages 37 and 81, in serious condition in intensive care, and two others listed in satisfactory condition.Unfortunately, the number of dead thus far has far outnumbered those saved.And authorities are still looking, for whatever they can find."We can't lose hope," firefighter Eric Finzimer said. "We're here to find these people."