Story highlights The sheriff of Caroline County, Virginia, reviews the burial of Tamerlan Tsarnaev"All paperwork is in order at this point," he says, suggesting burial is legal, can't be undoneCounty officials weren't consulted in advance, then expressed surprise and dismaySheriff: County is "now connected to this tragedy in the most unsavory way "The sheriff of a small Virginia county, where residents and officials alike had expressed dismay over the burial of a Boston bombing suspect within their midst, said Saturday that it appears "all paperwork is in order at this point," suggesting the interment was legal and nothing can be done about it.The previous day, when news came out that Tamerlan Tsarnaev had been buried in Caroline County, local officials said they would review the matter to make sure all protocols were followed.And if they weren't, county board of supervisors chairman Floyd Thomas said Friday, "We would look into undoing what happened."Caroline County Sheriff Tony Lippa said, in a statement Saturday, that he and David Storke -- the mayor of Bowling Green, Virginia, who also owns a funeral home -- spent Friday night reviewing the case. That includes looking at Tsarnaev's death certificate, burial permit official disposition, a removal or transportation permit from Massachusetts and deeds recorded at the Caroline County Circuit Court.Those checks did not turn up anything to indicate the burial was done improperly. In Caroline County, local officials do not need to be consulted or have to approve the burial of a person on county land in advance.Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Dias Kadyrbayev, left, with Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsamaev in a picture taken from the social media site VK.com. Kadyrbayev is expected to plead guilty August 21 to charges in connection with removing a backpack and computer from Tsamaev's dorm room after the April 2013 bombing, according to a defense lawyer. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed during the shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19, 2013. He is pictured here at the 2010 New England Golden Gloves. Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was captured in a Boston suburb on April 19, 2013, after a manhunt that shut down the city. In July, he pleaded not guilty to killing four people and wounding more than 200. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – From left, Azamat Tazhayakov and Dias Kadyrbayev went with Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to Times Square in this photo taken from the social media site VK.com. A federal grand jury charged Tazhayakov and Kadyrbayev with obstructing justice and conspiracy to obstruct justice relating to the removal of a backpack from Tsarnaev's dorm room after the bombings. Tazhayakov was convicted of conspiracy and obstruction charges in July 2014. He faces up to 25 years in prison at his sentencing in October. He has filed an appeal. Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Robel Phillipos, a U.S. citizen, was also arrested on May 1, 2013 . He was charged with lying to federal agents about the bombing, according to court papers. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Phillipos, Tazhayakov and Kadyrbayev are accused of removing items from Tsarnaev's dorm room after the bombings on April 15, 2013. The items they took included a backpack containing fireworks that had been "opened and emptied of powder," according to the affidavit. Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The FBI released photos and video on April 18, 2013, of two men identified as Suspect 1 and Suspect 2 in the deadly bombings at the Boston Marathon. They were later identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, and his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26. Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Boston Police released surveillance images of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev at a convenience store on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The FBI tweeted this photo on April 19, 2013, and urged Watertown residents to stay indoors as they searched for the second suspect. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The FBI released photos and video on April 18, 2013, of two men it called suspects in the deadly bombings and pleaded for public help in identifying them. The men were photographed walking together near the finish line. Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – A man identified as Suspect 2 appeared in this photograph by bystander David Green, who took the photo after completing the Boston Marathon. Green submitted the photo to the FBI, he told Piers Morgan in an interview. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The man identified as Suspect 2 appears in a tighter crop of David Green's photo. Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Authorities later identified Suspect 1 as Tamerlan Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 was identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 1 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 1 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 1 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Both suspects are seen walking through the crowd. Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – A photo released by the FBI highlights Suspect 2. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – A photo released by the FBI highlights Suspect 2. Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 walks through the crowd. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 23 of 23JUST WATCHED County official: Burial was news to us Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH County official: Burial was news to us 03:28JUST WATCHED Boston bomb survivor heads home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boston bomb survivor heads home 01:23JUST WATCHED Were there warnings before Boston? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Were there warnings before Boston? 02:02"Like the rest of America, the citizens of this county were outraged by the Boston Marathon bombings. We too mourned the loss of life, prayed for the survivors and offered our support," Lippa said."Unfortunately, we now find ourselves forever connected to this tragedy in the most unsavory way, as the final resting place of one of the alleged terrorists."As Thomas pointed out, Tamerlan Tsarnaev had "no ties to Caroline County."His body ended up there nearly a month after he died following a shootout with police just outside Boston, which took place days after the bombing. Most recently, his body was in a funeral home in Worcester, Massachusetts, where protesters appeared frequently outside amid calls for him to be sent back to where his parents live in southern Russia.That was until a Virginia woman named Martha Mullen came into the picture, reaching out to representatives of her church plus local Muslim, Jewish and Hindu representatives in an effort to find a final resting place for Tsarnaev, according to the Islamic Society of Greater Richmond.Mullen also talked with her local pastor about the moral implications of her spearheading the effort."Jesus tells us, 'Love your enemies,'" she said, according to the Islamic Society. "Not to hate them, even after they are dead."On Thursday morning, Tsarnaev was buried in an unmarked grave in Al-Barzakh Muslim Cemetery in Doswell, Virginia. Tsarnaev's uncle Ruslan Tsarni was a point man in the effort, and he expressed "outrage" that Tsarnaev's own parents "have not been here for their children."The burial caught people off guard in Caroline County, which has about 30,000 residents. In addition to voicing confusion and disgust, officials expressed concerns that the grave site might become a target for protesters or vandals.A sheriff's deputy was posted there after the news broke Friday. There were no incidents reported that night and into Saturday, according to the county sheriff's office, which added that the cemetery will get "no more and no less" protection than any other cemetery.