Story highlights Children sing "Jesus Loves Me" during a memorial service Sunday night"It's going to take a long time for this community to rebuild," the president says"When we say that we've got your back, I promise you that we keep our word," he saysFunerals continue to be held for some of the 24 killedOklahomans will "rise again" and will have the nation behind them as they struggle to bounce back from tornadoes that tore through the state last week, officials said Sunday, a day of quiet reflection and prayer."As fellow Americans, we're going to be there as shelter from the storm for the people of Moore who have been impacted," said President Barack Obama. "And when we say that we've got your back, I promise you that we keep our word."The president described himself as a messenger speaking on behalf of the entire nation as he toured storm damage Sunday. He praised local officials, first responders and school principals for their work in the wake of the storms, which killed 24 people, injured more than 375 others and damaged 12,000 residences in and around the Oklahoma City metropolitan area."This area's known more than its share of heartbreak, but people here pride themselves on the Oklahoma standard ... being able to work through disasters like this and come out stronger on the other side," he said.JUST WATCHED Obama: Oklahomans inspire with courage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama: Oklahomans inspire with courage 00:55JUST WATCHED Principal: Teachers saved students Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Principal: Teachers saved students 05:07Speaking in front of the wreckage of the destroyed Plaza Towers Elementary School in Moore, Obama called for Americans to donate to help storm relief efforts.JUST WATCHED Loved ones remember tornado victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Loved ones remember tornado victims 01:36Photos: Living in tornado alley Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Frieda Stanley sits in what was once her living room. Her Oklahoma City neighborhood was hit by a deadly twister in May 1999 and again on Monday. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – The nameless neighborhood, near SW 149 and May Avenue in Oklahoma City, sits on the spot where the 1999 and 2013 tornado paths intersect. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Lisa Brown helps her former colleague Kay Taylor pull belongings from the wreckage of her home. Taylor, a former PE teacher and school counselor, was most concerned about finding her collections of pennies, gumball machines and ladybug figures. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Kay Taylor, 63, moved into her home here after the 1999 tornado. She plans to rebuild. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Families on Tuesday and Wednesday searched for recognizable objects hidden in the anonymous rubble. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Cheryl Richeson survived Monday's tornado by hiding out in her family's safe room, which is built to withstand Oklahoma's severe weather. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Some people in this neighborhood say they will rebuild. Others aren't sure they trust the skies here. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – George Stanley recorded the tornado on his iPhone before waiting out the storm in his neighbor's underground storm shelter. He doesn't plan to leave. "It's my paradise out here," he said. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Residents talked about how they survived this storm and the 1999 tornado as they pulled photos and other personal belongings from their homes. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Living in tornado alley Living in tornado alley – Kay Taylor lives next door to her 94-year-old aunt, whose home was destroyed by tornadoes in 1999 and this week. Both women plan to stay on this land. Hide Caption 10 of 10Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Heather Shannon helps a friend find family photos and other keepsakes at her home in Moore, Oklahoma, on May 22. People who lost their homes to the tornado on Monday continue to search through the rubble in hopes of finding some of their belongings. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Jon Cook salvaged a flag that was presented to his family when his grandfather, a Korean War veteran, passed away. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Payton Jo Lindsey sits on her grandmother's hope chest amid the ruins where her family's home once stood. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Aidan Fox, 9, was happy to find a baseball bat behind his grandparents' house in Moore on May 22. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Lori Lacey found her dog Lillie two days after the tornado destroyed her home. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Chelsea and Shane Stanfield discovered some family photos of them with their son, Lane. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Kelcy Trowbridge searches for family keepsakes in the rubble of her home. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Thomas and Kelcy Trowbridge found a basket adorned with footprints from one of their two children. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Jennifer Nutty-Marquez, left, and Jamie Plunk saved a poster of Nutty-Marquez's son, Caleb, from the wreckage of their home. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Carolyn Booher found her husband's wedding ring and several photos of her parents in the debris. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Jason Keen and his wife, Katy, search through the wreckage in a field of debris behind their house. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Thomas and Lisa Jones located some family photos of them and their son, Anthony. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Scott, left, and Buddy Whitmore recovered a bowl that belonged to their grandmother. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – The items salvaged by Scott and Jill Ashbaugh included a photo of their 2-year-old son, Carter, and one of their wedding photos. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Jill Ashbaugh works to remove her family's recovered belongings from their home. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – Trisha Jones and her fiance, Shaun Samuel, recovered a photo collage that Trisha received as a graduation gift. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Photos: Recovered from the wreckage Lost and found: Recovered from the wreckage – A flag hangs from a tree in a neighborhood in Moore that was in the direct path of the Oklahoma tornado. Hide Caption 17 of 17"It's going to take a long time for this community to rebuild, so I want to urge every American to step up," he said, suggesting donating via the American Red Cross website.After his public remarks, Obama met with first responders at a Moore fire station."We got to talk to him after he saw the damage, and of course, once you see the damage, it's different," Moore Police Sgt. Jeremy Lewis told CNN affiliate KOCO . "No matter how many pictures you look at, you see it in person, it's going to to change even the president, which it did."Obama vowed to keep helping the area rebuild, long after camera crews and reporters from around the country leave."He ... let us know that after all the media and everything is gone, he'll still be sending anything that we need," Lewis said, "and he'll make sure that we get the town built back up."It's been a weekend of highs and lows for the tornado-ravaged area.A public memorial and prayer service was held Sunday evening at the First Baptist Church in Moore, where tissues were laid out in the pews."Our spirits have been shaken this week," Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin said at the service."Our hearts have been broken, but our resolve is strong and we will rise again. In the midst of human tragedy, we've seen the best of Oklahoma come forth."Fallin held up two items she found in the wreckage of a school -- a note from a student, and a poster with classroom rules, imploring children to always do their very best.She welcomed a teacher and a group of students from Briarwood Elementary. The school was destroyed by the tornado, but everyone survived.Holding flowers, the students sang "Jesus Loves Me," a song some of them were singing as the storm blasted their school."I think it was probably the start of healing for the community," Debby Goss, a Shawnee, Oklahoma, resident, said about the prayer service."I think a lot of people do pull together here, and this was a good time for them to see each other in one place that wasn't a rescue center or a disaster area -- that there was a peaceful place for them to just sit and think about the other people that are here to support them and help."Saturday's graduation festivities were infused by reminders of the storm's tragic aftermath.When Southmoore High's Alyson Costilla walked across the stage to get her diploma, about a dozen people in the crowd stood and held up pictures of her mother, who died in a 7-Eleven ravaged by the powerful winds.Transforming Moore back into the city it was won't be easy. Its public schools alone suffered $45 million in damage, including the two elementary schools that were leveled. Insurance claims related to Monday's storm will likely top $2 billion, according to Kelly Collins from the Oklahoma Insurance Department.But residents aren't doing it all alone.JUST WATCHED Hear 911 tapes from Oklahoma Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hear 911 tapes from Oklahoma 02:37Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Sean Xuereb recovers a dog from the rubble of a home that was destroyed by the massive tornado that hit Moore, Oklahoma, on Monday, May 20. A website has been set up to help lost and found pets , and shelters have been set up to help displaced and injured animals. For ways to help, visit CNN.com/impact. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Volunteer Paula McCoart feeds a dog at a shelter for displaced pets on Thursday, May 23. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – A cat rests with her kittens at a shelter on May 23. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Volunteer Tiffany Pacheco holds a small dog at an animal shelter on May 23. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – A dog gets checked out by veterinarian Dr. Nancy Newcomb after it was found in the rubble of a house on May 23. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – A dog rests in a cage at an animal shelter on May 23. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Beberly Berenner holds her family dog Lillie, who was dug out of their tornado-devastated home by a neighbor. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Dogs sit in cages at a shelter for displaced pets on May 23. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Notes written by the vet are left on the cage of a dog while he rests at an animal shelter on May 23. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Yolanda Soliz, left, checks a dog as she searches for her pets, lost during the May 20 tornado. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – Farrell Ramsey holds his dog Tiger after he found him at an animal shelter on May 23. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – A dog rests in a cage at an animal shelter in Moore. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado Pets rescued after Oklahoma tornado – June Simson embraces her cat Sammi after she found him standing on the rubble of her destroyed home on May 21. Hide Caption 13 of 13JUST WATCHED OKC twisters: 15 years in 2 minutes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH OKC twisters: 15 years in 2 minutes 02:39Besides the presence of Federal Emergency Management Agency representatives and other public officials on the ground, they've had friends, relatives, even strangers come out to help.Last week, Caleb Allison stared out at the mass of debris that covered the yard in front of his destroyed home."Who's going to come get it?" the Westmoore High School Spanish teacher wondered."Even our insurance company said, 'you could pay someone to do it, but it might take days before they can come out here,'" Allison told CNN.But for Allison, what seemed like a mammoth problem was swiftly solved on Sunday with the help of a group of students, parent-teacher association members and fellow teachers from his school and Heritage Trails Elementary, where his wife teaches music."We probably had 70 to 80 people in our front yard," he said, "and we cleaned it in a matter of 30 minutes."Morgan DeLong, one of the volunteers, said many whose homes survived the storm are eager to chip in."It's kind of our turn to return that blessing and help people out. And it's incredible to be around all the faculty members and other students," she said. "It's amazing to just look out and see how our community's coming together.""Basically what I need is the ability to get through red tape, the ability to get the FEMA funds in here quickly and to get the services that our citizens need to help them recover through this terrible disaster," Gov. Fallin said on CNN's "State of the Union."Fallin, a Republican, said the initial reaction from the federal government in assisting her state was fast and effective."So far we have had great response," she said, quickly adding there was a long way to go before Moore returns to normal."This is a massive debris field. It's not just a couple blocks," she said. "It's miles."