Story highlights More than 13,000 customers are still without power on Long Island, a utility saysTwo Long Island residents are suing utilities after no electricity for days in the wake of SandyThe plaintiffs' attorney hopes other residents will join in the suit as a class actionThe power companies say their focus continues to be on restoring electricityIt has been more than two weeks since Superstorm Sandy hit the Northeast, yet many still remain without power.Two residents of New York's Long Island are going to court declaring, in effect, they've had enough.A lawsuit filed Tuesday by the two residents charges the area's main electricity providers -- Long Island Power Authority (LIPA) and its partner National Grid -- committed "gross negligence, breach of contract, and fraud," according to attorney Ken Mollins, who is representing the plaintiffs.Although the suit, which does not seeks specific damages but calls on the court to award "a sum to be determined at trial," was filed by two individuals, Mollins entered the claim as a class-action, which would allow other residents to join as plaintiffs."This has the potential to be the biggest class-action lawsuit ever with possibly 1 million individuals joining," Mollins said.Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – David McCue stands near the roof of his beach house, which was completely demolished by Superstorm Sandy, in Ortley Beach, New Jersey, on Sunday, November 25. See photos of the immediate aftermath of Sandy. Hide Caption 1 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Utility workers replace a pole Sunday that was damaged by Superstorm Sandy in Seaside Heights, New Jersey. Hide Caption 2 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Old photographs are laid out to dry on a car hood on Sunday after being removed from a home in Seaside Heights. Hide Caption 3 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Rena McCain cleans out the first floor of her home in Seaside Heights on Sunday. Hide Caption 4 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Little remains of this home in Union Beach, New Jersey, on Tuesday, November 20, after Superstorm Sandy devastated the area. Hide Caption 5 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Wilma Marrero and son Joseph Kendall wait in line about five hours Tuesday for food and other items from a Coney Island distribution point in Brooklyn, New York. Hide Caption 6 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Volunteers on Tuesday remove flooring from a Keansburg, New Jersey, home damaged by the storm. Hide Caption 7 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People walk along a beach in the heavily damaged Rockaway neighborhood in the Queens borough of New York on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 8 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Amy Neukom works to remove sand from her parents' house in Mantoloking, New Jersey, on Friday -- a result of Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 9 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Residents wait for free food in a parking lot in Rockaway on Friday. Hide Caption 10 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – President Barack Obama embraces a local resident on Cedar Grove Avenue during a visit to Staten Island on Thursday, November 15. Hide Caption 11 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People receive free sandwiches from a mobile food distribution center in the Rockaway neighborhood of Queens, New York, on Thursday. Hide Caption 12 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Residents take free clothing Thursday at the Ocean Bay Action Center in Queens. Hide Caption 13 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A tattered U.S. flag flies over the storm-damaged boardwalk in the Rockaway section of Queens on Thursday. Hide Caption 14 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Lisa Baney walks back toward her family's home in Bay Head, New Jersey, after taking a photo of a neighbor's destroyed house Wednesday, November 14. Hide Caption 15 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A living room is filled with sand Wednesday washed in by Superstorm Sandy in Point Pleasant Beach, New Jersey. Two weeks after the storm hit, many residents of the seaside town remain without power. Hide Caption 16 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People wait in line to receive free food from the American Red Cross on Wednesday in the heavily damaged Rockaway neighborhood of Queens, New York. Thousands are still without power and heat. Hide Caption 17 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People walk past a destroyed miniature golf attraction Wednesday in Point Pleasant, New Jersey. Hide Caption 18 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Heavy equipment operator Bill Unger carries photos he salvaged from a mass dump of household possessions on Tuesday in the Midland Beach area of the Staten Island. Unger said he's been collecting the photos as he cleans and taking them to his daughter, who is posting them on Facebook for neighborhood residents to find and later collect. Hide Caption 19 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People wait in line to collect some of the 1,500 donated coats from New York Cares on Tuesday in Queens. The charity started its annual coat drive early this year to assist those affected by Superstorm Sandy. It hopes to collect 200,000 coats this winter. Hide Caption 20 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A woman walks past debris on Rockaway Beach on Tuesday. Hide Caption 21 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A New York police officer jumps over a large crack in a boardwalk in Brooklyn on Wednesday, November 14. The boardwalk was damaged by the storm surge from Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 22 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Insurance claims adjusters walk past burned-out houses Wednesday in the Breezy Point section of Queens, New York. A fire that broke out in the neighborhood during the storm destroyed more than 100 homes. Hide Caption 23 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A family friend of a drowning victim of Superstorm Sandy looks through household debris in New York on Tuesday, November 13. Hide Caption 24 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A man looks through the home of a drowning victim Tuesday. Hide Caption 25 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Children wait to board buses to temporary schools in the Rockaway Beach neighborhood of Queens, New York, on Tuesday. The Rockaways peninsula was hit especially hard when Sandy barreled into the East Coast on October 29, unleashing a record storm surge that flooded low-lying areas and fierce winds that toppled trees and power lines. Hide Caption 26 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A home damaged by Sandy is seen in Union Beach, New Jersey, on Monday, November 12. Hide Caption 27 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A resident of Breezy Point in Queens walks past houses destroyed by fire during Sandy on Monday. Hide Caption 28 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Shoes are set out to dry Monday on the steps of a house in an area that was completely flooded on the south side of Staten Island in New York City. Hide Caption 29 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Dale Freeman stands in his water-damaged apartment in a public housing building that still doesn't have power on Monday in Brooklyn. About 58,000 customers in the Rockaways, Long Island and Brooklyn require more extensive repairs before electricity can be restored. Hide Caption 30 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Residents who returned to their damaged homes line up for a hot meal served from a Red Cross vehicle on Samson Avenue in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, on Monday. Hide Caption 31 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A home damaged by Sandy lists in Mantoloking, New Jersey, on Monday. Hide Caption 32 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – One room has power Monday in Rockaway, where many areas are still without electricity. "If you don't have your power back, it probably means power can't be restored to your home at this time," New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Monday afternoon. Hide Caption 33 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Debris strewen by Superstorm Sandy sits piled outside a damaged home in Mantoloking, New Jersey, on Monday. Hide Caption 34 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People line up to receive donated items from Catholic Charities of Brooklyn and Queens at Visitation of the Blessed Virgin Mary Catholic Church in Brooklyn on Monday. Hide Caption 35 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People gather for donated food beneath a spotlight in an area still without power on Monday in Rockaway. Hide Caption 36 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Roofers repair damage Monday on a home in the Annadale neighborhood of Staten Island. Hide Caption 37 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – An SUV sits atop the debris from a home in Mantoloking, New Jersey, on Monday. Hide Caption 38 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A woman makes her way past trash piles in Lower Manhattan on Monday. Hide Caption 39 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A man looks through donated clothes and supplies at nightfall Monday in Rockaway. Hide Caption 40 of 40As of Tuesday night over 13,000 customers still remained in the dark, according to LIPA's Storm Center.Mollins is seeking accountability from the utility companies and believes they did not properly prepare for Sandy."In the week before the storm they did nothing to prepare," said Mollins. "They took no evasive action whatsoever."In response to inquiries from CNN about the suit, LIPA spokesman Mark Gross said, "At this time we are focusing on completing restoration for our customers."National Grid, a multinational company based in the United Kingdom, responded with a statement saying its workers are focusing on completing restoration and that they "continue to work with local officials and relief agencies to provide ongoing support to those communities and to be there for our customers."CNN Legal Analyst Paul Callan who has experience in class-action lawsuits, does not believe this will be an easy win for Long Island residents because they will have to prove that the utility companies were negligent in planning for the storm.Callan believes LIPA can easily state that the catastrophic event exceeded everybody's expectations. "Ultimately, it's Mother Nature that bears the responsibility."Long Island residents, meanwhile, echo the plaintiffs' attorney in criticizing the power companies."LIPA had horrible, horrible communication," said Susan Parker, who was out of power for two full weeks.Parker, however, doesn't believe she will participate in the class-action lawsuit. "I feel very lucky that all I lost was my power, I just keep thinking priorities and what some other people have lost," she said.Long Island resident Mitch Gerson also believes LIPA failed to appropriately communicate with customers."There's absolutely no question in my mind that LIPA did a terrible job." Gerson said. He and his family were displaced from their home for over 12 days, he said, adding that the difficulties from that situation will be a factor in deciding whether he and his family will join the lawsuit.The lawsuit, which was filed in state court, came the same day that New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo bluntly criticized LIPA and called for its overhaul at a press conference."LIPA has been beyond repair for a long, long time," Cuomo said on Tuesday, "I believe it needs to be overhauled and you need a new system."In the midst of heavy criticism for the company, the chief operating officer of Long Island Power Authority, Mike Hervey, announced his resignation on Tuesday, effective at the end of 2012, according to a statement from LIPA.