Photos: War hero's new legacy – Linwood Cemetery in Macon, Georgia, fell into disrepair over the years, prompting families and volunteers to clean the site and graves, including that of Marine Sgt. Rodney Davis. Thanks to one of the men Davis saved in Vietnam, veterans have rallied to create a lasting legacy to Davis this Veterans Day weekend. Hide Caption 1 of 11Photos: War hero's new legacy – Volunteers clear the overgrown brush from Linwood Cemetery, which tells the story of Macon's African-American community. Sgt. Rodney Davis' mother insisted on burying him there, instead of Arlington National Cemetery. Davis' sister, Debra Ray said: "Mother would say if Rodney wasn't there nobody would care about the cemetery." Hide Caption 2 of 11Photos: War hero's new legacy – Linwood opened in 1894, more than 90 years before Georgia required cemetery operators to provide perpetual care. For decades, families lovingly maintained the graves. The Davis family kept Rodney's plot free of grass and weeds for many years. But without full-time, professional maintenance, markers and monuments sank into the ground. Much of the acreage is now forested, the undergrowth almost impenetrable. Hide Caption 3 of 11Photos: War hero's new legacy – Volunteers from Macon's African-American community and Marine veterans organizations have been working to clear Linwood and build a lasting monument to Davis, Macon's only Medal of Honor recipient. Here, Davis' older brother Gordon, Gordon's wife, Josephine, and Nicholas Warr, a Vietnam veteran, discuss the project. Hide Caption 4 of 11Photos: War hero's new legacy – The nonprofit Macon Cemetery Preservation Corp., established a decade ago to care for the cemetery, faces mammoth challenges -- from groundskeeping to fund-raising. With a $15,000 annual budget, it depends on volunteers who take part in monthly work parties. Those monthly cleanups have uncovered dozens of graves swallowed by vegetation. Hide Caption 5 of 11Photos: War hero's new legacy – Keepsakes of Sgt. Rodney Davis at the home where he grew up in Macon. Hide Caption 6 of 11Photos: War hero's new legacy – Sgt. Rodney Davis' sister, Debra Ray, standing, and brother Gordon Davis Jr. look at a letter with Gordon's wife, Josephine. The family has a collection of letters written by the Marine after he enlisted in 1961. Hide Caption 7 of 11Photos: War hero's new legacy – Rodney Davis was a tall youngster, who spoke out for what he believed in. He seemed to be acutely attuned to kids picking on other kids. He didn't allow it to happen in his presence. "He was a forceful personality," says Josephine Davis. "He really believed in protecting the underdog." Hide Caption 8 of 11Photos: War hero's new legacy – Davis' photo and Medal of Honor are displayed at the Tubman African American Museum in Macon. Hide Caption 9 of 11Photos: War hero's new legacy – For years, travelers on Interstate 75 have seen these letters and wooden sign honoring Davis at Linwood Cemetery. The letters remain but a granite monument this week replaced the sign. Hide Caption 10 of 11