Photos: "The Forgotten Cowboys" 'The Forgotten Cowboys' – Jason Griffin (center) is one of the stars of "The Forgotten Cowboys," a documentary film by John Ferguson and Gregg MacDonald which follows the lives of black cowboys in the U.S. Hide Caption 1 of 12Photos: "The Forgotten Cowboys" 'The Forgotten Cowboys' – For the last two years, Ferguson has been researching black cowboy history and filming modern cowboys on the ranch and at rodeos. He tells CNN about his experience. Hide Caption 2 of 12Photos: "The Forgotten Cowboys" 'The Forgotten Cowboys' – "The reason ... I am doing the project is because I want to raise ... awareness of the black cowboys," Ferguson says. Hide Caption 3 of 12Photos: "The Forgotten Cowboys" 'The Forgotten Cowboys' – Ferguson: "Eighty percent of Americans don't know about the black cowboys. I just want to highlight the black cowboy story." Hide Caption 4 of 12Photos: "The Forgotten Cowboys" 'The Forgotten Cowboys' – "They are white, black, Chinese: They are cowboys, they look cool, they act cool, they even walk cool," says Ferguson. Hide Caption 5 of 12Photos: "The Forgotten Cowboys" 'The Forgotten Cowboys' – "I like the passion they have. Everything they really want is being cowboy. It's not a hobby, it's not them playing cowboys -- they are the cowboys," says Ferguson. Hide Caption 6 of 12Photos: "The Forgotten Cowboys" 'The Forgotten Cowboys' – "The more I look into it, the more amazed I am by the history of the black cowboys," says Ferguson. Hide Caption 7 of 12Photos: "The Forgotten Cowboys" 'The Forgotten Cowboys' – "This is Texas, so most of these people have grown up working with horses. Most of their fathers and grandfathers were cowboys. It goes back centuries, so it's not hobby for them, it's their life," says Ferguson. Hide Caption 8 of 12Photos: "The Forgotten Cowboys" 'The Forgotten Cowboys' – "They look after the cattle, the farms -- it's their work. Some of them are rodeo cowboys -- they are part-time cowboys -- but for others, it's the real job," says Ferguson. Hide Caption 9 of 12Photos: "The Forgotten Cowboys" "The Forgotten Cowboys" – "They are very open community; anybody can come and see them. See their lives. They are not looking for publicity, it's their lives." Hide Caption 10 of 12Photos: "The Forgotten Cowboys" "The Forgotten Cowboys" – "80 per cent of Americans do not know about the black cowboys. I just want to highlight the black cowboy story." Hide Caption 11 of 12