Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Penn State students wait in line to vote in the student union building on the State College, Pennsylvania, campus on Tuesday. Hide Caption 1 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Voters cast their ballots in Mansfield, Texas. Hide Caption 2 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A man exits a voting booth at a fire station in Point Pleasant, New Jersey. As the New Jersey coastline continues to recover from Superstorm Sandy, numerous polling stations have had to merge and relocate due to storm damage and power outages. Hide Caption 3 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Samantha Pelletier shows off her voting sticker outside Bristol's old Town Hall. Hide Caption 4 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A man votes inside the Town Hall in Franconia, Minnesota. Hide Caption 5 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Adults of the Uddin family, originally from Bangladesh, vote together at the Hightower Elementary School polling site in Doraville, Georgia. Hide Caption 6 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – An elderly women casts her vote at Salem Baptist Church in Sparta, Virginia. Hide Caption 7 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A sign directs disabled voters to a polling site entrance at the Graham & Parks School in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 8 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – People line up to cast their ballots at the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library in Washington, D.C. Hide Caption 9 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Kezia Gipson, 3, waits with her grandparents Doris Ross and Freddie Irvin in a voting line at the International Longshoremen's Association Office in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 10 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A man puts on an "I Voted" sticker after casting his ballot in Otter Creek, Iowa, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 11 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A voter's shadow appears on the wall as he arrives at a Phoenix, Arizona, polling station Tuesday. Hide Caption 12 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Robert Palmer, left, and Pat Payne wait in line to cast their vote at Mount Pleasant Baptist Church in Kansas City, Missouri. Hide Caption 13 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Horse Gall precinct clerk David Smith talks with poll worker and daughter-in-law Charlene Smith at the home of his father, Vincent Smith, in Varnville, South Carolina. The precinct's polling place is in the elder Smith's den. Hide Caption 14 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Three-term Democratic congressman and U.S. Senate candidate Chris Murphy casts his vote with his 1-year-old son Rider at Cheshire High School in Cheshire, Connecticut. Hide Caption 15 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A woman walks out of a polling place after voting in South Jordan, Utah. The Jordan River Utah Temple of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is visible in the background. Hide Caption 16 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A voter casts her ballot in the gymnasium of Douglas Elementary School in Raleigh, North Carolina. Hide Caption 17 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Gaberyel Chandler casts his vote with the help of safety patrol officer Cheyenne Roberts during a mock presidential election Tuesday at Emerald Shores Elementary School in Ocala, Florida. Hide Caption 18 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A carved pumpkin greets voters at Hinkle Fieldhouse in Indianapolis, Indiana. Hide Caption 19 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Kaira Ray watches as her grandmother Theresa Bigl votes at the old Town Hall in Bristol, New Hampshire. Hide Caption 20 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A poll worker directs people to a temporary polling center in the Coney Island section of Brooklyn, New York. Polling sites in Coney Island and the surrounding area were damaged during Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 21 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Amy O'Neill, left, and Michelle Nowakowski show off an "I Voted" sticker on their Boston terrier Penny in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Hide Caption 22 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Voters cast their ballots at Dunbar High School in Washington, D.C. Hide Caption 23 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – People cast their ballots inside a decorator's garage in South Philadelphia on Tuesday. Hide Caption 24 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A person votes at George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia. Hide Caption 25 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A jogger on The Strand in the Los Angeles area community of Hermosa Beach passes a directional sign to a polling place at sunrise Tuesday. Hide Caption 26 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Darrick West stands at a voting booth at Salem Baptist Church, on Tuesday in Sparta, Virginia. Hide Caption 27 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A voter takes a moment to read a paper ballot before casting her vote on Chicago's Northside. Hide Caption 28 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Voters mark paper ballots at Halloran Skating Rink in Cleveland, Ohio. Hide Caption 29 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Derrick Banks wears an "I Voted" sticker on his forehead after casting his ballot in Chicago. Hide Caption 30 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Mitt Romney and his wife, Ann, kiss after casting their votes in Belmont, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 31 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Republican vice presidential candidate U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan and his family head to the polls in Janesville, Wisconsin. Hide Caption 32 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – An election worker helps President Barack Obama as he votes early at the Martin Luther King Community Center in Chicago on October 25. Hide Caption 33 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Vice President Joe Biden, center, heads toward the voting booth in Greenville, Delaware. Hide Caption 34 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Stickers for voters are seen at Tremont Elementary School in Cleveland, Ohio. Hide Caption 35 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Voters line up to cast their vote at the Boston Public Library in Romney's home state of Massachusetts. Hide Caption 36 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Citizens wait in line at a polling station in a senior appartment complex in Chicago. Hide Caption 37 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A citizen votes at Carleton Middle School in Sterling Heights, Michigan. Hide Caption 38 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Voters line up at the Mount Pleasant Library early Tuesday in Cleveland, Ohio. Hide Caption 39 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Voters in Dixville Notch, New Hampshire, wait to cast the first Election Day ballots of the U.S. presidential race shortly after midnight. The village has opened polls early since 1960, but for the first time in its history, there was a tie. Obama and Romney each received five votes. Hide Caption 40 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Voters wait outside the Johnson County election office in Olathe, Kansas, on Monday, November 5, the last day of early voting. Hide Caption 41 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Residents of Ocean County vote in Toms River, New Jersey, on Monday. A special early mail voting arrangement allows residents of the areas affected by Superstorm Sandy to vote in person with a mail-in ballot on short notice. Hide Caption 42 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Two-year-old Ariel Ferreras accompanies his mother, Erika, as she votes in Silver Spring, Maryland, on Friday, November 2. Voters in Maryland broke the state's record for early voting turnout. Hide Caption 43 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Early voters fill out their ballots on the first day of early voting in Miami on October 27. Early voting in the swing state of Florida was held for eight straight 12-hour days. Hide Caption 44 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Carol Braddock of Los Angeles casts her vote in Norwalk, California, on October 25. Hide Caption 45 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Jalani Hervey, 5, waits with his grandmother, Victoria Gross, while she stands in line to cast a ballot during early voting in Milwaukee on October 22. Hide Caption 46 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Election judges William Moeller, left, and Harry Sabin transfer ballots from a drop box outside of the library in Denver on October 22. Hide Caption 47 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Phignora Brown, left, gets assistance from a polling station worker as she casts her ballot on the first day of early voting in Las Vegas on October 20. Hide Caption 48 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Electronic voting authorization cards are returned at the East Las Vegas Community Center polling station on October 20. Hide Caption 49 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A man uses a touch screen voting booth to cast his ballot on the first day of early voting in Washington on October 22. Hide Caption 50 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Jaime Grant carries her 11-month-old daughter, Brynn, and holds her 3-year-old son Brian's hand as she casts her ballot during early voting in College Park, Georgia, on October 19. Hide Caption 51 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – A voter displays an "I Voted" sticker on her lapel after voting early in Wilson, North Carolina, on October 18. Hide Caption 52 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Kalli Hannafious holds her daughter Averie as she signs in for early voting in Anchorage, Alaska on October 2. Hide Caption 53 of 55Photos: Photos: America heads to the polls America heads to the polls – Jerry Nagel fills in his ballot during early voting at the Black Hawk County Courthouse in Waterloo, Iowa, on September 27, the first day of early voting in the state. Hide Caption 54 of 55