Photos: Photos: Health care and the high court Health care and the high court – Supporters of the health care legislation celebrate after the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in a 5-4 ruling on June 28, 2012. Hide Caption 1 of 12Photos: Photos: Health care and the high court Health care and the high court – Journalists and supporters and protesters of the health care law gather outside the Supreme Court after the justices ruled in favor of its constitutionality in a narrow decision. Hide Caption 2 of 12Photos: Photos: Health care and the high court Health care and the high court – Protesters against the health care law rally outside the Supreme Court before the justices issue their ruling Thursday. Hide Caption 3 of 12Photos: Photos: Health care and the high court Health care and the high court – Reporters and camera crews begin waiting early Thursday outside the Supreme Court in anticipation of the court's health care ruling. Hide Caption 4 of 12Photos: Photos: Health care and the high court Health care and the high court – President Barack Obama signs the health care legislation in a March 23, 2010, ceremony with Democrats in the White House East Room. The law, which critics dubbed Obamacare, is Obama's signature legislation. Hide Caption 5 of 12Photos: Photos: Health care and the high court Health care and the high court – The constitutionality of the 2,409-page act was challenged by 26 states. The most controversial aspect of the law -- the "individual mandate" -- would require individuals not covered by insurance via their employer or the government to purchase and maintain minimal health insurance or pay a penalty. Hide Caption 6 of 12Photos: Photos: Health care and the high court Health care and the high court – The Supreme Court held three days of politically charged hearings in March on the Affordable Care Act. Hide Caption 7 of 12Photos: Photos: Health care and the high court Health care and the high court – Opponents of Obama's health care legislation protest in front of the Supreme Court on March 28. Critics argued the law's requirement that most Americans have health insurance or pay a fine was an unconstitutional intrusion on individual freedom. Hide Caption 8 of 12Photos: Photos: Health care and the high court Health care and the high court – Advocates for universal, government-financed health care carry signs one month before the health care overhaul was signed into law. Hide Caption 9 of 12Photos: Photos: Health care and the high court Health care and the high court – Two years after Obama signed the health care legislation, the Supreme Court took up the historic test of whether it's constitutional. Hide Caption 10 of 12Photos: Photos: Health care and the high court Health care and the high court – The Rev. Patrick Mahoney leads demonstrators in prayer outside the Supreme Court on Monday, June 25, as they await the court's ruling. Hide Caption 11 of 12