Story highlights Roughly 94% of schools in New York City are openA forecast nor'easter could complicate recovery effortsNew York governor says "displaced" shouldn't mean "disenfranchised"A Long Islander is more worried about looters than votingOne week after Superstorm Sandy beat up the Northeast, tearing apart homes and lives in New Jersey, New York and other areas, there's another worry on the horizon: A nor'easter is comingRain is forecast to move in early Wednesday and will gradually become heavier, according to CNN meteorologists . As the day goes on, the weather will get worse, with daytime temperatures hovering in the 40s. At night it could get down to the 20s -- bad news for the 127,000 customers who are still without power, according to Con Edison. Working round the clock, the company said Tuesday that more than 846,000 customers who lost power -- 87% -- have it again.A nor'easter is a strong low pressure system with powerful northeasterly winds coming from the ocean ahead of a storm. Predicted 60-mph gusts could hurt the already ravaged Jersey Shore . Coastal flooding and beach erosion are possible.Of course there's a strong concern for everyone's safety, too. Sandy left 110 people dead in the United States, and on its way to the country, it took the lives of 69 people."When it rains, it pours. When it storms, you get more storms, I guess," said New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo.Under normal conditions, the nor'easter wouldn't be problematic, he said, but because many areas are still picking up the pieces from last week, it could cause fresh havoc.On Monday, authorities in Brick, New Jersey, ordered residents in the low-lying waterfront areas of town to leave.The storm is not another Sandy, and its path and severity could change, according to CNN meteorologists.Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Friends and members of the Puglia family sift through the remains of their missing home for valuables on November 6, 2012, after Hurricane Sandy hit Staten Island, New York. View photos of New York preparing for Sandy. Hide Caption 1 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A part of a house that floated off its foundation during the storm now sits in the middle of a coastal estuary in the Oakwood Beach area of Staten Island. Hide Caption 2 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – New York City police officers and a resident warm up in front of a fire in a blacked-out area of Oakwood Beach on Staten Island. Hide Caption 3 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A woman looks through a sand covered parking lot used as a donation center on November 5 in the Rockaway neighborhood of the Queens borough of New York City. Hide Caption 4 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Volunteers who call themselves the Broad Channel Police Department help clean a neighbor's damaged house. Hide Caption 5 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People wait in line for food at a distribution center at Coney Island. Hide Caption 6 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A dump truck empties trash collected from homes damaged by Superstorm Sandy on Saturday, November 3, in the Midland Beach neighborhood of Staten Island, New York. New York is trying to clean up and resume normal activities days after the storm hit. Hide Caption 7 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A volunteer places donated clothing in plastic bags to protect it from potential rain at a relief center on Saturday in Midland Beach. Hide Caption 8 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A damaged chair sits on the beach in low-lying Coney Island on Saturday. Hide Caption 9 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A man salvages a set of drums at Rockaway Beach in Queens, New York, on Saturday. Most of the Rockaway Peninsula remains without power. Hide Caption 10 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People gather among debris from Superstorm Sandy and boxes of donated goods on Saturday in Rockaway Beach. Hide Caption 11 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Boats that were swept aground during Sandy sit against homes near a marina on Staten Island on Friday, November 2. Hide Caption 12 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Eddie Liu uses a broom to clean up mud and water from a flooded coin laundry in Coney Island on Friday. Hide Caption 13 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Michelle Dumas hugs her daughter Olivia to warm her up as they wait in an hours-long line for gas at a station Friday on Staten Island. Hide Caption 14 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Men try to clean up the destruction in a flooded deli in Brooklyn, New York, on Friday. Hide Caption 15 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Members of the Traina family on Friday sort through photographs and other personal items from their Staten Island home that was destroyed by Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 16 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – In the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, replacement power utility poles are transported along Old Country Road on Friday in Plainview, New York. Hide Caption 17 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Abandoned and flooded cars are piled up on Friday, November 2, in the heavily damaged Rockaway neighborhood, in Queens, where a large section of a landmark boardwalk was washed away. Hide Caption 18 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Food trucks and men selling bread and cheeses line Broadway at Union Square on Friday in New York as the city recovers from the effects of Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 19 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Debris piles up near the foundations of the iconic boardwalk, which was washed away in the Rockaway neighborhood in Queens. Hide Caption 20 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A man rides his bike through the heavily damaged Rockaway neighborhood. Hide Caption 21 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Matthew Mark Meyer, left, and Annie Barwick, center, sit in a darkened Randolf Beer Restaurant which is using generator power to reopen on Friday in New York City. Hide Caption 22 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People walk through the heavily damaged Rockaway neighborhood. Hide Caption 23 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Commuters pack into a train on Thursday in New York City. Limited public transit has returned to the city, where 14 of 23 subway lines are running. Hide Caption 24 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Commuters ride the subway. Public transit is operating in New York City, but travel times are long, up to five hours in some cases. Hide Caption 25 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A police officer directs passengers waiting on Thursday to board city buses into Manhattan at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn. About 4,000 buses are replacing the subway lines still closed by Superstorm Sandy damage. Hide Caption 26 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Thousands of people wait to board city buses into Manhattan, and some subway lines remain underwater. Getting water out of the tunnels is "one of the main orders of business right now," Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Thursday. Hide Caption 27 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A police officer directs traffic entering the Brooklyn Queens Expressway into Manhattan. Hide Caption 28 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A police officer checks cars entering the Brooklyn Queens Expressway to confirm that they have three occupants before allowing them to cross into Manhattan on Thursday. Limited public transit has returned to New York, and most major bridges have reopened. However, vehicles must have three occupants to pass. Hide Caption 29 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Parts of lower Manhattan are still without electricity on Thursday. Superstorm Sandy, which made landfall along the New Jersey shore on Monday, October 29, left much of the Eastern Seaboard without power, including much of Manhattan south of 34th Street. Hide Caption 30 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Residents of New York City's East Village enjoy a bonfire on Wednesday, October 31. Hide Caption 31 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – East Village residents charge their phones with power from a generator on Wednesday. Hide Caption 32 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Traffic snarls in New York City on Wednesday. Residents and businesses across the Eastern Seaboard are attempting to return to their daily lives in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 33 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A Caring Foundation worker hands out food to residents of the heavily damaged Rockaway section of Queens on Wednesday. Hide Caption 34 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Water floods streets in the Rockaway section of Queens on Wednesday. Hide Caption 35 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Traders stand outside of the New York Stock Exchange in New York on Wednesday. Stocks advanced as U.S. equity markets resumed trading for the first time this week after the storm. Hide Caption 36 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A man surveys damage on Wednesday, October 31, in the Rockaway neighborhood of Queens, New York, where the historic boardwalk was washed away during Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 37 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Residents walk with their belongings through the Rockaway section of Queens on Wednesday. Hide Caption 38 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – The remains of homes burned down in Rockaway are seen Wednesday, a day after an inferno spread across the flooded neighborhood. Hide Caption 39 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Firefighters continued to survey the damage in Rockaway on Wednesday. At least 80 homes were destroyed. Hide Caption 40 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People wait for buses on Sixth Avenue in New York on Wednesday as New Yorkers cope with the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 41 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People attempt to squish into a crowded bus on First Avenue in New York on Wednesday. Hide Caption 42 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Con Edison crew members work on a steam pipe on First Avenue on Wednesday. Hide Caption 43 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – The foundations to the historic Rockaway boardwalk in Brooklyn are all that remain after it was washed away Wednesday during Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 44 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People walk to work Wednesday on a normally busy street near the New York Stock Exchange. Hide Caption 45 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday after it had been closed for two days. Hide Caption 46 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Commuters arrive in Manhattan by ferry from Jersey City, New Jersey, on its first day back in business after Sandy. Hide Caption 47 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – CNN iReporter Jordan Shapiro captured this view of the Williamsburg Bridge in New York at 11 p.m. on Tuesday, October 30. Half of the bridge and Brooklyn is lit, while the Manhattan side and the surrounding part of the island remain shrouded in darkness. Hide Caption 48 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A subway station and escalator sit underwater in New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 49 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Much of the New York City skyline sits in darkness Tuesday evening after damage from Superstorm Sandy knocked out power. About 6.9 million customers are without power in 15 states and the District of Columbia, according to figures compiled by CNN from power companies. Hide Caption 50 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, center, views the damage Tuesday in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, where a fire broke out during Superstorm Sandy and destroyed at least 80 homes. Hide Caption 51 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A resident looks through the debris of his destroyed home in Breezy Point, Queens, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 52 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Burned-out vehicles and destroyed homes line a street in Breezy Point, located on the western end of the Rockaway peninsula in New York. Hide Caption 53 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A fire continues to burn Tuesday in the remains of a structure that was destroyed by the Breezy Point blaze. Hide Caption 54 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A New York City man hands a dog to first responders while being evacuated on Tuesday. Hide Caption 55 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A bartender at the International Bar in the East Village neighborhood of New York City makes drinks in the dark on Tuesday as electricity remains out for many in the city. Hide Caption 56 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Water floods the Plaza Shops in New York, in the wake of Superstorm Sandy, on Tuesday, October 30. Hide Caption 57 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Con Edison employees monitor the drainage of water being pumped out of Seven World Trade Center in the Financial District of New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 58 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Onlookers watch a construction crane dangling from a $1.5 billion luxury high-rise after collapsing in high winds. Hide Caption 59 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – The construction crane dangles from a high-rise in midtown Manhattan. Hide Caption 60 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Ramiro Arcos clears debris from a storm drain in the Financial District of New York after Sandy swept through the city. Hide Caption 61 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A couple walks in the rain Tuesday, with the East River and the Lower Manhattan skyline as a backdrop. Hide Caption 62 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – The Manhattan skyline remains dark after much of the city lost electricity in the storm. Hide Caption 63 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Cars float in a flooded below-street-level parking area in the Financial District on Tuesday. Hide Caption 64 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People take a Tuesday morning walk on the Brooklyn Bridge, which remains closed to traffic after the city awakened to the storm damage. Hide Caption 65 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – . A car sits crushed by a tree in the Financial District on Tuesday. Photos: New York braces for Sandy Hide Caption 66 of 66JUST WATCHED Giuliani criticizes Obama on Sandy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Giuliani criticizes Obama on Sandy 04:07JUST WATCHED Panic fuels long gas lines after Sandy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Panic fuels long gas lines after Sandy 01:20JUST WATCHED The Red Cross on delayed Sandy response Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The Red Cross on delayed Sandy response 02:19"I haven't even really thought about the nor'easter," said Ryan Hanley.The 27-year-old's chief worry is the home she had to abandon in Wantagh, on New York's Long Island. It's 4 feet deep in water. All her belongings are on the curb."I cannot think right now about voting (in Tuesday's presidential election) either," she said. "I don't even know where to go if I wanted to vote."To help with such concerns, Cuomo signed an order Monday allowing affidavit voting. Basically, what that means is that voters registered in a federally declared disaster county can vote at any poll site in the state by signing an affidavit."We want everyone to vote. Just because you're displaced doesn't mean you should be disenfranchised," the governor said.Voters in some New York counties may get an extra day to cast ballots if disruptions caused by Sandy prevent enough citizens from voting, a state official said Sunday. New Jersey announced that residents displaced by Sandy can vote in Tuesday's elections via e-mail or fax , the first time civilians in the state have been allowed to vote remotely.At least two polling places in Connecticut have been changed due to Sandy -- one in Bridgeport and another in New LondonSigns that people are working hard to move on after Sandy can be found across New York.Construction work started again Monday at the 9/11 ground zero site, which was flooded by Sandy.Some 94% of schools in New York City were open Monday, according to the mayor, and the subway system is back in operation. New York officials said they are investigating reports of price gouging after receiving hundreds of complaints from consumers who say business owners have jacked up prices on hotel rooms, generators, food and water.In everyday lives, progress can't come fast enough.Hanley is living with her boyfriend's family a few towns away from Wantagh, and her confusion about where to vote is a secondary concern right now."I've heard from neighbors who are still around there that we've had looters," she said."What am I supposed to do right now? How do I deal with that?" she said. "I don't have electricity, so I cannot pump the water. It is just sitting there. Whether someone takes what we have ... I have no control over that. I have no control over any of it."Hanley has been talking with her insurance company. But she said she hasn't been able to reach a real person with the Federal Emergency Management Agency yet."We have not been directly contacted, nor can we reach anyone when we call," she said.While Hanley struggles with the bureaucracy of post-disaster life, many others are receiving help from the Red Cross, which has opened 190 shelters along the Eastern Seaboard. The organization has hundreds of disaster workers on standby with emergency supplies.'It's a humbling experience'Katie Fairley, a Staten Islander who lives in New Dorp, one of the harder-hit areas, said she's seen people sleeping in their cars.A 51-year-old vice president for finance at a health care facility, Fairley said lines for food and for gas are blocks long."Thank God, we have each other here," she said, insisting that Staten Islanders have been forgotten.Another Staten Islander, Tara Saylor, spent her weekend volunteering to hand out clothing and food. The 25-year-old works at a Manhattan interior design showroom. She and her home on a hill in St. George escaped Sandy's wrath.Helping people touched her deeply."I was almost crying when people are thanking me," she said. "(They were) throwing their family photos out in the middle of the street. It's a humbling experience. You really begin to appreciate what you have."In the Long Island community of Floral Park, Kevin Cordova's family members tried cooking hot food to stay warm and wore their coats indoors. His house is uninhabitable, thanks to Sandy."There's really no amount of blankets that can stop you from being cold in 30-degree weather," the 28-year-old said. "We feel a little homeless right now. We have our house, but we can't really use it."Teacher: 'I want them to tell their stories'To the southwest in Red Bank, New Jersey, about a 90-minute drive from Floral Park, Chris Ippolito has been luckier than many folks. So far, he's only had to wrestle with sporadic power outages. But his mother-in-law's home was severely flooded.Her historic house, more than 100 years old, sat a block from the ocean in Monmouth County.Her family built it, and she spent her childhood there.She left the house before Sandy hit, so she's physically all right. But she's devastated by the loss."It's incredibly difficult for her," Ippolito said.Things are returning to some semblance of normalcy, he said.CNN reached Ippolito shortly after he had delivered food and supplies to a local firehouse."Businesses are breathing back to life," he said. "Schools are limping back to life."Ippolito is a high school teacher. His district is closed for now, but he's thinking about all his students."I want them to tell their stories, to feel like they can open up if they want or need to," he said.He'll use his free time Tuesday to cast his vote for president."I understand that voting isn't the priority for a lot of people who are dealing with more immediate needs," he said. "But I'm not going to miss it."