A lingering winter storm dumps more snow and ice, world leaders gather to honor Nelson Mandela, and a gay New Jersey waitress loses her job.It's Monday, and here are the "5 Things to Know for Your New Day."1. WINTER STORMIce, ice, baby:Texas got it over the weekend, and the East Coast gets it today. The National Weather Service says the worst will be from central Virginia to southeast New York. Some areas might see a quarter-inch of ice before temperatures rise late Monday morning and the storm system moves on. Any fallout? Sure, just look at all stranded travelers who are now living at airports. The nasty wintry weather canceled thousands of flights - a good number of them at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.2. MANDELAMemorial service:Dozens of world leaders are on their way to Johannesburg to mourn anti-apartheid leader and former South African President Nelson Mandela. President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama, joined by former Presidents George W. Bush, Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter, will travel to South Africa to pay tribute. More than 90 heads of state and 10 former heads of state are expected to attend. This is expected to be the largest gathering of leaders in Africa's history. The memorial service is being held tomorrow at a 90,000-seat soccer stadium, but that may not be enough to accommodate all those who wish to attend.Poet and civil rights activist Maya Angelou pays tribute to Mandela in a poem called "His Day is Done." You can find it on YouTube.3. GAY WAITRESSNo tip? No job:Dayna Morales, a gay waitress who initially got lots of online love after she reported getting stiffed by a family that didn't agree with her lifestyle, is now looking for a new job. She was terminated by Gallop Asian Bistro in New Jersey after an internal investigation into allegations that she made up the story. The investigation followed a report on television station NBC4 that displayed a receipt from a family showing an $18 tip on a bill of $93.55, and a credit card statement with the same total value, $111.55, to back it up. The restaurant couldn't determine exactly what happened between Morales and the family but said a joint decision was made to part ways..4. THRILL KILLINGJust because:Troy LaFerrara was the unlucky one. Newlyweds Elytte and Miranda Barbour were just looking for someone to kill together, police say. The couple lured him through a Craigslist ad last month - one looking for "men who wanted companionship" with a woman and were willing to pay for it. The Barbours had tried before, but it just didn't work out. Police say that while her husband hid in the back under a blanket, Miranda picked LaFerrara up in her red Honda CR-V, driving him to a rural area in Pennsylvania. Once there, Elytte popped up, slipped a cord around LaFerrara's neck and strangled him as Miranda stabbed him. They dumped the body, cleaned up a bit and headed to a strip club. After all, it was Elytte's 22nd birthday. Police say the couple faces a host of charges, including criminal homicide. It's similar to first-degree murder.Off a cliff:Another case involving a newlywed couple heads to trial today. Jordan Linn Graham faces first- and second-degree murder charges in the death of her 25-year-old husband, Cody Johnson. Prosecutors have accused her of murdering her husband by shoving him off a cliff at Glacier National Park in Montana. Her federal public defender says Johnson's death was an accident.5. FORMER SAN DIEGO MAYORPaying the price:It's sentencing day for former San Diego Mayor Bob Filner. Under a plea deal, he'll get his punishment for kissing or grabbing three women at campaign events or City Hall. The 71-year-old pleaded guilty in October. There's no prison time, but Filner will get three months of home confinement, three years of probation and mandatory mental health treatment. Fines, court fees and restitution will also be tacked on. This year, 19 women accused him of offensive behavior during his tenure as mayor and as a congressman. Filner served 20 years in Congress before he was elected mayor in November 2012. He resigned at the end of August.Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Silent Night, crazy night:The students at Taylor University in Upland, Indiana, have this fun tradition. It's called Silent Night. At the annual basketball game on the Friday before final exams, the students fill the gym, but stay dead quiet - not a peep - until the 10th point is scored. What happens next, you ask? All you-know-what breaks loose. Students cheer, storm the court, dance ... You get the idea.Uh-oh, SpaghettiOs:What's more patriotic than pasta and Pearl Harbor? Nevermind. The SpaghettiOs PR folks got into some hot water over the weekend, using a certain circular noodle to honor the memory of those who died in the 1941 attack. Perhaps folks thought they weren't taking it seriously enough.Things that make you go hmmm:New York Times political editor Carolyn Ryan has folks in the Twitterverse curious this morning. She's posted a series of cryptic tweets previewing a "groundbreaking story." Of course, lots of folks guess at what it might be. Some serious, some not. One says the story involves Mick Jager confessing to "getting a lot satisfaction since 1966." But, in any case, there's enough interest that it prompts the hashtag #nytguesses.There you go. All you need to know to get an early start to your morning.