Story highlights Pilot noted that airport navigation system wasn't workingComments from pilots revealed by crash investigators at hearingTrainee pilot was flying the Boeing 777 with an instructor beside himInvestigators focus on concern that pilot relied too much on automated systemsThe pilot of an Asiana Airlines jet that crashed in San Francisco this year told investigators after the accident that he had been "very concerned" about landing without help from an airport navigation system that was out of order.Capt. Lee Kang Kuk, who was highly experienced in a Boeing 747 but was transitioning to flying a 777, told the National Transportation Safety Board that he found it "very stressful, very difficult" to land without the glideslope indicator that helps pilots determine whether the plane is too high or too low during approach."Asked whether he was concerned about his ability to perform the visual approach while piloting Asiana Flight 214, he said 'very concerned, yea,'" the safety board revealed at a hearing on Wednesday on its investigation into the July 6 crash that killed three people and injured more than 180 others.The jet struck a sea wall and broke apart on the runway following a missed approach.The navigation aid that syncs up with aircraft instruments was out of service while the Federal Aviation Administration made runway safety improvements. But a second, visual lighting system was operable at the time of the daytime crash and the weather was clear.JUST WATCHED Capt. Sully: Culture can be a problem Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Capt. Sully: Culture can be a problem 03:53Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – In this handout photo released by the National Transportation Safety Board, Asiana Airlines Flight 214 sits just off the runway at San Francisco International Airport on Sunday, July 7. The Boeing 777 coming from Seoul, South Korea, crashed on landing on Saturday, July 6. Three passengers, all girls, died as a result of the first notable U.S. air crash in four years. Hide Caption 1 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A photo showing the damaged interior of the aircraft was released by the NTSB on July 7. The flight carrying 291 passengers and 16 crew took off from Shanghai and stopped in Seoul before heading to San Francisco. Hide Caption 2 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An investigator photographs part of the landing gear at the crash site in a handout released on July 7. Investigators believe that the pilots were flying too slow and too low as they neared the airport on July 6. Hide Caption 3 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An investigator inspects the broken-off tail of the plane in a handout photo released July 7. The crash killed two people, injured 182 and forced the temporary closure of one of the country's largest airports. Hide Caption 4 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An investigator stands near the tail of the plane in a handout photo released on July 7. The NTSB has ruled out weather as a problem and said that conditions were right for a "visual landing." Hide Caption 5 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Investigators approach the crash in a handout photo released on July 7. Hide Caption 6 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Fire crews attempt to quench the blaze on Saturday, July 6. Hide Caption 7 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Smoke rises from the crash site across the San Francisco Bay on July 6. Hide Caption 8 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Asiana Airlines Flight 214 remains on the runway on July 6. Hide Caption 9 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A plane sits on the runway on July 6 while emergency crews tend to the crash site. Hide Caption 10 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A helicopter flies above the wreckage on July 6 as people observe from across the waters of San Francisco Bay. Hide Caption 11 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Travelers at San Francisco International Airport look at the departures and arrivals board after Asiana Flight 214 crashed on July 6. The airport, located 12 miles south of downtown San Francisco, is California's second busiest, behind Los Angeles International. Hide Caption 12 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Kevin Cheng talks on his phone as he waits in the terminal after Asiana Airlines Flight 214 crash-landed on July 6. He said he was supposed to pick up students who were on board the flight from Seoul. Hide Caption 13 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Passengers wait for the British Airways counter to reopen at San Francisco International Airport on July 6. Hide Caption 14 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Police guard the Reflection Room at the San Francisco airport's international terminal, where passengers from Asiana Airlines Flight 214 were reportedly gathering after the crash landing on July 6. Hide Caption 15 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People are escorted from the Reflection Room at the San Francisco International Airport on July 6. Hide Caption 16 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Traffic backs up on U.S. Route 101 South in San Francisco on July 6. The Bay Area airport was closed to incoming and departing traffic after the crash, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. Hide Caption 17 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People look over the wreckage across a cove in San Francisco Bay on July 6. Hide Caption 18 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Deborah Hersman, chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board, speaks to the press at Reagan National Airport in Arlington, Virginia, before departing for San Francisco with an NTSB crew on July 6 to investigate the crash site. Hide Caption 19 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The San Francisco Giants observe a moment of silence for those killed and hurt in the crash before their baseball game on July 6 against the Los Angeles Dodgers at AT&T Park in San Francisco. Hide Caption 20 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Crews comb the end of a San Francisco airport runway following the crash landing on July 6. Hide Caption 21 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People in Seoul watch a news program reporting about the crash landing on July 6 in San Francisco. Asiana Airlines Flight 214 took off from Seoul earlier Saturday. Hide Caption 22 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The plane crashed on July 6 around 11:30 a.m. (2:30 p.m. ET). Hide Caption 23 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People walk past the wreckage of the plane's tail on July 6. Hide Caption 24 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The burned-out plane remains on the runway on July 6. Passengers and crew members escaped down the emergency inflatable slides. Hide Caption 25 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Rescue workers tend to the crash site on July 6. Hide Caption 26 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Debris litters the runway on July 6. Hide Caption 27 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Airport shuttles arrive on the scene after the crash landing. Hide Caption 28 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Wreckage from the Boeing 777 lies on the tarmac on July 6. Hide Caption 29 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Crews surround the remains of the plane on July 6. Hide Caption 30 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Investigators pass the detached tail and landing gear of Asiana Airlines Flight 214 on July 6. Hide Caption 31 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An aerial view shows the site of the crash landing between the runways on July 6. Hide Caption 32 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Smoke rises from the crash site on July 6 at the airport in San Francisco. Hide Caption 33 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Fire crews work at the crash site at San Francisco International Airport on July 6. Hide Caption 34 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The Boeing 777 lies burned on the runway after it crashed landed on July 6. Hide Caption 35 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An aerial photo of the scene on July 6 shows the extent of the plane's damage. Hide Caption 36 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The burned-out plane sits surrounded by emergency vehicles on July 6. Hide Caption 37 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – CNN iReporter Amanda Painter took this photo while waiting at the San Francisco airport on July 6. The entire airport has shut down and flights diverted to other airports. Hide Caption 38 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – iReporter Val Vaden captured this photo while waiting in a departure lounge at the San Francisco airport on July 6. Val observed the billowing smoke and emergency responders' rush in. Hide Caption 39 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – iReporter Sven Duenwald was at home on July 6 when he saw smoke rising into the air near the San Francisco International Airport. Hide Caption 40 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – iReporter Timothy Clark was standing on the eighth floor of the Embassy Suites Airport Hotel when he heard a loud crashing sound from outside. "My daughter told me she heard a plane crash. I used my camera to get a clearer view and I could see a dust cloud. Then people running from the plane, then flames," he said. Hide Caption 41 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A photo provided to CNN by Eunice Bird Rah -- and shot by her father, who was a passenger on the plane -- shows flames and smoke bursting out of many of the aircraft's windows. Hide Caption 42 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – David Eun, a passenger on Asiana Airlines Flight 214, posted this image to Path.com along with the message, "I just crash landed at SFO. Tail ripped off. Most everyone seems fine, I'm ok. Surreal..." It was one of the first photographs taken after the crash. Hide Caption 43 of 43JUST WATCHED New video released of Asiana plane crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New video released of Asiana plane crash 02:00JUST WATCHED Video shows plane's moment of impact Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video shows plane's moment of impact 01:37The safety board investigation is focusing on whether pilots have become overly reliant on automation to fly commercial planes, and whether basic manual flying skills have eroded.Investigators have also focused on the pilot understanding -- or misunderstanding -- of the plane's auto-thrust system, which controls aircraft power.Some of the crew of the Asiana flight from Seoul told investigators the auto thrust was always engaged.But the safety board has said that system was not engaged, and the jet descended in altitude faster than it should have, and had a slower forward speed than intended.The combination put the plane into a perilous situation in the final minute of flight.The relief first officer, Bong Dongwon, who was sitting behind Lee and instructor pilot Lee Jungmin, said he observed the fast descent -- or sink rate -- and called out the excessive sink rate "more than four times."Bong told investigators the pilot appeared to be correcting the "sink rate" and did not advise further changes.But its speed was declining at about the same time. The plane was flying at 170 knots 73 seconds before impact, dropped below the target speed for landing of 137 knots at roughly 38 seconds before impact, and plummeted as low as 103 knots just seconds before the plane's front landing gear and tail hit the sea wall at the end of the runway.The crew made its first reference to the plane's speed problem just seven seconds before the crash.The pilot called out a "go around" -- a command to abort the landing -- three seconds before impact.Boeing's former chief pilot for the B777 program said automated systems are intended to help pilots, but that they still need to exercise diligence."We accept the fact that pilots, as all humans, make errors," he said. Automation is intended "as a tool to aid the pilot, not replace the pilot," he said.Information released at Wednesday's hearing also showed investigators are concerned about the role Korean and airline culture played in the crash.Bong said the crew practiced "cockpit resource management," training that encourages subordinates to speak up about safety concerns to other crew members, despite their senior rank, experience or seniority.But when Lee -- who was considered a student pilot in the 777 -- was asked whether he had contemplated an aborted landing as the plane descended, he said it was a "very hard" decision to make, given the deference shown to superiors in Korean culture.By the time Lee pushed the throttle forward just seconds before impact, he discovered his instructor had already done so.Three passengers died in the accident -- two in the crash and a third on the ground when hit by a rescue truck responding to the scene.The accident was the first fatal commercial airline crash in the United States since February 2009.Crash survivor Ben Levy told CNN he was forfeiting an opportunity to watch the proceedings."I think something that I've done quickly after this plane crash has been to focus on work and family and things that matter to me," Levy said. "I'm extremely happy that something is being done to get to the bottom of what happened that day because it should not have happened."