Story highlights "It's bringing back horrible memories," one woman saysNewtown, Connecticut, marking one-year anniversary of mass shootingAurora theater shooting happened 17 miles from ArapahoeColumbine, site of 1999 mass killing, is about eight miles from ArapahoeThe timing and location of the Arapahoe High School shooting make it certain that memories of other mass shootings won't go away.Arapahoe happened one day before the anniversary of the Newtown, Connecticut, school shooting. It occurred within 17 miles of two other infamous Colorado gun rampages—the Aurora movie theater shooting and Columbine HighThe shooter, identified as 18-year-old Karl Halverson Pierson, shot one student before turning the gun on himself and taking his own life, Sheriff Grayson Robinson said. Arapahoe is in suburban Denver.For some people, the tragedies are linked. A mother who picked up her child from Arapahoe shared her family's anguish."My husband was a freshman at Columbine. He's freaking out right now," she told told CNN affiliate KCNC . "It's bringing back horrible memories of that. And it's just way too close to home."Newtown had hoped to quietly remember what happened on December 14, 2012. Adam Lanza killed 20 first-graders and six adults at the now-demolished Sandy Hook Elementary in what was the second-deadliest school shooting in U.S. history, following the April 2007 slaying of 32 people at Virginia Tech.City leaders asked journalists to stay away and give the community a chance to grieve, and many news organizations had said they would honor that request in some manner. It's not known if they'll stay away in light of Arapahoe.Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Claire Davis, a 17-year-old senior at Arapahoe High School, died Saturday, December 21, eight days after she was shot by a student with a shotgun at the school in Centennial, Colorado. "Despite the best efforts of our physicians and nursing staff, and Claire's fighting spirit, her injuries were too severe," Littleton Adventist Hospital said in a statement. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Arapahoe County Sheriff Grayson Robinson holds a picture of Davis at a press conference on Saturday, December 14, after identifying her as the victim of the shooting at Arapahoe High School the day before. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Robinson identified the shooter as 18-year-old Karl Halverson Pierson, who killed himself after opening fire. Pierson had asked about a specific teacher when he entered the school armed with a shotgun on December 13. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Students are escorted out of Arapahoe High School in Centennial, Colorado, on December 13. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Students wait outside Arapahoe High school after being evacuated on December 13. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Officers escort students out of Arapahoe High School. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Susie Ohle hugs Rob Escue as he came out of the school on Friday afternoon. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Ruben Allen hugs his son Alex Allen, 17, after being evacuated from the school Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Students and parents walk away from the school. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Law enforcement personnel arrive at the high school in a military-style vehicle. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – SaSha Meiler is overcome with emotion after hearing the voice of her younger sister, a freshman. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Parents Cathy Thorson, left, and Heather Moran, facing the camera, embrace while they wait for news on their children. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Students walk away from the school in single file with their hands up. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Students from Arapahoe High School gather at the school's track. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – People gather outside the school. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Parents wait for word about their children after a gunman opened fire at the school. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Members of law enforcement are seen outside the school. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Law enforcement personnel gather near the high school. Hide Caption 18 of 18JUST WATCHED Student: We heard 'Help!' then silence Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Student: We heard 'Help!' then silence 01:04Newtown started an intense national conversation on gun safety but led to little legislative change. Connecticut authorities released a report last month saying they don't know what motivated Lanza, who briefly attended the school. He killed his mother before going to the school and killed himself.Arapahoe High is about 16 miles from Aurora, Colorado, where a gunman killed 12 people and wounded 58 on July 20, 2012, in a movie theater screening a new Batman film.James E. Holmes, then 24, was taken into custody outside the movie theater. Police said he was dressed head-to-toe in protective tactical gear and sprayed the theater with bullets from an AR-15 rifle, a 12-gauge shotgun and at least one of two .40-caliber handguns police recovered at the scene. Holmes had colored his hair red and told police he was "the Joker," police said.Jury selection for Holmes' trial was scheduled to begin in February, but the judge said that process could take eight months. The judge vacated the trial date and has not set a new date.Jordan Ghawi, whose sister was killed in Aurora, shared his feelings on Twitter: "Sitting here at the FD listening to @donlemon on @CNN as my hands are literally shaking. Rush of emotions ranging from solidarity to anger."17 miles away from where my sister was killed. My thoughts are once again with Arapahoe Co and the State of Colorado."On April 20, 1999, the Columbine High mass shooting happened about 8 miles from Arapahoe High. Columbine students Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold killed 12 students and one teacher before fatally shooting themselves in the school library.SWAT teams entered Columbine 47 minutes after the shootings started. Five hours passed before law enforcement declared the school under control.In contrast, the first sheriff's deputies and police officers arrived at Arapahoe and entered almost immediately after the shooting was reported, Sheriff Grayson Robinson said. It is not known if law enforcement altered their protocols because of Columbine.Harris and Klebold made home videos before the attack making references to what they were going to do and apologizing to their parents for it.In the intervening years, Columbine has become a synonym for unfocused, violent teenage rage.Arapahoe is part of the Littleton Public School district and Columbine part of the Jefferson County School District.