Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Repair efforts are under way Tuesday, December 3, at the site of a recent train derailment in the Bronx. At least four people were killed and more than 60 people were injured after a Metro-North passenger train derailed Sunday, December 1, about 10 miles north of Manhattan's Grand Central Terminal. Hide Caption 1 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Cranes lift derailed train cars on Monday, December 2. Hide Caption 2 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – First responders gather around the derailment on December 1. Of eight train cars, seven were off the tracks. Hide Caption 3 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – First responders and others work at the scene of the derailed train December 1. The train came off the tracks just as it was coming around a sharp curve. Hide Caption 4 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – A train car lies on its side after derailing December 1. Hide Caption 5 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – "The windows broke out. ... The gravel came flying up in our faces," said passenger Amanda Swanson, who put her bag in front of her face to block the rubble. "I really didn't know if I would survive," she said. "The train felt like it was on its side and dragging for a long time. ... The whole thing felt like slow motion." Hide Caption 6 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Firefighters and rescue personnel work at the scene of the derailment. Hide Caption 7 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Passengers walk away from the scene. Hide Caption 8 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – A person is evacuated from the scene of the derailment. Hide Caption 9 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Cars from the train are scattered across the tracks. Hide Caption 10 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, right, arrives on the scene December 1. Hide Caption 11 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Firefighters and emergency rescuers swarm the scene, near the Spuyten Duyvil station in the Bronx. One car was just feet away from the Harlem River. Hide Caption 12 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Injured people are tended to by first responders. Hide Caption 13 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – The train operator -- who is among the injured -- told investigators he applied brakes to the train, but it didn't slow down, a law enforcement official on the scene and familiar with the investigation said. Hide Caption 14 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Police divers were in the Harlem River hours after the crash searching for survivors, CNN affiliate WABC reported. Hide Caption 15 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Cuomo inspects the damage along with emergency crews. Hide Caption 16 of 18Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Emergency crews work at the scene of the wreck. Hide Caption 17 of 18