Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Happy Friday. THIS was one heck of a week in politics. So let's look forward to fun stuff this weekend, like Venus and Serena duking it out in Australia. Now, let's Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Border wallWe now know how President Trump plans on paying for that southern border wall -- with a 20% tax on Mexican imports. But that idea didn't go over very well with Democrats (or Republicans). So, the White House backtracked , saying that's just part of a "buffet" of options. The wall's estimated to cost between $15-$20 billion. And yes, a 20% tax would do it. (The US imported $303 billion from Mexico in 2015, and 20% of that is about $60 billion.) But the folks who would really pay for the wall would be ... Americans. About 6 million American jobs depend on trade with Mexico. Restrict trade, jeopardize jobs. Also, a tax hike would mean we'd pay more for everything from cars to computers to avocados to Tequila. Yes, tequila.2. Abortion3. Voter fraud4. Gambia5. Medical breakthroughFor the first time, scientists have been able to grow human cells inside animal cells. An international team of researchers created what's known as a chimera - an organism that contains cells from two different species. In this case, human cells and tissues were grown in pig and cattle embryos. This is a big deal because, in the US alone, 22 people on the organ transplant list die every day as they wait. If science can custom grow them, it can save more lives. But that's a long way from happening. As one of the scientists said: "To try to imitate nature is not that easy."BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.He tweeted it firstYes, Donald Trump is a master at Twitter, but he's not the world's first tweeter-in-chief. That title goes to Venezuela's late President Hugo Chavez.Sign of the timesTwo new "Make America Great Again" billboards are up in Florida, but who sponsored them is a surprise.Super Monday?Hate working the day after the Super Bowl? You have an ally in Kraft Heinz. The food giant wants to the day after the big game to be a national holiday.March right out of hereWant to knit one of those pink hats from the women's march? Don't go to Elizabeth Poe's shop to get yarn. She found the whole march 'vile.'Cash tillWhat would you do with an extra $9.5 million ? The feds say an embezzling cashier bought herself a nice collection of homes, cars, boats and jewelry.QUOTE OF THE DAY"No."Our own Jake Tapper, responding to White House strategist Steve Bannon, who called the media the opposition party that should "keep its mouth shut."NUMBER OF THE DAY$1 billionAND FINALLY ...Snow fall