Charleston, South Carolina (CNN) Deacon Thad Miller closed his barbershop for the evening and sat in a worn leather chair by the front window. He was exhausted. Not just by the day's work, but also the topic of conversation gripping his city.Residents in Charleston are struggling under the weight of two racially charged trials. Jury selection is scheduled to resume Monday in the trial of Dylann Roof, a white supremacist who confessed to killing nine people at Mother Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church. The trial of Michael Slager, a white former North Charleston police officer charged in the shooting death of an unarmed black man, Walter Scott , 50, started about a month ago.The trials are taking place simultaneously in courthouses directly across the street from one another. Charlestonians, especially those in black communities, are watching the trials with a mix of skepticism and cautious optimism."One thing I did not understand is why they had both trials around the same time," Miller said. "I just thought it would be too much on people from Charleston."Charleston barbershop owner Thad Miller cuts the hair of customer Joseph Singleton. Both men are paying attention to the two overlapping racially-charged trials of Michael Slager and Dylann Roof.In this small city, a few have personal connections to the victims. Some, like Miller, are particularly attentive.Leaning forward in his chair, the balls of his feet pressing against the checkered tile floor, he recounted the story of a boy he adored.Miller, 66, thought of Tywanza Sanders as a son. Miller stood as the best man at the boy's parents' wedding. He employed his mother as a hairstylist and watched Tywanza grow up around the shop.Tywanza SandersBy the age of 26, Sanders had become a barber, too. He still called Miller "Mr. Thad."Sanders was one of nine people killed on June 17, 2015, when Roof allegedly opened fire at a Bible study at the Mother Emanuel church in downtown Charleston.A month before the attack, Miller offered Sanders some advice: "Whatever you do, you stick with your momma, because your mom is going to be the one that takes care of you."Sanders' body was discovered alongside his mother, Felecia Sanders, who survived the ordeal by laying in his blood and playing deadMiller, a deacon at a small Baptist church, struggled to understand how such a bad thing could happen to one of God's children."When this thing happened on this night, that was devastating," said Miller.At the same time, Miller is watching the Slager trial. Like others, he is frustrated by what he views as biased policing in the black community."When you look at it, a police officer is somebody who's supposed to protect you from everything, anything," Miller said.Many Charlestonians are confident that Roof will be convicted of the 33 charges he faces, including federal hate crimes and firearms offenses. The question is whether he will be sentenced to death, a punishment sought by the US Justice Department. Meanwhile, some believe Slager, who faces a murder charge in state court, will be acquitted because, as they see it, police officers -- especially white officers -- are a protected class.Residents know the nation is watching their city -- and its reaction to the verdicts.CNN Map'Injustice' from the start?Miller's barbershop is a safe space where black men talk openly about politics and race above a clipper's buzz."They're going to let this guy walk," Joseph Singleton, a 59-year-old carpenter shop supervisor at The Citadel, a military college in Charleston, said about Slager. "I haven't seen them prosecute a policeman here yet. "Singleton, who stopped by for a haircut after work, said 9th Judicial Circuit Solicitor Scarlett A. Wilson has successfully prosecuted many defendants.Walter Scott"But let's see how well she does against -- I call it one of her own people -- a cop," he said.Singleton knows the Scott family. He served in the Marine Corps with one of Scott's uncles in the 1970s.Walter Scott was killed on April 4, 2015, during a routine traffic stop for a faulty brake light. For unknown reasons, Scott attempted to flee on foot. Slager fired eight shots, striking Scott five times. Three of those bullets hit him in the back.Former North Charleston Police Officer Michael Slager (right) in court this week as he stands trial for the murder of Walter Scott.Slager has told investigators Scott did not comply with his demands and tried to grab his stun gun. He has said he looks forward to clearing his name in court.The case drew national attention after a witness video emerged , capturing the incident in vivid detail. Rights activists across the country decried the shooting as yet another instance of police brutality against black people.The North Charleston Police Department fired Slager. A grand jury indicted him on a murder charge on June 8, 2015, days before Roof attacked Emanuel AME Church.Slager faces 30 years to life in prison, if convicted.The jury tasked with deciding his fate includes six white men, five white women and one black man. Jessie Parks, 33, a freelance editor in Charleston, believes the jury's racial makeup is "an injustice.""Charleston is so gentrified that even the damn jury is gentrified," said Parks, who is white. "So, we're going into this trial from a standpoint of injustice from the get-go."#Charleston resident Jessie Parks talks about the murder trial of #MichaelSlager in Charleston, which overlaps w/ the #DylannRoof trial. pic.twitter.com/m4NB1CrLeQ — Darran Simon (@darransimon) November 27, 2016Heather Hann, 43, who is also white, said if she was on the jury, she would certainly convict Slager, based on the video evidence."From my perspective, it seems like the officer was 100 percent guilty," said Hann, a shift supervisor at a coffee shop. "And I do think the nation, if they get it wrong on that trial, should pay attention to that."There is speculation that any verdict short of guilty in Slager's trial may spark protests and even riots similar to those that occurred in Ferguson, Missouri , and Baltimore, Maryland , following the officer-involved deaths of unarmed black men in police encounters. However, the Rev. Joseph A. Darby, first vice president of the Charleston Branch of the NAACP, doesn't believe that's likely."I would imagine an acquittal would lead to a great deal of bitterness, a great deal of anger. I think a great deal of it would be suppressed, as is usually the case in Charleston," he said."This is Charleston. We specialize in raging politeness down here."'God will restore us'The historically black Mother Emanuel Church is a glorious white building on a street named after John C. Calhoun, a slavery advocate and vice president to John Quincy Adams.A sign outside in capital letters thanks strangers for their kindness.Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Thousands of people march on the Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge in Charleston, South Carolina, on Sunday, June 21. People crossed the bridge, which spans the Cooper River, from Mount Pleasant to Charleston, joining hands in a unity chain to mourn the Emanuel AME Church shooting. Police arrested Dylann Storm Roof in the slayings of nine people at a prayer meeting at the church. Hide Caption 1 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Protesters stand on the South Carolina State House steps during a rally to take down the Confederate flag, on Saturday, June 20, in Columbia. Hide Caption 2 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Louise Brown walks down King Street during a "Black Lives Matter" march on June 20 in Charleston, South Carolina. Hide Caption 3 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The men of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity lead a prayer outside Emanuel AME Church, Friday, June 19. Hide Caption 4 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Young people grieve outside Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, on June 19. Hide Caption 5 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Parishioners applaud during a memorial service on Thursday, June 18, at Morris Brown AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina. Hide Caption 6 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Olina Ortega, left, and Austin Gibbs light candles at a sidewalk memorial in front of Emanuel AME Church on June 18. Hide Caption 7 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The Rev. Jeannie Smalls becomes emotional during a prayer vigil held at Morris Brown AME Church on June 18. Hide Caption 8 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A woman places flowers outside the church on June 18. Hide Caption 9 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Mourners gather for a community prayer service at Second Presbyterian Church in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 10 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Walter Jackson, the son of Susie Jackson who died in the church shooting, recalls stories about his mother with his niece Cynthia Taylor at Jackson's home in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 11 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The Rev. Al Sharpton wipes away a tear after praying outside the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 12 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting People sit on the steps of Morris Brown AME Church in Charleston while services are held June 18. Hide Caption 13 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A woman wipes her eyes at a makeshift memorial near the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 14 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The Rev. Keith McDaniel, pastor of Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church, is surrounded by others in prayer on June 18 in Spartanburg, South Carolina. Hide Caption 15 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Tyler Francis, right, hugs Shondrey Dear after praying together June 18 at a makeshift memorial near the Emanuel AME Church. Hide Caption 16 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A group of women prays together at a makeshift memorial on the sidewalk in front of the Emanuel AME Church on June 18. Hide Caption 17 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting President Barack Obama, accompanied by Vice President Joe Biden, pauses while speaking in the Brady Press Briefing Room of the White House in Washington, June 18, on the church shooting in Charleston. Hide Caption 18 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Members of the U.S. Congress gather in front of the Capitol Building in Washington on June 18, during a moment of silence for the nine killed in a church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina. Hide Caption 19 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting South Carolina state Sen. Vincent Sheheen gets emotional on June 18 as he sits next to the draped desk of Sen. Clementa Pinckney at the statehouse in Columbia, South Carolina. Pinckney was one of the nine people killed in the church shooting. Hide Caption 20 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Charleston resident Noah Nicolaisen kneels at a makeshift memorial down the street from the church on June 18. Hide Caption 21 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Kim Hamby prays with her daughter Kayla as they lay flowers at a makeshift memorial in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 22 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A man leans against a light pole as he visits a memorial in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 23 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Chaplain James St. John leads senators in prayer June 18 at the statehouse in Columbia. Hide Caption 24 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Sandra Bridges lays a card at a memorial on June 18. Hide Caption 25 of 25Here, mention of Roof evokes sorrow in the hearts of a wounded congregation struggling to heal, yet hopeful for justice.The trial is also on everyone's minds.At a recent service, the Rev. Brenda Nelson, a minister on staff, knelt in the pulpit and prayed for grace."Touch the heart of the defendant, God, because we know that you're able to change hearts and change minds," she implored. "Be with the judge, be with the defense, be with the prosecutors... because we just believe in justice to be done."JUST WATCHED Inside the room of the Emanuel AME church shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Inside the room of the Emanuel AME church shooting 05:21Nelson also prayed for the families of the "Emanuel Nine," as the victims are called. Among those who died was the church's former pastor and state senator, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, 41.Emanuel's new pastor, the Rev. Eric S.C. Manning, wore a black robe as he preached about restoration.He told his congregation of the disappointment he and the victims' families felt as jury selection originally scheduled for November 7 was postponed for the judge to address a defense motion concerning Roof's competency to stand trial. (The judge on Friday ruled that Roof is competent .)"It was a hard week," Manning said on a recent Sunday. "We had prepared for this time but it did not come to fruition."His voice grew louder: "But God is still in the midst.""Yes, yes," a congregant cried out from a wooden pew.Manning continued: "I am just crazy enough to believe what God has said in his Word, that he still wants to restore each and every one of us."Nearing the end of service, the pastor encouraged the faithful to approach the altar. The choir sang: "I surrender all." Manning instructed the dozens crowded in front to gently squeeze each other's hands as they prayed for God to restore them.'Hoping that justice will prevail'Manning said he and the victims' families huddled in prayer before leaving the courthouse on November 7. "The only way we're going to make it through this is through prayer and reflection," he said.JUST WATCHED Charleston church massacre: A timeline Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Charleston church massacre: A timeline 08:28Following the church shooting, the phrase " Charleston Strong " emerged. In part, it spoke to the city's racial unity and perseverance after the tragedy, the local Post and Courier reported.But Darby, of the NAACP, says Charleston isn't "a paragon of racial progress.""Black schools are still suffering more than white schools. Gentrification is still raging. There's still concerns about how policing is done in the region," he said. "All of that was in place before Roof and Slager, and my suspicion is all of that is taking place after Roof and Slager."Roof said he targeted Mother Emanuel Church, a pillar of the black community since the 1800s, hoping to provoke a race war. In photographs taken before the mass shooting, Roof appears posing proudly with the Confederate flag and at sites honoring the Confederacy.The photos sparked a national debate over the flag's meaning. While some Americans said it stands for Southern heritage, others charged that it symbolizes the enslavement and oppression of black people. Less than a week after the church shooting, Gov. Nikki Haley called for the flag to be removed from the statehouse grounds in Columbia. She said the banner is outdated and belongs in a museum. The flag came down on July 10, 2015.Jim Remillard, 69, a white retiree, said he doesn't pay much attention to "divisive" debates."The black and white police problem is something that the media keeps dwelling on, finding all of those incidences and promoting the divisiveness between black and white all the time," said the former sales professional."I'm kind of a guy that wants to believe in the inherent goodness of people, like those people," he added, referring to the Mother Emanuel Church congregation.Remillard said he's hoping for justice in both the Slager and Roof trials.Leah Suárez, a 35-year-old Charleston native and jazz musician, offered a different perspective on divisiveness. She says it's due to racism and points to this month's US presidential election and the number of hate crimes reported since as "a definitive statement of where we are" as a nation.The Southern Poverty Law Center has reported more than 700 instances of intimidation and harassment against African-Americans, Muslims, immigrants, gays and other minority communities since Donald Trump's Election Day victory. Critics say his triumph was due, at least in part, to a strategy of fomenting racial discord.Roof and Slager committed the shootings long before Trump was elected president. But Suárez, who has Mexican-American roots, believes the cases are emblematic of "things that are affecting our nation right now, and have been affecting our nation" for a very long time."There is a Dylann Roof everywhere," Suárez added.Nevertheless, hope remains.At Ebenezer AME, a few blocks from Mother Emanuel, the Rev. William Swinton Jr. said there is frustration among some, but also relief that the trials have begun."They're hoping that justice will prevail," he said. "And that our future will be one that is void of this kind of behavior, and that somehow the punishment of those who have done wrong may serve as a deterrent for others who may want to do similar acts."