Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Good Wednesday morning. There's actually quite a few pieces of good news today. So keep reading. Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Trump administrationDonald Trump's almost laser-focused on keeping his campaign promises, and today he'll sign an executive order to get going on his biggest: building a wall on the Mexican border. So, is Mexico going to pay for it? Well, Trump's going to ask for an accounting of how much aid the US is sending to Mexico - and some of that money could eventually go to fund the construction. See? Math! Yesterday, Trump took a big step to keep another promise by OK'ing work on the controversial DAPL and Keystone pipelines. Want to keep up with how well he's doing with all of his promises? We put together a handy-dandy Trump Promises Tracker. You're very welcome. BTW, Mr. President, you may want to add this on your to-do list for today: please change your Twitter security settings! A hacker said it would be a pretty good idea.2. Good newsCancer deaths are down quite a bit in the US. About 20% since 1980. That's great news - although a new study says there are some places, primarily in the South, where we've seen stubborn cancer clusters. So we still have a ways to go. In more good news, the lead levels in the water in Flint, Michigan, have tested below the federal limits. That's a first in a couple of years.3. Israel4. Syrian civil warQuestion: Do you really have a peace agreement if neither of the fighting parties sign it? The latest Syrian peace talks are over in Kazakhstan, and it produced an agreement from Russia, Turkey and Iran that basically said they'd work to maintain the ceasefire that went into effect last month. That's nice, but neither the Syrian government or rebel groups signed it. The two wouldn't even meet face to face. So what's next? More talks next month.5. OscarsBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Hide and seekIf you have $20 million in cash you need to hide , it's best to put it someplace where no one would ever think to look for it. Like your mattress.Different strokesHis cross to bearHe plans to build a wooden cross for every person killed in Chicago's violence this year. The sad part is he's already built 40 this month.Open mouth, insert footShe said on Facebook she wouldn't defend President Trump from a bullet, which is a really dumb thing to say if you're a Secret Service agent.Help wantedCards Against Humanity wants a new CEO. Very specific requirements. The only person who could fill the job just left his last one -- at the White HouseAND FINALLY ...Dynamic duet