Story highlights Charles Manson was the leader behind the killings of seven people in the summer of 1969Inmate, 82, serving life sentences(CNN) Charles Manson, the cult leader whose followers committed heinous murders that shocked the nation almost a half century ago, has been hospitalized, the Los Angeles Times and TMZ reported on Tuesday.Lt. Stephen Babb, a spokesman for the state Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, told CNN the department cannot provide information on Manson, 82, due to privacy laws on health information.Manson, who is incarcerated at Corcoran State Prison in central California, was taken to a hospital in Bakersfield, TMZ said.One source told the Times that Manson is in serious condition.Manson is serving nine life terms for ordering a wave of killings in the summer of 1969.Photos: Manson Family murders It has been more than five decades since the murder of Sharon Tate and four others at the Los Angeles home of Tate and her husband, director Roman Polanski. The murders led to the arrest and trial of Charles Manson along with his followers who physically committed the crimes. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders Polanski and Tate at their wedding in January 1968. Tate was eight months pregnant at the time of her death. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders Writer Wojciech Frykowski, coffee heiress Abigail Folger, celebrity hairstylist Jay Sebring and Steven Parent, a friend of the family's gardener, were also killed. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders The victims were stabbed, shot and beaten to death. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders Polanski, who was out of town at the time of the murders, is seen on the porch outside his home. The remnants of the word "pig" can be seen where it was scrawled on the door. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders On the night of August 10, three of Manson's followers killed supermarket executive Leno LaBianca and his wife, Rosemary, at their home (pictured). This time Manson accompanied his followers to select the victims, but he did not take part in the killings. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders Manson and his followers were arrested at this remote location, called Barker Ranch, on suspicion of auto theft. Police did not immediately connect them to the murders. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders A break in the case came when Susan Atkins, already in jail, told a fellow inmate about the Tate murders. "Because we wanted to do a crime that would shock the world, that the world would have to stand up and take notice," she said. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders Manson, along with five followers, was indicted for the murders on December 8, 1969. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders From left, Susan Atkins, Patricia Krenwinkel and Leslie Van Houten walk to court to appear for their roles in the murders. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders Manson is escorted to his arraignment on conspiracy-murder charges. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders Manson appears with an "X" cut into his forehead as the trial starts on June 16, 1970. It was said to symbolize being crossed out of society. He later altered the scar to become a swastika. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders After a seven-month trial, all the defendants were found guilty on January 25, 1971. Atkins, Krenwinkel and Van Houten received the death penalty. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders Manson, head shaved and beardless, is led his sentencing hearing on March 29, 1971. He received the death penalty as well. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders Charles "Tex" Watson was tried separately after fleeing to Texas and fighting extradition to California. He was convicted and also sentenced to death in 1971. All the sentences were commuted to life in prison when California abolished the death penalty in 1972. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders Manson is seen in court during a parole hearing in 1986. He was denied for the sixth time. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Manson Family murders Manson was denied parole for the 12th time on April 12, 2012. He died in 2017 at the age of 83. Hide Caption 17 of 17Read More