(CNN) Any Labor Day weekend plans that included a beach trip may have to be changed for residents living in coastal areas from Virginia to Connecticut as Hermine's winds pick up speed on its way north, forecasters say."Wind and water hazards of a variety of kinds are things we have to contend with throughout Labor Day weekend," National Hurricane Center Director Rick Knabb said Saturday. "Certainly a bad weekend to be on the beach and on boats."Greg and Margee Germaine were celebrating a wedding anniversary Saturday at Atlantic City, New Jersey, having cocktails on the beach and getting blasted by sand.They said they were still enjoying their time at the shore."It may not be swimming weather, but it's been beautiful," Margee Germaine said despite the overcast skies and heavy surf.The National Weather Service said the winds there Saturday afternoon were 25 mph, with gusts of 35 mph.Elizabeth Brister, 23, saw her Labor Day weekend plans blow away in the wind."Right now, it's looking like we're not having much of any beach fun," she told CNN. "I was just pelted in the face with sand and I actually have sand in my contact right now. It kind of hurts."Beachgoers endure high winds and flying sand on Labor Day weekend at Atlantic City.Masbahul Islam, a pedicab driver who has worked in Atlantic City for six years, said the Labor Day crowd is much smaller than in years past. Two concerts were canceled and Islam said that -- as well as the weather forecast -- kept a lot of people away.A handful of people came out to the beach near the famous Steel Pier amusement park, mostly to look at the rough seas. The pier was closed Saturday.Strengthening expectedThe storm was expected to spend the next several days meandering in the Atlantic, gaining some strength. Hermine will once again have hurricane-force winds again Sunday, though it is classified as a post-tropical cyclone.Storm surge could be 3 to 5 feet above the ground during high tide in areas from northeastern Virginia to New Jersey through the weekend."At a minimum, we're going to have some beach erosion, rip currents and dangerous waves all the way from the south facing shores of New England, Cape Cod, Nantucket ... down to the Hampton Roads area," Knabb said.New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie declared a state of emergency Saturday for Ocean, Atlantic and Cape May counties.NHC Potential Storm Surge Flooding Map (Inundation) for #Hermine at 5am EDT Saturday https://t.co/RFueMSM1Xn pic.twitter.com/EFyMo6Qqhl — NHC Atlantic Ops (@NHC_Atlantic) September 3, 2016"The impending weather conditions constitute an imminent hazard," he said in a statement. "This situation may become too large in scope to be handled by the normal county and municipal operating services."The National Weather Service said some minor flooding could begin Saturday during high tide. But that will be just the beginning of the trouble."Widespread moderate to major flooding is now expected with the Sunday evening high tide and the Monday morning high tide, especially from Atlantic City south to coastal Delaware, when the storm is expected to make its closest approach to the area," the weather service said, adding that significant beach erosion is forecast.The good news is rainfall in New Jersey and Delaware is expected to be only between 1 and 3 inches.Winds like a hurricaneHermine could reach wind speeds of 75 mph as it strengthens Sunday, forecasters say."That strengthening could impact places from Nantucket, Cape Cod, New York City, even up and down the New Jersey coast," said CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar."The combination of a storm surge and the tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by rising waters moving inland from the shoreline. There is a danger of life-threatening inundation during the next 24 hours in the Hampton Roads area," the Hurricane Center said Saturday evening."There is also the possibility of life-threatening inundation during the next 48 hours at many coastal locations between Sandy Hook, New Jersey, and Bridgeport, Connecticut," the Saturday evening advisory reads.Labor Day cancellationsBecause of concerns about rough seas, dangerous surf and strong storm surge, no swimming will be allowed on New York beaches Sunday. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said the city is considering closing them Monday and Tuesday, too."We'll see how the storm develops. People can walk on the beach and be on the sand, just not in the water," he said.Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Eli White covers his face from the blowing sand in Nags Head, North Carolina, Saturday, September 3, as the tail of Tropical Storm Hermine passes the Outer Banks. Hermine hit Florida's Gulf Coast on Friday as a hurricane but has since weakened. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Water from Roanoke Sound pounds the Virginia Dare Trail in Manteo, North Carolina, September 3 as Tropical Storm Hermine passes the Outer Banks. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A unidentified man watches the rising water from his home in Hatteras, North Carolina, after Tropical Storm Hermine passed the Outer Banks. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Two structures sit flooded in the creek behind the Hatteras Sands Campground in Hatteras, North Carolina. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Gus Soldatos and his father, Nick, unload lumber to make repairs on their building September 3, after Hurricane Hermine passed through Cedar Key, Florida. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Karen Duer-Potts uses her cellphone to take a photograph of the sunset as the outer band of Hermine creeps over the beach at Cape Charles, Virginia, on September 2. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A street in Cedar Key, Florida, is blocked by debris washed up in the tidal surge of Hurricane Hermine on September 2. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Lynne Garrett speaks to loved ones as she surveys damage outside of her home in St. Marks, Florida, on Friday, September 2. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Tom Reams looks at a tree that fell on his house and his daughter's car in Alligator Point, Florida. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Residents look at an Alligator Point road that collapsed during Hermine's storm surge. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida People check damage to a boat in their neighborhood in Shell Point Beach, Florida. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Shawn Stephenson and Marshall Dimick clear water from a real estate office that was flooded by Hermine in Cedar Key, Florida. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida High winds bend a flagpole in Shell Point Beach early on September 2. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A news reporter works near a sea wall in Cedar Key, Florida, as Hermine neared the coast on Thursday, September 1. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A police car blocks a flooded road that leads to Cedar Key on September 1. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Residents of the Sandpiper Resort survey rising water in Holmes Beach, Florida, on September 1. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Workers in Cedar Key install storm shutters on a storefront as they prepare for Hermine on September 1. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A Holmes Beach resident walks through the Sandpiper Resort on September 1. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Sgt. Andy Pace and Lt. Allen Ham of the Franklin County Sheriff's Department jump-start one of their vehicles as Hermine approaches on September 1. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Traffic moves along U.S. Route 98 as Hermine approaches Eastpoint, Florida, on September 1. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Power crews from South Carolina arrive in Carrabelle, Florida, on September 1. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Sunken and beached boats line the shore in Eastpoint on September 1. Hide Caption 22 of 22Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan declared a state of emergency for 12 counties along the Eastern Shore and Southern Maryland.Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe warned Friday that people faced a strong possibility of "life-threatening" storm surges in coastal areas over the weekend.Two deaths reportedWhen Hermine ripped into St. Marks in Florida's Big Bend region just before 2 a.m. Friday, it became the first hurricane to come ashore in the state since Wilma struck 11 years ago.One person died in Florida as Hermine approached. John Mayes, 56, was sleeping in a tent behind a gas station in Ocala, about 65 miles northwest of Orlando, when a tree fell onto him Thursday night, the Marion County Sheriff's Office said.A medical examiner's office has yet to determine whether the storm was the cause, Florida Gov. Rick Scott said.One person died Saturday when a tractor-trailer overturned while crossing a bridge in eastern North Carolina amid high winds from Hermine, a spokesman for the state's Department of Public Safety, Michael Baker, said. The identity of the truck driver has not been released.