Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Police investigate the back of the Pulse nightclub in Orlando on Sunday, June 12. At least 49 people were killed there by Omar Mateen, who was shot and killed by Orlando police. It was the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. Hide Caption 1 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Bodies arrive at the medical examiner's office on June 12. Hide Caption 2 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Friends and family react after a list of hospitalized victims is released June 12 outside a hotel near the Orlando Regional Medical Center. Hide Caption 3 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Pastor Kelvin Cobaris embraces Orlando City Commissioner Patty Sheehan, right, and Terry DeCarlo, executive director of the LGBT Center of Central Florida, on June 12. Hide Caption 4 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Jeremy Glatstein donates blood in Orlando on June 12. He drove an hour to the donation center to show his support for the shooting victims. Hide Caption 5 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting A bomb disposal unit checks for explosives around the apartment building where Mateen is believed to have lived in Fort Pierce, Florida. Hide Caption 6 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Ray Rivera, a DJ at the nightclub, is consoled by a friend outside of the Orlando Police Department. Hide Caption 7 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Florida Gov. Rick Scott arrives at the scene. Hide Caption 8 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Police gather outside the home in Port St. Lucie, Florida, where Mateen's father lives. Hide Caption 9 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Police officers gather outside of the nightclub, which describes itself as "the hottest gay bar" in the heart of Orlando. Hide Caption 10 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Ron Hopper of the FBI answers questions from members of the media on June 12. Listening are Orlando Police Chief John Mina, left, and Orange County Mayor Teresa Jacobs. Hide Caption 11 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting A police officer stands guard outside the Orlando Regional Medical Center. Hide Caption 12 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting A SWAT team member arrives at the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 13 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Medical personnel wait with stretchers at the Orlando Regional Medical Center. Hide Caption 14 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting People wait for news outside the emergency entrance of the hospital. Hide Caption 15 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Police in Orlando direct family members away from the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 16 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Shooting victims are attended to by emergency responders outside the club. Hide Caption 17 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Emergency personnel gather outside the nightclub. Hide Caption 18 of 20Photos: Orlando nightclub shooting Bystanders wait at the scene. Hide Caption 19 of 20