New York (CNN) The recitations of the nearly 3,000 names of the dead rose toward a cloudy sky over lower Manhattan Sunday morning like an epic poem chronicling one of America's saddest days.Bagpipes played and bells tolled in solemn tributes.Fifteen years ago, the United States changed forever when four airliners crashed into the Twin Towers in New York City, the Pentagon in Washington, D.C., and a field outside Shanksville, Pennsylvania.The age of terror had begun.Formation of firefighters outside FDNY Ladder 1, blocks from ground zero. Some came from other parts of the country. pic.twitter.com/D1axkWIEI0"September 11, 2001, touched every single one of us," New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said Saturday during a memorial service at St. Patrick's Cathedral for the city's fire department."There is no New Yorker who somehow evaded the pain of that day. We all felt it. We all were affected. Everyone felt it. Everyone suffered."At the World Trade Center, 2,753 people were killed when the hijacked jetliners were intentionally flown into the towers.Among those who died were 343 firefighters, 23 police officers and 37 officers with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.At Sunday's memorial service in New York, surviving relatives stepped to the microphones in pairs at the spot where the towers once stood.Some wore ribbons and buttons with photos of their dead loved ones. By late morning, the sun had broken through the clouds on a humid day.'Fifteen years are like 15 seconds'Photos: A US flag is carried through the fields at the Flight 93 National Memorial in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, before a luminaria service on September 10. The service was held to mark the 15th anniversary of American Airlines Flight 93 crashing into a field outside Shanksville with 40 passengers and four hijackers aboard, along with attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, on September 11, 2001. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: Pennsylvania National Guard Private Edward Noon, 22, says a prayer during a luminaria service at the Flight 93 National Memorial on September 10 in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: The sun rises over the Pentagon on Sunday prior to a morning ceremony to commemorate the 15th anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terror attacks. The Pentagon Memorial commemorates the 184 lives lost at the Pentagon and onboard American Airlines Flight 77 that day. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: A firefighter rings a bell as family members, emergency workers and others attend a commemoration ceremony for the victims of the September 11 terrorist attacks at the National September 11 Memorial and Museum on Sunday in New York City. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: An American flag stands among names on the 9/11 memorial before the start of the 15th anniversary memorial service to 9/11 victims in New York. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: A woman hugs a man during a commemoration ceremony for the victims of the September 11 terrorist attacks in New York. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: A group of motorcycle riders look over the north memorial pool Sunday during services marking the 15th anniversary of September 11 at the 9/11 Memorial and Museum in New York. Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: A man honors a lost loved one at a commemoration ceremony for the victims of the September 11 terrorist attacks in New York City. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: A girl cries while reading the names of the victims during a ceremony Sunday marking the 15th anniversary of September 11 attacks at the National 9/11 Memorial in New York. Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: An Army service member salutes during the a ceremony remembering the victims of the September 11 terrorist attacks at the National September 11 Memorial and Museum. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: Family members embrace Sunday during the 15th-anniversary service at the 9/11 Memorial and Museum. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: US military personnel attend a memorial ceremony on the 15th anniversary of the September 11, 2001 attacks at the International Security Assistance Force headquarters in Kabul, Afghanistan. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: Attendees hold photographs of loved ones lost in the September 11 terrorist attacks at a commemoration ceremony Sunday at the National September 11 Memorial and Museum in New York. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: United Airlines flight attendants Clarice Rinker and Janeen Brown embrace by the Wall of Names at the Flight 93 National Memorial near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, on the 15th anniversary of the terror attacks. Their fellow flight attendants and pilots were killed when Flight 93 crashed in a field near Shanksville. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: Military personnel salute during a ceremony Sunday to mark the 15th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks at the Pentagon Memorial in Washington, DC. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: People attending Sunday's ceremony at the Pentagon. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: President Barack Obama lays a wreath during a ceremony Sunday at the Pentagon Memorial to mark the 15th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: Visitors view the sunset from the observatory of One World Trade Center on Sunday, September 11, the 15th anniversary of the 2001 attacks. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: The "Tribute in Light" beams from the skyline of Lower Manhattan where the Twin Towers once stood, as seen from the Brooklyn Heights Promenade on September 11 in New York City. The tribute light commemorates 2,977 people who were killed in New York, at the Pentagon and in Pennsylvania on September 11, 2001. Hide Caption 19 of 19Jim Giaccone remembered his older brother, Joseph Micheal, who worked for Cantor Fitzgerald on the 103rd floor of the north tower. The financial services firm lost 658 employees that day."Fifteen years are like 15 seconds," Giaccone said. "The hurt is still there. The hole is still there. You live on through your family. We miss every day. And everyone tell someone you love them today."A group of motorcycle riders look over the north memorial pool during the 15th Anniversary of September 11 at the 9/11 Memorial and Museum, on September 11, 2016 in New York.Jerry D'Amadeo said he was 10 when he lost his father, Vincent Gerard D'Amadeo, who also worked for Cantor Fitzgerald.This summer, the younger D'Amadeo worked with children affected by the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, where 26 children and adults were killed in 2012."Sometimes the bad things in our lives put us on the path to where we should be going -- to help others as many have helped me," he said.D'Amadeo blew a kiss and looked to the sky. "I love you, Dad," he said.Jerry D'Amadeo, son of Vincent D'Amadeo, killed while working for Cantor Fitzgerald on the 103rd floor, reads names during the 15th Anniversary of September 11 at the 9/11 Memorial and Museum, on September 11, 2016 in New York.Dozens of Tamitha Freeman's relatives came to New York from North Carolina for the ceremonies. Freeman, an Aon employee, died in the north tower. Her relatives wore T-shirts bearing her name and image."I was out of words," her son, Xavier White, who was 16 months old when she died, said of the ceremony. "It's breathtaking."The 2,977 men and women who died in the attacks that day were remembered this weekend with parades and solemn memorials throughout the country. Special services will be held at the spots where the planes crashed.Beautiful memorial this morning. Sorry for the shakiness. These men did a great job in the wind. 💨🇺🇸☀️👍🏻 #neverforget #atlanticcity #njbeaches #september A video posted by NutMeg Creative Cafe (@megkaretny) on Sep 11, 2016 at 4:45am PDTIn lower Manhattan, bells rang to introduce moments of silence six times: at 8:46 a.m., when American Airlines Flight 11 hit the north tower; at 9:03, when United Airlines Flight 175 crashed into the south tower; at 9:37, when American Airlines Flight 77 careened into the Pentagon; at 9:59, when the south tower collapsed; at 10:03, when Flight 93 crashed in Pennsylvania; at 10:28, when the north tower tumbled.Houses of worship throughout New York City tolled their bells and families of victims of the 2001 attacks -- as well as the 1993 bombing at the World Trade Center -- for hours recited the names of those killed.JUST WATCHED Firefighter makes ultimate sacrifice on 9/11 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Firefighter makes ultimate sacrifice on 9/11 02:27Presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump visited Ground Zero. Clinton left the 9/11 commemoration ceremony early after she felt overheated and went to her daughter's apartment, the Clinton campaign said.JUST WATCHED Clinton not feeling well, leaves 9/11 event early Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Clinton not feeling well, leaves 9/11 event early 01:23In Washington, President Barack Obama, Defense Secretary Ash Carter and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Marine Corps Gen. Joe Dunford addressed the families and friends of the 9/11 victims in a ceremony at the Pentagon Memorial.'3,000 beautiful lives'"Fifteen years may seem like a long time but for the families who lost a piece of their heart that day I imagine it can seem like just yesterday," Obama said."Perhaps it's the memory of a last kiss given to a spouse or the last goodbye to a mother or father, a sister or a brother. We wonder how their lives might have unfolded, how their dreams might have taken shape. And I am mindful that no words we offer or deeds we do can ever truly erase the pain of their absence. And yet you, the survivors and families of 9/11, your steadfast love and faithfulness has been an inspiration to me and to our entire country."View from my roof 15 years ago. A neighbor asked me through tears "Please tell me what's happening" #NeverForget pic.twitter.com/dbJI6PiwBp — Jim Sciutto (@jimsciutto) September 11, 2016Obama said the "3,000 beautiful lives" lost that day will never be forgotten.To the survivors and families of victims, Obama said, "You remind us there's nothing that Americans can't overcome."'Our patchwork heritage is not a weakness'President Barack Obama lays a wreath during a ceremony to mark the 15th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorists attacks at the Pentagon Memorial September 11, 2016 in front of the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia.At the Pentagon, 184 people were killed when hijacked American Airlines Flight 77 crashed into the building.One of the hijacked planes crashed outside Shanksville, Pennsylvania, apparently forced down short of the terrorists' intended target after passengers and crew fought back. A service also was held at the Flight 93 National Memorial.After the September 11 commemoration ceremony, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo joined more than 450 motorcycle riders participating in the 9/11 Memorial Motorcycle Ride at a lunch in New York City. The ride pays tribute to the strength, courage and heroism of the first responders who led recovery efforts during and following the terrorist attacks.On Sunday, the NFL and Major League Baseball were to commemorate 9/11 with appearances by military personnel and first responders and the unfurling of giant flags. The ceremonies come amid a heated debate ignited last month when San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick refused to stand for the anthem in protest of racial injustice in America.The NFL was bracing for player demonstrations during the national anthem at Sunday opening-week games after other players vowed to follow Kaepernick's lead.At the Pentagon, Obama praised an America "drawn from every corner of the world, every color, every religion, every background.""Our patchwork heritage is not a weakness," he said. "It is still and always will be one of our greatest strengths. This is the America that was attacked that September morning. This is the America that we must remain true to."