Are you affected by Tropical Storm Hermine? If it's safe for you to do so, WhatsApp us on +44 7435 939 154 to share your photos, experiences and video. Please tag #CNNiReport in your message.(CNN) Much of the Carolinas was being drenched by rain Friday as Tropical Hermine slid up the East Coast after knocking down trees and leaving hundreds of thousands without power in Florida.Forecasters with the National Weather Service said as many as 7 inches of rain could fall, and in isolated areas it could be more than that.A flash flood watch was issued for northeast South Carolina and southeast North Carolina though Saturday morning.The path of the storm, which smashed into Florida's Panhandle as a Category 1 hurricane Friday morning, is projected to move through the North Carolina coast Friday night and head into the Atlantic Ocean on Saturday.The Labor Day weekend worry? Rough seas, dangerous surf and strong storm surge up the coast as far north as Connecticut.The New York City Emergency Management office said no swimming will be allowed on beaches Sunday. Mayor Bill De Blasio said the city is considering closing the beaches to swimmers on Monday and Tuesday, too."We'll see how the storm develops. People can walk on the beach and be on the sand, just not in the water," he said.In New Jersey, Atlantic City officials announced two outdoor concerts were canceled.Late-night arrivalHermine ripped into St. Marks in Florida's Big Bend region as a Category 1 storm just before 2 a.m., becoming the first hurricane to come ashore in the state since Wilma struck 11 years ago."There's nothing open in our county right now," sheriff's Maj. Trey Morrison said Friday in Wakulla County, where Hermine made landfall. He said he heard a report of a driver crashing early Friday into a fallen tree."If it's not an emergency, we don't need people out," he said.The storm's outer bands may have killed at least one person. John Mayes, 56, was sleeping in a tent behind a gas station in Ocala, about 65 miles northwest of Orlando, when a tree fell onto him Thursday night, the Marion County Sheriff's Office said.Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Eli White covers his face from the blowing sand in Nags Head, North Carolina, Saturday, September 3, as the tail of Tropical Storm Hermine passes the Outer Banks. Hermine hit Florida's Gulf Coast on Friday as a hurricane but has since weakened. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Water from Roanoke Sound pounds the Virginia Dare Trail in Manteo, North Carolina, September 3 as Tropical Storm Hermine passes the Outer Banks. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A unidentified man watches the rising water from his home in Hatteras, North Carolina, after Tropical Storm Hermine passed the Outer Banks. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Two structures sit flooded in the creek behind the Hatteras Sands Campground in Hatteras, North Carolina. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Gus Soldatos and his father, Nick, unload lumber to make repairs on their building September 3, after Hurricane Hermine passed through Cedar Key, Florida. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Karen Duer-Potts uses her cellphone to take a photograph of the sunset as the outer band of Hermine creeps over the beach at Cape Charles, Virginia, on September 2. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A street in Cedar Key, Florida, is blocked by debris washed up in the tidal surge of Hurricane Hermine on September 2. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Lynne Garrett speaks to loved ones as she surveys damage outside of her home in St. Marks, Florida, on Friday, September 2. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Tom Reams looks at a tree that fell on his house and his daughter's car in Alligator Point, Florida. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Residents look at an Alligator Point road that collapsed during Hermine's storm surge. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida People check damage to a boat in their neighborhood in Shell Point Beach, Florida. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Shawn Stephenson and Marshall Dimick clear water from a real estate office that was flooded by Hermine in Cedar Key, Florida. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida High winds bend a flagpole in Shell Point Beach early on September 2. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A news reporter works near a sea wall in Cedar Key, Florida, as Hermine neared the coast on Thursday, September 1. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A police car blocks a flooded road that leads to Cedar Key on September 1. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Residents of the Sandpiper Resort survey rising water in Holmes Beach, Florida, on September 1. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Workers in Cedar Key install storm shutters on a storefront as they prepare for Hermine on September 1. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A Holmes Beach resident walks through the Sandpiper Resort on September 1. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Sgt. Andy Pace and Lt. Allen Ham of the Franklin County Sheriff's Department jump-start one of their vehicles as Hermine approaches on September 1. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Traffic moves along U.S. Route 98 as Hermine approaches Eastpoint, Florida, on September 1. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Power crews from South Carolina arrive in Carrabelle, Florida, on September 1. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Sunken and beached boats line the shore in Eastpoint on September 1. Hide Caption 22 of 22A medical examiner's office has yet to determine whether the storm was the cause, Gov. Rick Scott said.About 70,000 homes and businesses were left without power in the Tallahassee area, where sustained winds of up to 80 mph toppled utility poles onto ground saturated by inches of rain.Videos and pictures shared on social media showed damaged streets near the landfall point and downed trees throughout much of the state.One of many trees that fell last night #hurricane #hermine #tropicalstorm #tropical #damage #tallahassee A photo posted by Kim Taylor (@katay_art) on Sep 2, 2016 at 6:31am PDTHermine's outer bands also dropped more rain in the Tampa and St. Petersburg areas, which could ill afford it.Floodwater lapped cars' hubcaps in parts of St. Petersburg, which received more than 9 inches of rain from Tuesday, before Hermine arrived, into Friday morning. More than 22,000 customers were without power in the area Friday morning, utility Duke Energy said. Power to many was restored by the afternoon, the utility said.Flooding also was a problem in Pasco County, north of Tampa. At least 18 people were rescued from rising floodwater there, Scott said.Flooding in Shore Acres. Stay off the roads pic.twitter.com/Xgkqni4yNz — St. Pete Police (@StPetePD) September 2, 2016Downgraded but dangerousTropical storm watches and warnings were declared along the East Coast, from South Carolina to Connecticut."I don't want folks to take the weakening of the winds to mean the hazards have gone away," hurricane center Director Rick Knabb told CNN's "New Day" on Friday. "The most frequent cause of loss of life (from tropical cyclones in recent decades) is from inland flooding due to heavy rainfall."It is also possible Hermine will gain strength once it reaches the warm water in the Atlantic but the characteristics of the storm will change from tropical to post-tropical.The hurricane center defines post-tropical cyclones as "A former tropical cyclone. This generic term describes a cyclone that no longer possesses sufficient tropical characteristics to be considered a tropical cyclone. Post-tropical cyclones can continue carrying heavy rains and high winds."So while it might not be called a hurricane, it could still be a very dangerous system.Surge along the sea wall in #Charleston SC as #Hermine intensifies. Stay with CNN's coverage! pic.twitter.com/WB6Jxf0CEv — Brian Todd (@BrianToddCNN) September 2, 2016Refrigerator 'carried 30 feet'On Alligator Point, part of a Gulf barrier peninsula about 35 miles south of Tallahassee, Ray Maynard spent Friday surveying damage to his home's first-floor storage room.Three of the level's four walls broke away by design, allowing strong winds and storm surge to pass under the inhabited second floor. He wasn't home when the storm hit, but he estimates about 2 to 3 feet of water surged through, bulldozing the walls and scattering what had been inside -- including a fridge and two barbecue grills."The refrigerator was carried 30 feet behind the house," said Maynard, a 58-year-old retiree who, with his wife, splits time between Alligator Point and a residence in Citrus County to the southeast."It's a major cleanup project. The whole (first-floor) slab is covered with mud now," he said. "Everything that was there, you either have to throw it away or wash it off and salvage it."The road in front of his house -- already deteriorated from previous storms -- is now buried under sand and other debris from Hermine."Basically, I went from ... (having a house) behind the road on a beach to being directly on the beach," Maynard said.In Panama City, a popular Labor Day destination, organizers canceled one of the major tourist draws, the Gulf Coast Jam. Officials said the stage for the three-day country music event had to be taken down as the winds picked up.The governor had declared a state of emergency in 51 of the state's 67 counties. Scott told residents not to drive into standing water and to avoid downed power lines, saying crews were working hard to ensure limited disruptions."We have a hurricane. You can rebuild a home. You can rebuild property. You cannot rebuild a life," he said.Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan declared a state of emergency Friday for 12 counties along the Eastern Shore and Southern Maryland.Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe warned Friday that people faced a strong possibility of "life-threatening" storm surges in Hampton Roads and other coastal areas over the weekend. The governor was briefed by hurricane center officials, who showed him a map with storm surge projections."It is a chilling map in that it shows storm surges going all the way up the Chesapeake Bay," McAuliffe said. "We have been told of a very strong likelihood of a life-threatening storm."