(CNN) Hermine's stiff winds and dangerous rip currents threatened eastern Massachusetts Monday, while cruise ship passengers were reeling from a wild ride in rough seas.A tropical storm warning for New York City was canceled early Monday, but warnings remained in effect along the eastern coast of Long Island, as well as for Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts, including Cape Cod and the islands.Hermine was expected to start weakening Monday night as it moved west-northwest at about 7 miles per hour, according to a National Hurricane Center update Monday at 5 pm ET.On Monday afternoon the storm's center was about 200 miles southeast from the eastern tip of Long Island. Hermine will meander northward in the Atlantic on Tuesday and is on track to be off the New England coast by Wednesday.Forecasters expect Hermine's maximum sustained winds to remain near hurricane strength -- at nearly 70 mph, with higher gusts -- extending up to 230 miles from its center.The storm churned up waves that rocked the Royal Caribbean cruise ship Anthem of the Seas as it sailed through the edges of Hermine on Sunday on its way from New Jersey to Bermuda.One passenger, New Jersey resident Derek Beidermann, said in a video his brother-in-law Robert McHugh tweeted out that beginning early morning Sunday, the ship started "swaying a bit" in the rough weather.Beidermann estimated the winds measured "something like 90 knots" (103 mph) and ocean swells "got up to 40 or 50 feet at one point."In the ship's restaurants, dishes were "going all over the place," Beidermann said.Many passengers were feeling sick from the rough weather. "Half the ship is in the room right now over the toilet," Beidermann said.On anthem of the seas sailing through #Hermine pic.twitter.com/Lm2D81OJ1V — Robert McHugh (@Robert_J_McHugh) September 4, 2016Royal Caribbean said in a statement Sunday the ship was continuing to sail "safely to Bermuda.""Earlier today, our captain informed guests that we had experienced higher winds and gusts for a 2-3 hour period," the statement said.Anthem of the Seas is no stranger to rough waters. Last February at least four people were hurt when the ship hit hurricane-force winds off North Carolina, prompting the crew to turn the vessel around and return to port in New Jersey.Warnings from Fire Island to NantucketStretches of the Northeast coastline specifically under the tropical storm warning Monday included Long Island from Fire Island Inlet to Port Jefferson Harbor and from New Haven, Connecticut, to Sagamore Beach, Block Island and Massachusetts, including the islands of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket.Officials warned about dangerous rip currents and high surf, which are possible through mid-week. There won't be much rainfall Monday and Tuesday -- totals will range from half an inch to 1.5 inches.Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Eli White covers his face from the blowing sand in Nags Head, North Carolina, Saturday, September 3, as the tail of Tropical Storm Hermine passes the Outer Banks. Hermine hit Florida's Gulf Coast on Friday as a hurricane but has since weakened. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Water from Roanoke Sound pounds the Virginia Dare Trail in Manteo, North Carolina, September 3 as Tropical Storm Hermine passes the Outer Banks. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A unidentified man watches the rising water from his home in Hatteras, North Carolina, after Tropical Storm Hermine passed the Outer Banks. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Two structures sit flooded in the creek behind the Hatteras Sands Campground in Hatteras, North Carolina. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Gus Soldatos and his father, Nick, unload lumber to make repairs on their building September 3, after Hurricane Hermine passed through Cedar Key, Florida. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Karen Duer-Potts uses her cellphone to take a photograph of the sunset as the outer band of Hermine creeps over the beach at Cape Charles, Virginia, on September 2. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A street in Cedar Key, Florida, is blocked by debris washed up in the tidal surge of Hurricane Hermine on September 2. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Lynne Garrett speaks to loved ones as she surveys damage outside of her home in St. Marks, Florida, on Friday, September 2. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Tom Reams looks at a tree that fell on his house and his daughter's car in Alligator Point, Florida. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Residents look at an Alligator Point road that collapsed during Hermine's storm surge. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida People check damage to a boat in their neighborhood in Shell Point Beach, Florida. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Shawn Stephenson and Marshall Dimick clear water from a real estate office that was flooded by Hermine in Cedar Key, Florida. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida High winds bend a flagpole in Shell Point Beach early on September 2. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A news reporter works near a sea wall in Cedar Key, Florida, as Hermine neared the coast on Thursday, September 1. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A police car blocks a flooded road that leads to Cedar Key on September 1. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Residents of the Sandpiper Resort survey rising water in Holmes Beach, Florida, on September 1. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Workers in Cedar Key install storm shutters on a storefront as they prepare for Hermine on September 1. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A Holmes Beach resident walks through the Sandpiper Resort on September 1. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Sgt. Andy Pace and Lt. Allen Ham of the Franklin County Sheriff's Department jump-start one of their vehicles as Hermine approaches on September 1. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Traffic moves along U.S. Route 98 as Hermine approaches Eastpoint, Florida, on September 1. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Power crews from South Carolina arrive in Carrabelle, Florida, on September 1. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Sunken and beached boats line the shore in Eastpoint on September 1. Hide Caption 22 of 22More than 34,000 without power in Florida MondayMeanwhile, in Florida where Hermine first made landfall early Friday as a Category 1 hurricane, at least 34,361 customers remained without power as of 8 a.m. Monday, according to the Florida Division of Emergency Management.JUST WATCHED Hurricane Hermine batters Florida's Gulf Coast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hurricane Hermine batters Florida's Gulf Coast 03:02Leon County, which is located in the northwestern part of the state at the top of the Big Bend, reported the most outages -- 19% of its customers had no power. Adjacent Wakulla County reported 18% of customers without power.Hermine has been linked to at least two deaths -- one man sleeping in a tent in Ocala died after a tree fell on him, while another, a truck driver, died when his vehicle overturned due to high winds in eastern North Carolina.Ruined holiday weekendThe storm doused Labor Day weekend plans for countless residents along the Eastern Seaboard. Because of concerns about rough seas, dangerous surf and strong storm surge, no swimming was allowed on New York beaches Sunday and Monday.New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie declared a state of emergency Saturday for Ocean, Atlantic and Cape May counties.The storm forced the famous Steel Pier amusement park in Atlantic City to close Saturday.Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan declared a state of emergency for 12 counties along the Eastern Shore and Southern Maryland.Tropical Newton brewing in the PacificMexico's National Water Commission issued an alert Monday after the strengthening of Hurricane Newton, which is projected to bring torrential rains and swelling seas to the areas of Jalisco, Colima, Michoacan, Sinaloa, Nayarit and Durango, Baja California Sur, Zacatecas and Guerrero.A Hurricane watch area has been established from Cabo San Lazaro to San Evaristo, including Cabo San Lucas and Baja California Sur.