Charlotte, North Carolina (CNN) After nearly a week of protests in Charlotte, the Queen City has returned to near normal after officials had enacted both a state of emergency and a curfew following protests over a fatal police shooting.The protests emerged in the wake of the death of Charlotte resident Keith Lamont Scott. On September 20, Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Officers attempted to serve a warrant to a man at The Village of College Downs near UNC Charlotte. As they passed through the complex's parking lot, they encountered the 43-year-old black man who was exiting his car.What happened next with Scott, who wasn't the person they sought, is still being debated : Police said he made a threatening move with a gun. The family said he was reading a book. The encounter escalated -- and ended with Scott lying face down in the parking lot, dead.The latest in a string of recent fatal police shootings, Scott's death spurred activists into Charlotte's streets after word spread of the incident. The protests, which led to violence and at least one protester death, forced officials to declare a state of emergency and impose a curfew.Over the weekend, though, the protests grew quieter, dying down in part due to heightened police presence as well as the decision to release body camera and dashboard camera video tapes.Heading into this week, Scott's family now hopes to find out more answers about why their loved one died at the hands of a Charlotte police officer.The video's releaseAn image taken from a police body camera video released by the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department showing moments after officers shot and killed Keith Scott.On Saturday, Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Chief Kerr Putney released video footage of the Scott shooting. Protesters had called for the video for several days and, after seeing Scott's wife publish footage of her husband's body on the ground, demanded the department immediately make the tapes of the shooting public.However, what the video showed did not provide clear answers about why Scott died.Neither of the videos made public seemed to capture Scott pointing a pistol at officers. During the video, Scott has his arm by the right side of his body, but no gun looks visible. Authorities did, however, later release photos of a pistol and holster they say were retrieved at the scene."You can't clearly identify what, if anything, is in his hand," Justin Bamberg, an attorney for the Scott family, said at news conference Saturday evening.Putney also conceded, prior to the video's release, there was "no definitive visual evidence" that Scott held a weapon in his hand.A calmer CharlottePhotos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters stand outside Bank of America Stadium in Charlotte, North Carolina, during the NFL football game between the Carolina Panthers and the Minnesota Vikings on Sunday, September 25. Violent protests erupted on Tuesday after the death of Keith Lamont Scott, who was shot by a police officer in an apartment complex parking lot. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Chief Kerr Putney said Scott exited his car with a gun and that he was shot after he wouldn't drop it. Scott's family said he was unarmed and sitting in his car reading a book. Hide Caption 1 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Charlotte-Mecklenburg police officers arrive outside of Bank of America Stadium prior to the Panthers game on September 25. Hide Caption 2 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Demonstrators take a knee outside Bank of America Stadium as the national anthem is played on September 25. Hide Caption 3 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Members of the National Guard stand watch in front of a Charlotte hotel on Friday, September 23. Hide Caption 4 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters march in Charlotte on September 23. Hide Caption 5 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A protester, right, expresses his opinion to a police officer and another pedestrian near Trade and Tryon Streets in Charlotte on Thursday, September 22. Hide Caption 6 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Residents and activists march in the streets of Charlotte on September 22. There was a heavy police presence, and the National Guard was also on hand. Hide Caption 7 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters confront police officers near Trade and Tryon streets on September 22. Hide Caption 8 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting National Guardsmen stand at their post in downtown Charlotte on September 22. Hide Caption 9 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Members of the North Carolina National Guard speak with residents and visitors on September 22. Hide Caption 10 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Police officers and protesters carry a man who was shot during the second night of protests on Wednesday, September 21. The shooting victim, 26-year-old Justin Carr, later died. Police have charged another civilian in connection with Carr's death. Hide Caption 11 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A protester shouts to a crowd in downtown Charlotte on the evening of September 21. Hide Caption 12 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A police officer in riot gear stands near a damaged storefront on September 21. Hide Caption 13 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters throw chairs at a restaurant on September 21. Hide Caption 14 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A protester stares down law enforcement officers during protests on September 21. Hide Caption 15 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A police officer tries to grab a protester from the crowd. Hide Caption 16 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Charlotte public defender Toussaint Romain pushes a protester back from a line of police. "We can't lose any more lives, man. I'm a public defender. I can't represent any more people," he told CNN's Boris Sanchez. Hide Caption 17 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters march in the streets of Charlotte on September 21. Hide Caption 18 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters rushed police in riot gear at a downtown Charlotte hotel. Officers fired tear gas to disperse the crowd. Hide Caption 19 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A protester stands on a car roof. Hide Caption 20 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Demonstrators hold Black Lives Matter signs. Hide Caption 21 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Demonstrators fill the streets in downtown Charlotte. Hide Caption 22 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting On the first night of demonstrations, police officers face off with protesters on Interstate 85. Hide Caption 23 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting After blocking traffic on I-85, some of the protesters took cargo from tractor-trailers and set it on fire. Hide Caption 24 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters react to a police helicopter. Hide Caption 25 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A police officer stands guard near a fire on I-85. Hide Caption 26 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters run from a gas canister after blocking traffic on I-85. Hide Caption 27 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters march down W.T. Harris Boulevard. Hide Caption 28 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Police officers face off with protesters on the first night of demonstrations. Hide Caption 29 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A police officer faces protesters. Hide Caption 30 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Charlotte Mayor Jennifer Roberts has called for a full investigation into the shooting. She said the officer who shot Scott, Brentley Vinson, has been placed on paid administrative leave. Vinson is also black. Hide Caption 31 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Police stand guard on the first night of protests. Hide Caption 32 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A police officer attempts to extinguish a fire on I-85. Hide Caption 33 of 33On the day Putney released the tapes, hundreds of activists took to the streets in multiple protests that largely proved peaceful.Outside Bank of America Stadium Sunday, protesters struck a peaceful tone as they demonstrated while the Carolina Panthers played the Minnesota Vikings. Before the football game, Charlotte officials had declared it an "extraordinary event," a designation that allows authorities to boost their security as well as ban some items.Authorities, who dispersed protesters throughout the day, arrested one man who had carried a bag that contained an unloaded pistol and a full magazine outside the stadium, according to CNN affiliate WSOC . It's unclear if he was one of the protesters.The latest round of protests have struck a far different tone than those immediately after Scott's death.On Tuesday night, at least a dozen officers sustained injuries amid demonstrations that blocked part of Interstate 85 and riots. In subsequent days, police arrested scores of protesters. One protester, Justin Carr, died after he was fatally shot during a rally.City officials decided to enact a curfew across Charlotte, while Gov. Pat McCrory declared of a state of emergency.Both of those have since been lifted.What now?The videos of Scott haven't managed to answer the most pressing question regarding his death: Was the shooting justified?So far, Putney has said the full evidence -- not just the videos released -- tied to the incident would ultimately vindicate Brentley Vinson , the officer who fired multiple shots at Scott.Bamberg said the family would continue to gather the facts in an attempt to figure out what happened."We encourage everyone to reserve judgment until all the facts are known," Charles Monnett, another attorney for the Scott family, said this weekend. "(The release of the video) is simply one step in our quest to find the truth for this family."