(CNN) Videos released by the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department of the fatal encounter between officers and Keith Lamont Scott could be the last such footage that North Carolina authorities share with the public.Scott died on September 20. In the five days since the shooting, protesters have demanded that Charlotte Police release video footage of the incident.Initially, Police Chief Kerr Putney chose not to immediately release the camera footage, only doing so amid pressure from the public. Release of another video from one of Scott's family members also added to the calls for police to release their footage.Putney's decision may be one of the final times a police chief will relent to public pressure.That's because a new law that goes into effect on October 1, exactly one week after the Scott footage was released, is set to block the public from obtaining similar kinds of recordings from body cameras or dashboard cameras.The whole story?JUST WATCHED New North Carolina law blocks release of police cam footage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New North Carolina law blocks release of police cam footage 01:31Gov. Pat McCrory, who signed the legislation two months ago, has said the law would balance "public trust" with the rights and safety of police officers.It's about "respecting the public, respecting the family, and also respecting the constitutional rights of the officer," he said."One viewpoint of a video doesn't often always tell the whole story," McCrory said. "The angles can make a difference, and [you're] not hearing [the sound] often in the video, so that [adds to] the complexity. The video is one piece of evidence. We have to be careful."Public record, no moreAn image taken from dashcam video released by the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department showing the moment before officers shot and killed Keith Scott.Previously, North Carolina had no uniform law regarding the release of dashboard or body camera footage.As more officers have become outfitted with body cameras, particularly following the heightened scrutiny surrounding officer-involved shootings, law enforcement agencies in the state made their own rules. Most agencies considered such footage personnel footage, allowing for its release under limited circumstances through public record requests.With the new law, both types of videos would no longer be considered personnel records or part of the public record. As a result, police departments would have more discretion as to whether they release the videos. The law has the full support of the North Carolina Sheriffs' Association.Any denied requests could be appealed before a judge, according to the law.'No tapes; no peace'Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters stand outside Bank of America Stadium in Charlotte, North Carolina, during the NFL football game between the Carolina Panthers and the Minnesota Vikings on Sunday, September 25. Violent protests erupted on Tuesday after the death of Keith Lamont Scott, who was shot by a police officer in an apartment complex parking lot. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Chief Kerr Putney said Scott exited his car with a gun and that he was shot after he wouldn't drop it. Scott's family said he was unarmed and sitting in his car reading a book. Hide Caption 1 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Charlotte-Mecklenburg police officers arrive outside of Bank of America Stadium prior to the Panthers game on September 25. Hide Caption 2 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Demonstrators take a knee outside Bank of America Stadium as the national anthem is played on September 25. Hide Caption 3 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Members of the National Guard stand watch in front of a Charlotte hotel on Friday, September 23. Hide Caption 4 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters march in Charlotte on September 23. Hide Caption 5 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A protester, right, expresses his opinion to a police officer and another pedestrian near Trade and Tryon Streets in Charlotte on Thursday, September 22. Hide Caption 6 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Residents and activists march in the streets of Charlotte on September 22. There was a heavy police presence, and the National Guard was also on hand. Hide Caption 7 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters confront police officers near Trade and Tryon streets on September 22. Hide Caption 8 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting National Guardsmen stand at their post in downtown Charlotte on September 22. Hide Caption 9 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Members of the North Carolina National Guard speak with residents and visitors on September 22. Hide Caption 10 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Police officers and protesters carry a man who was shot during the second night of protests on Wednesday, September 21. The shooting victim, 26-year-old Justin Carr, later died. Police have charged another civilian in connection with Carr's death. Hide Caption 11 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A protester shouts to a crowd in downtown Charlotte on the evening of September 21. Hide Caption 12 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A police officer in riot gear stands near a damaged storefront on September 21. Hide Caption 13 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters throw chairs at a restaurant on September 21. Hide Caption 14 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A protester stares down law enforcement officers during protests on September 21. Hide Caption 15 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A police officer tries to grab a protester from the crowd. Hide Caption 16 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Charlotte public defender Toussaint Romain pushes a protester back from a line of police. "We can't lose any more lives, man. I'm a public defender. I can't represent any more people," he told CNN's Boris Sanchez. Hide Caption 17 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters march in the streets of Charlotte on September 21. Hide Caption 18 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters rushed police in riot gear at a downtown Charlotte hotel. Officers fired tear gas to disperse the crowd. Hide Caption 19 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A protester stands on a car roof. Hide Caption 20 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Demonstrators hold Black Lives Matter signs. Hide Caption 21 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Demonstrators fill the streets in downtown Charlotte. Hide Caption 22 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting On the first night of demonstrations, police officers face off with protesters on Interstate 85. Hide Caption 23 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting After blocking traffic on I-85, some of the protesters took cargo from tractor-trailers and set it on fire. Hide Caption 24 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters react to a police helicopter. Hide Caption 25 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A police officer stands guard near a fire on I-85. Hide Caption 26 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters run from a gas canister after blocking traffic on I-85. Hide Caption 27 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Protesters march down W.T. Harris Boulevard. Hide Caption 28 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Police officers face off with protesters on the first night of demonstrations. Hide Caption 29 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A police officer faces protesters. Hide Caption 30 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Charlotte Mayor Jennifer Roberts has called for a full investigation into the shooting. She said the officer who shot Scott, Brentley Vinson, has been placed on paid administrative leave. Vinson is also black. Hide Caption 31 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting Police stand guard on the first night of protests. Hide Caption 32 of 33 Photos: Protests over Charlotte police shooting A police officer attempts to extinguish a fire on I-85. Hide Caption 33 of 33The shooting that left Scott dead in a Charlotte apartment complex parking lot sparked days of protest and even a riot, forcing McCrory to declare a state of emergency. The protesters, who made numerous demands, urged the police to release the footage immediately.Later that evening, authorities complied with those demands. They released the videos, along with photographs of a handgun, holster and marijuana cigarette that officers said they recovered from the scene.The release came one day after Rakeyia Scott, the victim's widow, released her own cellphone video of the deadly incident. The Scott family contends that Keith Lamont Scott was not armed at the time of the shooting.Neither her video nor those of the police department definitively show that Keith Lamont Scott was armed. However, the release goes a long way toward meeting public demands for transparency — at least for now.More rules, less scrutiny?To Karen Anderson, executive director of the ACLU's North Carolina chapter, such footage remains vital to informing the public about officer-involved shootings.If the Scott shooting happened after October 1, she said, Charlotte would've had the ability to keep the videos out of the sight unless otherwise ordered by a court.Calling the McCrory-backed law "disgraceful," Anderson said in a statement last week that "video footage of police shootings can provide crucial evidence of what took place -- especially when there are conflicting accounts from police and community members." Not unlike the Scott shooting.Under the new law, though, only individuals filmed in a body-camera or dashcam video— or in some cases their family members -- would be allowed to view such footage. They would not, however, be allowed to obtain a copy of that video.The changes to the law, she fears, could undermine transparency at a delicate time for police relations with minority residents in Charlotte following Scott's death."What we already know is that far too many people of color are victims of wrongful targeting and excessive use of force by law enforcement officers across the country," Anderson said in a statement. "We were once again harshly reminded that North Carolina is not immune to that reality."