(CNN) Good morning. Doug is in Charlotte covering the protests, so I'm filling in. Here are the 5 things you need to know today to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door:1. Charlotte protestsViolent protests have hit the Charlotte area hard, but last night was peaceful ( check the moving photo above ). Some protesters hugged National Guard members, shook hands and took pictures. When a midnight curfew began, they dispersed on their own . Also, Keith Lamont Scott's family got a chance to look at the video from the shooting, and they say it's impossible to tell if he had a gun . That's a theme in this case: Police claim one thing, and Scott's family and advocates claim another. Where does the truth lie?2. Tulsa shootingBetty Shelby has been charged with felony manslaughter in the first degree. The officer fatally shot Terence Crutcher, an unarmed black man whose car had broken down in the middle of the road. The criminal complaint called her actions unlawful and unnecessary. This is a big deal, and if she is convicted, she could get four years to life. She was released on bond early this morning.3. Yahoo hackWhoa. Yahoo says mysterious hackers nabbed data from 500 MILLION accounts in 2014. That would make it one of the largest cybersecurity breaches ever. The compromised info included stuff like passwords, phone numbers and email addresses. Apparently, no financial data was involved, but you should still be alert: Even basic info could lead straight to your social media and other online accounts. Here's what to do if you were hacked4. Anthony WeinerThe sext-happy ex-Congressman is under investigation for allegedly sending explicit messages to an underage girl . Weiner hasn't confirmed or denied the claims, and said he thinks he was the victim of a "hoax." For what it's worth, it's only been a month since his wife, Huma Abedin, announced they were separating after he allegedly sent lewd messages to another woman while in bed with their son. Sexting: Not even once. And definitely not multiple times.5. North KoreaJust in case you were wondering, South Korea has a plan to assassinate Kim Jong Un if it feels NK's nuclear weapons become a threat. Kim has been ramping up his nuclear rhetoric and he's definitely put world powers on edge. But it's still surprising that SK just came out and announced its "worst case scenario" plan.Breakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in."If you're black and you haven't been successful in the last 50 years, it's your own fault. You've had every opportunity. I don't think there was any racism until Obama got elected." -- -- A Trump staffer in Ohio resigned after catching heat for this spicy quote.It's Friday. It's movies.Spider causes car crashTotally understandable . Don't worry, the woman involved is okay (no word on the spider).Earth's oldest civilizations are aboriginal Australians.People are losing it over the Harry Potter patronus charm quizJust be prepared to get, like, a salmon or a mole. The quiz doesn't lieNumber of the Day$200 millionAnd finally ...Yes, there are email jokes.If you're into droll interviews and Zach Galifianakis, you will enjoy his bit with Hillary Clinton no matter which side of the ballot you prefer.