Story highlights Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter have built homes for more than 30 yearsThe Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter Work Project started in 1984Habitat for Humanity builds homes in 70 countries(CNN) Former President Jimmy Carter is almost 92 years old, but he still swings a mighty hammer.On a hot August day in Memphis, Carter, his wife Rosalynn and a group of volunteers were hard at work, building homes with Habitat for HumanityA year earlier, the elder statesman announced that he had brain cancer. There was surgery, radiation and drugs. Now he's in remission and back to work.For 32 years, the Jimmy & Rosalynn Carter Work Project has helped build more than 4,000 homes."This has been the main thing we do outside of Carter Center and outside of my political jobs," the former president explained during a break in construction. "It's a practical way to put my religious beliefs into practice over the years. We talk about poor people in need and this is the best way I know to close that gap between rich people and the people who've never had a decent place to live."Photos: The Carters' Habitat history Jimmy Carter speaks outside the first Jimmy & Rosalynn Carter Work Project in New York City in 1984. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: The Carters' Habitat history Jimmy & Rosalynn Carter working together on a home in Charlotte, North Carolina, in 1987. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: The Carters' Habitat history Jimmy & Rosalynn Carter set up their tent in Tijuana, Mexico, for their work project in 1990. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: The Carters' Habitat history President Jimmy Carter presents Neal and Michele Hughley with the keys to their new Habitat house completed during the Jimmy Carter Work Project in 2000. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: The Carters' Habitat history Jimmy Carter helps install siding on a new home during the 2014 Jimmy & Rosalynn Carter Work Project in Fort Worth, Texas. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: The Carters' Habitat history Jimmy & Rosalynn Carter at their work project in Memphis Tennessee in 2016. Hide Caption 6 of 6Read More