(CNN) Millions of residents, from Virginia to New England, are expected to remain under tropical storm watches and warnings for the rest of Labor Day weekend as post-cyclone Hermine meanders up the Eastern Seaboard.Hermine's march up the East Coast shifted toward the east Sunday, lessening the storm's impact on coastal New Jersey, Delaware and New York City. But the threat of high winds and storm surges had already ruined holiday plans for many, as beaches closed across the Northeast and were expected to remain closed on Monday.By Sunday night, the National Hurricane Center said the storm was moving about 5 mph out to sea, about 370 miles east of Ocean City, Maryland, and 325 miles southeast of the eastern tip of Long Island.Around midnight, the National Weather Service's New York center tweeted that the tropical storm warning for New York City had been canceled but remains active for Connecticut's coastline and Suffolk, Long Island.The tropical storm warning has been cancelled for New York City, but does remain in effect for Eastern coastal Connecticut and Suffolk, LI.Heading into Monday, Hermine is expected to turn northward, increasing the threat of bad weather for parts of Delaware, eastern Long Island, Rhode Island and Massachusetts, gradually weakening by Monday night and beginning to exit the Northeast US coast sometime Wednesday. A tropical storm warning was in effect from north of Fenwick Island, Delaware, to Sagamore Beach, Massachusetts, including Block Island, Martha's Vineyard, Nantucket and Delaware Bay south of Slaughter Beach.Surging tides from the storm could be as high as 3 feet from Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, to Montauk Point, New York, including the North Shore of Long Island. The National Weather Service warned of possible life-threatening flooding in the next 48 hours on the North Shore of Long Island east of Flushing and on the south shore of Long Island east of Rockaway Inlet.JUST WATCHED Hermine heads up the coast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hermine heads up the coast 01:06Rain won't be much of a problem, because the heaviest rainfall will remain offshore. Only 1 to 2 inches is expected in southeastern Massachusetts, including Cape Cod and the offshore islands.Out to sea, Hermine is expected to regain hurricane-force winds -- about 75 mph -- sometime during the remainder of the holiday weekend, although the National Weather Service will not officially call it a hurricane. Instead, forecasters have labeled Hermine a post-tropical cyclone.Tropical-storm-force winds extend from the center as far as 230 miles, with maximum sustained winds near 70 mph and even higher gusts.Storm brings out determined celebratorsGreg and Margee Germaine weren't letting Hermine ruin their wedding anniversary celebration Saturday in Atlantic City, New Jersey. They managed to enjoy cocktails on the beach -- while getting blasted by sand."It may not be swimming weather, but it's been beautiful," Margee Germaine said, despite overcast skies and heavy surf.Winds there Saturday afternoon were 25 mph, with gusts of 35 mph, the weather service said.Elizabeth Brister, 23, saw her Labor Day weekend plans in "A.C." blow away in the wind."Right now, it's looking like we're not having much of any beach fun," she said. "I was just pelted in the face with sand and I actually have sand in my contact right now. It kind of hurts."Beachgoers endure high winds and flying sand on Labor Day weekend at Atlantic City.Masbahul Islam, a pedicab driver who has worked in Atlantic City for six years, said the Labor Day crowd is much smaller than in years past. The cancellation of two concerts due to the weather kept a lot of people away, Islam said.A handful of people came out to the beach near the famous Steel Pier amusement park, mostly to look at the rough seas. The pier was closed Saturday.New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie declared a state of emergency Saturday for Ocean, Atlantic and Cape May counties."The impending weather conditions constitute an imminent hazard," he said in a statement. "This situation may become too large in scope to be handled by the normal county and municipal operating services."Labor Day cancellationsBecause of concerns about rough seas, dangerous surf and strong storm surge, no swimming was allowed on New York beaches Sunday. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said they will remain off-limits to swimmers and surfers on Monday, too."My No. 1 concern is the dangerous rip currents we are going to experience," the mayor said in a statement. "We are reminding people to refrain from going into the water. Even though the forecast has improved, the waters will still be extremely dangerous."Long Island beaches remain closed, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said.Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Eli White covers his face from the blowing sand in Nags Head, North Carolina, Saturday, September 3, as the tail of Tropical Storm Hermine passes the Outer Banks. Hermine hit Florida's Gulf Coast on Friday as a hurricane but has since weakened. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Water from Roanoke Sound pounds the Virginia Dare Trail in Manteo, North Carolina, September 3 as Tropical Storm Hermine passes the Outer Banks. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A unidentified man watches the rising water from his home in Hatteras, North Carolina, after Tropical Storm Hermine passed the Outer Banks. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Two structures sit flooded in the creek behind the Hatteras Sands Campground in Hatteras, North Carolina. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Gus Soldatos and his father, Nick, unload lumber to make repairs on their building September 3, after Hurricane Hermine passed through Cedar Key, Florida. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Karen Duer-Potts uses her cellphone to take a photograph of the sunset as the outer band of Hermine creeps over the beach at Cape Charles, Virginia, on September 2. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A street in Cedar Key, Florida, is blocked by debris washed up in the tidal surge of Hurricane Hermine on September 2. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Lynne Garrett speaks to loved ones as she surveys damage outside of her home in St. Marks, Florida, on Friday, September 2. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Tom Reams looks at a tree that fell on his house and his daughter's car in Alligator Point, Florida. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Residents look at an Alligator Point road that collapsed during Hermine's storm surge. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida People check damage to a boat in their neighborhood in Shell Point Beach, Florida. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Shawn Stephenson and Marshall Dimick clear water from a real estate office that was flooded by Hermine in Cedar Key, Florida. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida High winds bend a flagpole in Shell Point Beach early on September 2. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A news reporter works near a sea wall in Cedar Key, Florida, as Hermine neared the coast on Thursday, September 1. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A police car blocks a flooded road that leads to Cedar Key on September 1. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Residents of the Sandpiper Resort survey rising water in Holmes Beach, Florida, on September 1. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Workers in Cedar Key install storm shutters on a storefront as they prepare for Hermine on September 1. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida A Holmes Beach resident walks through the Sandpiper Resort on September 1. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Sgt. Andy Pace and Lt. Allen Ham of the Franklin County Sheriff's Department jump-start one of their vehicles as Hermine approaches on September 1. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Traffic moves along U.S. Route 98 as Hermine approaches Eastpoint, Florida, on September 1. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Power crews from South Carolina arrive in Carrabelle, Florida, on September 1. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Hermine storms into Florida Sunken and beached boats line the shore in Eastpoint on September 1. Hide Caption 22 of 22Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan declared a state of emergency for 12 counties along the Eastern Shore and Southern Maryland.Two deaths reportedWhen Hermine ripped into St. Marks in Florida's Big Bend region just before 2 a.m. Friday, it became the first hurricane to come ashore in the state since Wilma struck 11 years ago.One person died in Florida as Hermine approached. John Mayes, 56, was sleeping in a tent behind a gas station in Ocala, about 65 miles northwest of Orlando, when a tree fell onto him Thursday night, the Marion County Sheriff's Office said.A medical examiner's office has yet to determine whether the storm was the cause, Florida Gov. Rick Scott said.One person died Saturday when a tractor-trailer overturned while crossing a bridge in eastern North Carolina amid high winds from Hermine, a spokesman for the state's Department of Public Safety, Michael Baker, said. The identity of the truck driver has not been released.