Story highlights Fire destroys the Sable Ranch, where many movies and TV shows were shotFire swells to 22,000 acres, forcing hundreds to flee; man's body found in burned-out car in driveway(CNN) A man's body was found in a burned-out car as a wildfire tore a path of destruction through forests and neighborhoods near Santa Clarita, California, 35 miles northwest of Los Angeles.By Sunday morning the fire had swelled to 22,000 acres and burned 18 homes, Los Angeles County Fire Chief John Tripp said at a news conference. He said the fire was 18% contained.Also lost to the fire was the Sable Ranch, where many movies and television shows were shot. Productions that used the ranch included "The A Team," "Invisible Man" starring Chevy Chase, "Terror From Above" and "Robin Hood: Men in Tights," according to the ranch website.Hundreds of residents have been ordered to evacuate their homes. Some of the evacuation orders were to be lifted Sunday afternoon but because of an "unexpected wind event," that plan was rescinded later Sunday, the fire department said on Twitter.Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A hillside erupts in flame in Placerita Canyon in Santa Clarita, California on Monday, July 25. Fire officials said the so-called Sand Fire was growing at the rate of 10,000 acres per day and could potentially spread in any of three directions depending on changing winds. The wildfire has already scorched more than 33,000 acres and destroyed at least 18 homes. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Firefighters monitor a flareup as they work to stop the advance of the Sand Fire near the town of Acton, California. Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Residents return to a home that was destroyed by fire in Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A fireman grabs his hose to battle a fire off Placerita Canyon Road in Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California The ruins of a home destroyed by the blaze in Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A plane drops fire retardant in the mountains near Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Burned-out film sets at the Sable Ranch. The ranch had Old West-style buildings seen in many movies and television shows. Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A burned pirate sculpture stands in the charred landscape in Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A helicopter makes a drop on a wildfire near Placerita Canyon Road in Santa Clarita on Sunday. Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Flames from the Sand Fire are reflected in a backyard swimming pool on Saturday in Santa Clarita.Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Flames close in on homes near Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A scorched landscape, left smoldering from the Sand Fire. Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A firefighter hoses down burning pipes near a water tank. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Firefighters of the Texas Canyon Hotshots fight the Sand Fire. Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Firefighters with the Valyermo Hotshots of the Angeles National Forest get ready to go back to work on Little Tujunga Canyon Road in Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 15 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A marker at the entrance of the Angeles National Forest. Hide Caption 16 of 16Towering columns of smoke could be seen from miles away, signposting the dangers of the so-called Sand Fire, named for the area's Sand Canyon.Read More