(CNN) Authorities in North Miami, Florida, on Friday identified the police officer who shot an unarmed African-American man lying in the street with his arms in the air this week.The officer is Jonathan Aledda, North Miami City Manager Larry Spring Jr. said at a press conference. Aledda, a four-year department veteran and a member of the SWAT team, has been placed on administrative leave.Officer Jonathan Aledda has been placed on administrative leave.A second police officer, Emile Hollant, has also been placed on administrative leave without pay after giving conflicting statements to investigators, Spring said.City authorities didn't provide more details about why police shot behavior therapist Charles Kinsey on Monday, apparently as he tried to protect an autistic patient in his care.The shooting has sparked street protests, and Spring said a First Amendment zone will be established outside the police department for demonstrators.Mayor Smith Joseph apologized to the wounded man and promised a complete investigation of the shooting."I have made it clear that I will not tolerate anything that goes against the process," the mayor said.Police union president speaks outEarlier Friday, John Rivera, president of the Dade County Police Benevolent Association, said a video of the shooting doesn't tell the whole story.The officer, Rivera said , had been aiming for the patient beside Kinsey, whom he thought posed a danger.But to Kinsey's boss, that explanation doesn't add up."The (union) is now trying to say they intended to shoot my client, and instead they shot my employee," Clint Bower told CNN's "New Day" on Friday. "To me, that's just outrageous."In cell phone footage, behavior therapist Charles Kinsey lies in the street with his hands in the air.Monday's shooting has led to a state investigation and questions over whether race played a role in the officer's response.But there's another side of the story that hasn't gotten as much attention.Kinsey is a highly trained behavior therapist who rushed out from a group home into the street to protect a patient with autism, his boss told CNN."Mr. Kinsey is a hero today. He saved the life of that disabled individual," said Bower, who runs the center for the developmentally disabled where Kinsey has worked for more than a year."This individual he was caring for is a person with significant behavioral issues, and Charles was specifically chosen to work with this individual as his one-on-one staff, because he is that much of a skilled employee," Bower said. "He has received extensive crisis intervention training. Unfortunately, our police department doesn't seem to have received that same training."Video shows tense sceneKinsey is hospitalized with a gunshot wound to his right leg after two or three shots were fired, according to his attorney.JUST WATCHED Police shoot unarmed man with his hands up Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police shoot unarmed man with his hands up 02:30A cell phone video, released by attorney Hilton Napoleon II and recorded by a bystander, shows the scene before the shooting: A man sits cross-legged on the ground, holding an object in his hand. Kinsey lies on the street, holds his hands in the air and yells to police that the man beside him is holding a toy truck, not a weapon.The video doesn't show what happened when the officer opened fire.Kinsey told CNN affiliate WSVN-TV in Miami that after the shooting, he was flipped over and handcuffed. Another video released by his attorney shows both men flat on the ground, with two officers standing near them. Kinsey is lying in the road, on his stomach and handcuffed. According to Napoleon, Kinsey was on the ground for 20 minutes before an ambulance arrived.Authorities haven't released details about the aftermath of the shooting, and the police union did not explain why Kinsey was handcuffed.Rivera, the police union chief, offered an explanation for the shooting. The police officer opened fire because he thought the other man, whom authorities later learned has autism, was loading a gun and was about to shoot Kinsey."Many officers thought the white male had a firearm. Only much later, when we're able to Monday morning quarterback, do we find out that it's a toy. Only much later do we find out that the individual was autistic. The officers on the scene did not know that," he said Thursday.Rivera said the video footage was "being portrayed poorly.""This is not a case of a rogue cop. This is not a case of police abuse," he said. "This is a case where a police officer was trying to save Mr. Kinsey's life, and unfortunately, his shot went astray."Video of the shooting itself hasn't surfaced, Napoleon said. He said the union's comments are "attempts to try to put a story together in an attempt to justify it.""That was a man who was at work, who was caring for another individual on the ground. He is still concerned, if you listen to the video, about his client. He still ends up getting shot," Napoleon said. "I don't understand, just like the rest of America, how someone could possibly try to justify this."Officer: 'I did what I had to do'The agency said officers responded to a 911 call about an armed man threatening to commit suicide, and opened fire after police attempted to negotiate.JUST WATCHED Miami cop who shot unarmed man: I did what I had to do Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Miami cop who shot unarmed man: I did what I had to do 01:53"Mr. Kinsey did everything right, let's be real clear about that," Rivera said. He said that the police officer involved "wishes nothing but the best for Mr. Kinsey and the officer is praying for his speedy recovery, as are we."Aledda issued a statement in the form of a text message, which Rivera read to reporters."I took this job to save lives and help people," according to the officer's text statement. "I did what I had to do in a split second to accomplish that, and hate to hear others paint me as something I'm not."'Why did you shoot me?'Kinsey told WSVN he was stunned by the shooting, like when a mosquito bites unexpectedly."When he hit me, I'm like, I still got my hands in the air," he said."I'm like, 'Sir, why did you shoot me?' " Kinsey said he asked the officer."He said to me, 'I don't know.' "However, Rivera, the police union chief, said Friday that if someone did say that to Kinsey, it wasn't the officer who shot him. The officer who fired the gun did not interact with Kinsey, Rivera said.North Miami police have said officers had "attempted to negotiate with the two men on the scene."Kinsey told WSVN he tried to persuade police not to harm his patient. He asked his patient to be still and lie down."Please be still ... get down ... lay on your stomach," Kinsey says in the video.The man beside him rocks back and forth."I was more worried about him than myself," Kinsey told WSVN."As long as I've got my hands up, they're not gonna shoot me, that's what I'm thinking," he said. "Wow, was I wrong."State takes over investigationThe Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating the shooting.Protesters flooded the North Miami police headquarters Thursday, demanding answers.Reports showing the video drew swift reactions on social media, with posts criticizing the officer who opened fire.claimed they were reacting in part to shootings such as those that led to the deaths of Sterling and Castile. Eight law enforcement officers have since been killed in separate incidents in Dallas and Baton Rouge , Louisiana, targeted by gunmen whoclaimed they were reacting in part to shootings such as those that led to the deaths of Sterling and Castile.'This is not supposed to be happening'David Klinger, a former police officer who's now a professor at the University of Missouri-St. Louis studying police violence, described the North Miami police's response as "an absolute failure.""The guy is trying to communicate, 'Hey, I'm an aid worker and this guy wandered away.' Why in the world the police don't know even that there is a residential place for people who are emotionally compromised?" he said. "For it to have devolved to a situation where deadly force was used makes absolutely no sense."Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings Protesters sit after being arrested after a march on July 10 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Many cities have seen an increase in protests since police-involved shootings. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings Demonstrators gather on July 9 at the Louisiana Capitol to protest the shooting of Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings A couple hold a sign protesting the killing of Philando Castile outside the governor's mansion on July 7, in St. Paul, Minnesota. Castile's death was live-streamed by his fiancée and quickly went viral. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings Protesters gather Wednesday, July 6, in front of the convenience store where Alton Sterling was fatally shot in Baton Rouge. Sterling, 37, was shot by police on Tuesday, July 5, and federal authorities are investigating what happened. Vigils and memorials spread across the country after cell phone video of the shooting was shared widely on social media. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings One of Sterling's children, Cameron, is comforted by a crowd outside the convenience store on July 6. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings Tawandra Carr, who said she was best friends with Alton Sterling, cries while people gather outside the convenience store on July 6. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings A woman joins others gathered at the scene of a police-involved shooting in Falcon Heights, Minnesota, on July 6. Philando Castile, 32, was fatally shot by police during a traffic stop. His fiancee, Diamond Reynolds, live-streamed the aftermath on Facebook. The shooting is being investigated. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings A crowd of community members gathers outside the governor's residence in St. Paul, Minnesota, following Castile's shooting. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings Community members and activists covered the governor's residence with police tape from the scene where Castile was killed. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings People in Baton Rouge demonstrate July 6 as police cars pass the convenience store where Alton Sterling was shot. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings Jordan Nuerenberg holds up a sign encouraging motorists to honk their horns outside the Baton Rouge convenience store. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings Protesters block traffic and dance on cars near the convenience store. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings A woman rings the doorbell at the gate of the governor's home in Minnesota after Castile's shooting on July 6. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings Community members and activists gather outside the Minnesota governor's home. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Reaction to recent police shootings Someone uses their phone to live-stream the investigation taking place at the scene of Castile's shooting. Hide Caption 15 of 15A U.S. congresswoman whose district includes North Miami told reporters she was shocked by Kinsey's shooting."This is not supposed to be happening in North Miami. North Miami is a city where the police officers and the community gel," Democratic Rep. Frederica Wilson said. "So many of our police officers come from the community (and) live in the community."Wilson described the city as a "melting pot.""We're not accustomed to this tension that is evolving because of this shooting," she said. "We have to follow up and see how we can break the tension and find solutions, because this cannot happen again."