Story highlights The photograph shows a woman standing in front of policeThe image, shot by Jonathan Bachman, is already being called iconic(CNN) Will this be the photograph that symbolizes this past week's protests?An image of what appears to be a woman's peaceful resistance to police is garnering plenty of attention online.Photos: Powerful images from a painful week Long after the hurt has healed and the anger has dissipated, it's the powerful images that will stick with us from a painful week in America: the killings of five Dallas police officers as well as the fatal shootings of two black men by police in Louisiana and Minnesota. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Powerful images from a painful week A young woman stands frozen -- clad in a flowing dress, armed only with a cell phone -- in the middle of a street as a pair of police officers move to arrest her. She was one of hundreds of protesters who blocked a Baton Rouge roadway during anti-police brutality demonstrations. The symbolism of a single person's nonviolent resistance against a large, heavily armed opposition is being viewed by some as the photo that symbolizes the week's protests. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Powerful images from a painful week Few other photos captured the sadness and grief of the shooting deaths of five Dallas officers as this photograph of a sobbing DART (Dallas Area Rapid Transit) police officer being comforted at the Baylor University Hospital. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Powerful images from a painful week The pain was just too much for Tawandra Carr to bear. Carr, who said she was best friends with Alton Sterling, cries when she and others gathered outside the Triple S convenience store where Sterling was killed by police, trying to make some sense of an incident that launched days of soul-searching in America. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Powerful images from a painful week Strength in numbers. All Lives Matter protesters come together for a group hug with Black Lives Matter activists in Dallas. All Lives Matter showed up to the Black Lives Matter Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Powerful images from a painful week Kim Muyaka -- head bowed, eyes closed, hands tightly entwined with those of an East Baton Rouge police officer -- prays that God would "cover this Police Officer ... and use his hands not to hurt or harm but to protect the citizens." Muyaka posted this now-viral photo to her Facebook page. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Powerful images from a painful week "I'm Black and I Matter" is the simple message of this sign, held up during a Black Lives Matter protest in London. A number of marches and demonstrations have popped up in other countries in solidarity with the U.S. protest movement. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Powerful images from a painful week A woman rages against the machine. Sirica Bolling, fist raised defiantly, marches down a street in Newport News, Virginia, during a Black Lives Matter protest. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Powerful images from a painful week Bishop T.D. Jakes, hugs first responder during a service that included a memorial to the five officers killed in Dallas. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Powerful images from a painful week Hands of comfort extend to Cameron Sterling, the son of Alton Sterling, outside the convenience store where Alton Sterling was shot and killed by police. Hide Caption 10 of 10Shot by Jonathan Bachman for Reuters , the photograph shows a black woman in profile, standing in the middle of the street as two police officers in riot gear seem to be preparing to arrest her in Baton Rouge, Louisiana."Everyone was given proper instructions and a certain amount of time to clear the roadway. If they did not, then they were arrested," said L'Jean McKneely, spokesman for the Baton Rouge Police Department.Powerful image of protester being detained near HQ of the Baton Rouge PD. via @reuters https://t.co/VVBnwixzqp pic.twitter.com/sM4QndNlfb — Jim Roberts (@nycjim) July 10, 2016People are already calling the photograph iconic on social media.