(CNN) Northeast beachgoers are no strangers to shark sightings. Now they can share news of those sightings in real time with friends -- and scientists.A new mobile app called Sharktivity allows users to track where sharks have been seen along the coast. They can also submit their own sightings.There is science behind the app, too. Sharktivity is being launched by the Atlantic White Shark Conservancy, a Massachusetts-based nonprofit that works to protect white sharks, also known as great whites. And it was developed in part by marine biologist Gregory Skomal, who has worked at the state's Division of Marine Fisheries for 29 years.Skomal and his team plan to vet each sighting that is submitted.The app includes the locations of some of the 80 sharks that researchers have already tagged. So far, it's available only for iPhone users.Photos: Best sharks in pop culture Photos: Best sharks in pop culture You've survived the cultural phenomena that were the first and second "Sharknado" movies without a bite. Ian Ziering and Tara Reid returned with the Syfy channel's "Sharknado 3: Oh Hell No!" on Wednesday, July 22. Click through to see more of our favorite sharks in pop culture. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Best sharks in pop culture Steven Spielberg's 1975 shark thriller "Jaws" gave birth to the summer blockbuster and a cultural love-hate relationship with swimming in the ocean. The filmmaker's classic also proved that these beasts were ready for their close-ups. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Best sharks in pop culture These dancing sharks (especially the left one) became an Internet meme after dancing with Katy Perry during the Super Bowl halftime show in February. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Best sharks in pop culture Maybe we can blame our current obsession with sharks on the generation who grew up watching "Jabberjaw," ABC's animated series that ran from 1976 to 1978. The kids' show was reportedly inspired by "Jaws," but this version was far more cuddly; Jabberjaw held regular jam sessions with his human pals. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Best sharks in pop culture Ever wondered where the phrase "jumped the shark" came from? You can thank the "Happy Days" writers for that one. In 1977, the beloved show took a plot turn it couldn't recover from when Henry Winkler's Fonzie literally "jumped a shark" while water skiing. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Best sharks in pop culture Decades before Syfy became the home of shark-related comedy, "Saturday Night Live" introduced "the cleverest species of them all" in its "Land Shark" sketch. It featured Chevy Chase as the trickster shark who preyed on unsuspecting humans with the lure of telegrams and flowers. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Best sharks in pop culture Disney's 1989 under-the-sea adventure "The Little Mermaid" began with a tense run-in with a shark. Unlike the chilling but affable characters Disney has produced lately, this shark was straight out of "Jaws" with its brutish strength and snapping teeth. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Best sharks in pop culture In 1997's "Austin Powers International Man of Mystery," all Dr. Evil wanted from his nefarious cohorts were "sharks with frickin' laser beams attached to their heads." It was an impossible request at the time -- he had to settle for ill-tempered sea bass -- but in 2012, one marine biologist figured it out. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Best sharks in pop culture Out of all the sharks in "Deep Blue Sea" -- like this guy seen terrorizing LL Cool J -- there's one that particularly stands out. In the 1999 film, Samuel L. Jackson was in the middle of giving a stirring speech when a toothy killer popped up from behind him and practically devoured him whole. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Best sharks in pop culture Disney/Pixar brought Steven Spielberg's Bruce to life again in 2003's "Finding Nemo." This Bruce was just as terrifying -- especially to a clownfish dad hunting for his son -- but at least he tried to live by the rule that "fish are friends, not food." Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Best sharks in pop culture In 2004, the shark wave rolled on with DreamWorks' "Shark Tale," featuring the voices of Will Smith, Angelina Jolie, Renee Zellweger and Jack Black as Lenny the shark. With Hans Zimmer composing, the soundtrack had just as much bite. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Best sharks in pop culture Syfy created a pop culture monster with 2010's "Sharktopus," which featured a genetically engineered creature that was half-shark, half-octopus. It was clearly the next step to take after 2009's "Mega Shark vs. Giant Octopus" battle, which featured an endlessly watchable scene of a plane being attacked by a ridiculously huge shark. Hide Caption 12 of 12Read More