(CNN) It took the National Park Service 46 years to memorialize New York's Stonewall uprising in memory of gay liberation; Pulse is being memorialized in Orlando much faster and by a much larger community.What a difference 47 years makes.The Orange County Regional History Center moved Tuesday to preserve the 49 crosses made by Greg Zanis, an Illinois carpenter moved by the June 12 massacre at Pulse nightclub, along with thousands of mementos laid as tributes to the victims in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history."To all those who are struggling to recover, our entire community stands with you," Orange County Mayor Teresa Jacobs said at the ceremony. "We are showing the world that this community will not be divided.""We stand in unity with our LGBTQ community. We stand in unity with our Hispanic community. We stand in unity with all members of Orange County."We will never forget the unity that this community has displayed. These crosses serve as a reminder that #LoveWins. #OrlandoUnited — Mayor Teresa Jacobs (@Mayor_Jacobs) July 12, 2016Pulse strove to be more than the hottest party scene; the venue also served as a gathering spot for the LGBT community and educational events. The club has worked with organizations ranging from Breast Cancer Awareness and Make A Wish to Come out with Pride and Gay Games Orlando 2018."Our mission at Pulse is to continue to raise the bar of awareness and be a part of our community in any way possible," the website said the night of the shooting.Before he was killed the morning of the massacre, the barricaded Mateen called 911 to pledge allegiance to ISIS and other jihadist terrorist groupsPhotos: World reacts to Orlando attack Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack U.S. President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden place flowers at a memorial Thursday, June 16, for the victims of the nightclub shooting in Orlando. At least 49 people were killed in the massacre, the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. Hide Caption 1 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People remember the victims during a vigil at an LGBT community center in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Tuesday, June 14. Hide Caption 2 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Jean Dasilva, left, is comforted by Felipe Soto as they mourn the loss of their friend Javier Jorge-Reyes on June 14. They were visiting a makeshift memorial at Pulse, the gay nightclub where the shooting took place. Hide Caption 3 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Britain's Prince William and his wife, Catherine, sign a book of condolences at the U.S. Embassy in London on June 14. Hide Caption 4 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack A vigil for the Orlando victims is held in New Delhi on June 14. Hide Caption 5 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Thousands gather in Orlando on Monday, June 13, to pay tribute to those who were killed the day before. Hide Caption 6 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack The Eiffel Tower in Paris is illuminated in rainbow colors on June 13. Hide Caption 7 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack A woman lights a candle during a vigil in Sydney on June 13. Hide Caption 8 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Runners pass under half-staff flags at the Washington Monument on June 13. Hide Caption 9 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack U.S. Ambassador to Thailand Glyn T. Davies, right, gestures to members of the LGBT community outside the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok, Thailand, on June 13. They were holding a vigil for the victims. Hide Caption 10 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Students in Mumbai, India, light candles near a rangoli, an Indian form of art created on the ground, on June 13. Hide Caption 11 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack White roses and rainbow flags are displayed in front of the U.S. Embassy in Berlin on June 13. Hide Caption 12 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People gather for a vigil in Seoul, South Korea, on June 13. Hide Caption 13 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack The city of Melbourne posted this image on its Twitter account June 13 "as a mark of respect for those touched by the attack in Orlando. Town Hall is lit in the rainbow #LoveIsLove." Hide Caption 14 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Mourners hold an LED sign as they march during a vigil in Dallas on Sunday, June 12. Hide Caption 15 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Lin-Manuel Miranda, creator of the musical "Hamilton," delivers a sonnet at the Tony Awards to pay tribute to the Orlando victims. Hide Caption 16 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack A rainbow flag flies at half-staff on the Space Needle in Seattle on June 12. Hide Caption 17 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Henry Duong pays tribute during a memorial service in San Diego. Hide Caption 18 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack One World Trade Center is lit in rainbow colors June 12 in New York. Hide Caption 19 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Mourners hold up signs during a vigil in Washington on June 12. Hide Caption 20 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Mourners gather during a vigil in front of the White House on June 12. President Barack Obama called the mass shooting an "act of terror" in remarks to the nation. Hide Caption 21 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Two women light candles during a vigil in front of the U.S. Embassy in Santiago, Chile, on June 12. Hide Caption 22 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Mourners observe a moment of silence during a vigil in Atlanta. Hide Caption 23 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Ryan Gibson, left, embraces Tabor Winstead during a vigil in Raleigh, North Carolina, on June 12. Hide Caption 24 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack A man injured in the attack stands with other mourners as they attend a memorial service at an Orlando church. Hide Caption 25 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Participants in the Los Angeles gay pride parade show their support for the victims on June 12. Hide Caption 26 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People hold candles near Rome's Colosseum as they take part in a ceremony on June 12. Hide Caption 27 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack A man places a handprint on a makeshift memorial near the nightclub where the attack took place. Hide Caption 28 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People gather for a vigil June 12 outside the Stonewall Inn in New York. Stonewall is considered the birthplace of the gay rights movement. Hide Caption 29 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People gather in Sao Paulo, Brazil, to mourn the Orlando victims on June 12. Hide Caption 30 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People gather for a vigil near the Beaubourg art center in Paris on June 12. Hide Caption 31 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People line up to donate blood at a blood bank in Orlando. Hide Caption 32 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People show their support for Orlando during the Los Angeles gay pride parade. Hide Caption 33 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack The Rev. Jeffrey Montoya leads a prayer in Greenfield, Wisconsin, on June 12. Hide Caption 34 of 34FBI Director James Comey said investigators were "highly confident" the 29-year-old gunman, who had been investigated and cleared for terrorist links by the FBI, was self-radicalized through the Internet.Mateen's electronic devices showed searches for jihadist propaganda, including videos of ISIS beheadings and of Anwar al-Awlaki, an influential American-born imam who worked as a spokesman for al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and was killed in 2011, according to one official.ISIS sympathizers praised the attack on pro-ISIS forums, while the official online ISIS radio channel Al-Bayan described it as a "raid on a crusader gathering" carried out by "one of the caliphate's soldiers in America."The city of Orlando -- gay and straight -- pulled together with supporters across the globe in the immediate aftermath of the attack. Residents turned out en masse a week afterward. There was a formal ceremony at the Cathedral Church of St. Luke, where the bell tolled once for each victim, and at an impromptu vigil at nearby Lake Eola Park, attended by an estimated 50,000 people.The mass gathering culminated a week of vigils around the world.JUST WATCHED Global vigils held for Orlando shooting victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Global vigils held for Orlando shooting victims 01:05"It was the LBGTQ and Hispanic community that was targeted, and it was hateful and it was public," said Chelsea Frost, an organizer of the Lake Eola vigil. "And I think it has to be public for the rest of the community to stand up and say, 'We're not OK with it, and we're going to get behind them and provide them with the support and strength they need. We love them so we will conquer that hate with love.' "JUST WATCHED Tens of thousands 'transcend hate' in Orlando Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tens of thousands 'transcend hate' in Orlando 01:41The crosses are being taken to a climate controlled environment to be preserved until a permanent memorial can be created. The history center also will preserve some of the other tributes left at makeshift memorials around the city -- letters, notes, signs and other tokens -- for the 49 killed and the approximately 50 injured during the attack.The city of Orlando has announced other plans to ensure the dead aren't forgotten.It plans a paver garden as a permanent memorial. The names of the victims will be on stones placed around Lake Beauty Park outside the Orlando Regional Medical Center where the crosses had been placed.Nine victims died at the hospital, where 28 operations were preformed on victims in the first 24 hours after the attack and 71 surgeries related to the attack have been performed to date, hospital CEO David Strong said.Four victims remain hospitalized, Strong said.The exact nature of the future county memorial is not determined, said Orange County Regional History Center Director Michael Perkins. But the power of the crosses, which Zanis had placed outside the medical center after driving them 1,200 miles from Aurora, Illinois, was indisputable, at least for many people, and especially for one mother.Mayra Alvear, whose daughter Amanda was killed in the attack, was overwhelmed by emotion as she watched the crosses gathered Tuesday and helped pick up her daughter's cross and load it into the truck.For her, the crosses' new home exemplified a beloved community."Everything was done with respect and honor," she said. "Love wins. Love, no hate."