Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Terror reaches a new low. NASA reaches a new high. It's Tuesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Terrorism2. JunoThe biggest planet in the solar system's has some company this morning. NASA's Juno spacecraft started orbiting Jupiter late last night after completing a five-year, 1,740-million-mile journey to the gas giant. Juno -- a spinning, robotic probe as wide as a basketball court -- will study Jupiter's interior, hoping to unlock clues to its origins. Scientists think Jupiter was the first planet to form in our solar system, so by learning more about it we'll hopefully learn more on how the solar system evolved as well.3. Campaign 2016Guess all political junkies will be Tar Heels today. Both of the presidential candidates will be in the battleground state of North Carolina. Hillary Clinton will campaign this afternoon in Charlotte with President Obama, after she gets a lift on Obama's ride , Air Force One. Hey, who's paying for that? That's what Donald Trump, who'll be rallying in Raleigh tonight, wants to know. All of this comes after a tough holiday weekend for both of them. Clinton was interviewed by the FBI over her emails, while Trump caught flack over a tweet about Clinton that many considered anti-Semitic.4. Rio Olympics5. Missing studentA man was arrested this morning in the death of a U.S. college student in Rome. Beau Solomon, from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, disappeared early Friday after leaving a bar. He'd just arrived in Italy for a summer study abroad program. His body was found yesterday in the Tiber River.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.One way to celebrate the FourthJoey "Jaws" Chestnut celebrates Independence Day by stuffing as many hot dogs as he can down his throat and winning Nathan's Hot Dog Eating ContestGearxit?We know this doesn't involve Brexit, but Chris Evans, who left "Top Gear" yesterday, joins a growing list of Brits who've quit things recently.Super goodbyeNoel Neill, the first to play Lois Lane in the "Superman" movies, died over the weekend at her home in Arizona. She was 95.Art of the dollarAn artist makes a political statement using a politician's favorite thing as his canvas -- cold hard cashMark Wagner creates collages out of currency.Time to burn a jersey?