Story highlights Fire destroys the Sable Ranch, where many movies and TV shows were shotDead body found in torched car; firefighters' homes destroyed(CNN) A raging California wildfire has set more than 33,000 acres of the Santa Clarita Valley ablaze and threatens to ignite thousands of homes as winds push the flames from the forest toward the Antelope Valley, the Los Angeles County Fire Department said.The so-called Sand Fire grew more than 10,000 acres on Sunday alone, and has burned up to 18 homes, Los Angeles County fire Chief John Tripp said at a news conference late Sunday. The fire remains at 10% containment, the U.S. Forest Service said.Three of the scorched homes belonged to firefighters.Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A hillside erupts in flame in Placerita Canyon in Santa Clarita, California on Monday, July 25. Fire officials said the so-called Sand Fire was growing at the rate of 10,000 acres per day and could potentially spread in any of three directions depending on changing winds. The wildfire has already scorched more than 33,000 acres and destroyed at least 18 homes. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Firefighters monitor a flareup as they work to stop the advance of the Sand Fire near the town of Acton, California. Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Residents return to a home that was destroyed by fire in Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A fireman grabs his hose to battle a fire off Placerita Canyon Road in Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California The ruins of a home destroyed by the blaze in Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A plane drops fire retardant in the mountains near Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Burned-out film sets at the Sable Ranch. The ranch had Old West-style buildings seen in many movies and television shows. Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A burned pirate sculpture stands in the charred landscape in Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A helicopter makes a drop on a wildfire near Placerita Canyon Road in Santa Clarita on Sunday. Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Flames from the Sand Fire are reflected in a backyard swimming pool on Saturday in Santa Clarita.Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Flames close in on homes near Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A scorched landscape, left smoldering from the Sand Fire. Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A firefighter hoses down burning pipes near a water tank. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Firefighters of the Texas Canyon Hotshots fight the Sand Fire. Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California Firefighters with the Valyermo Hotshots of the Angeles National Forest get ready to go back to work on Little Tujunga Canyon Road in Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 15 of 16 Photos: Sand Fire scorches California A marker at the entrance of the Angeles National Forest. Hide Caption 16 of 16Firefighter Sergio Toscano of the U.S. Forest Service learned his home was torched while battling another fire, CNN affiliate KABC-TV in Los Angeles said."We were assigned to a fire at Camp Pendleton, the Roblar Fire, I was getting text and phone calls from back home updating me on the fire that was going on back home," Toscano told KABC.Read More