Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Reaching for the sky, tweeting up a storm, rescuing Cupcake. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Democratic National ConventionHillary Clinton -- beaming, smiling, bursting with pride -- fully embraced the history she made last night as the first woman to lead a major presidential ticket: "When there are no ceilings, the sky's the limit." Her speech lacked the poetic sweep of President Obama's , but it was in keeping with someone who presents herself as a practical, perseverant, policy-oriented striver who, in true Chumbawamba style , gets knocked down, gets up again. But she didn't forget about Donald Trump, pummeling him even more than many expected. Can you really trust a man "you can bait with a tweet," she said.Here are the key moments from her speechHere are the 10 takeaways from the convention2. Donald Trump3. Chandra LevyFor years we thought it was Ingmar Guandique, an illegal immigrant from El Salvador, who killed Chandra Levy. But prosecutors pulled a shocker yesterday : they'll drop charges because of "unforeseen developments." They wouldn't say what. Levy's disappearance 15 years ago was a media sensation, mainly because of her romantic hookup with a California congressman. Guandique will soon be released -- to immigration officials, who plan to deport him.4. TerrorismISIS is going to fall. And when it does, terrorism in the West will get worse. Wait, what? That's what FBI Director James Comey predicts. He says when ISIS' self-proclaimed caliphate in Syria is finally crushed, a "terrorist diaspora" will fan out across the world, launching more attacks. ISIS has lost 12% of its territory in western Iraq and northern Syria this year.5. Pope FrancisPope Francis is at Auschwitz this morning. Francis' visit to the notorious World War II Nazi concentration camp (and his tribute to its victims) is part of his tour of Poland for World Youth Day. Yesterday he delivered Mass before thousands in Krakow on the 1,050th anniversary of Poland's "baptism" as a Catholic country. Francis traveled to Krakow on a tram with 20 disabled youth and called on young people to have a positive impact on the world.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Ancient illsCancer's being plaguing humanity for much longer than we thought. Scientists found cancer in a foot bone and spine nearly 2 million years old.Shark baitTaking on opposing QBs was no problem for Warren Sapp during his playing career. Sharks? He met one during a recent fishing trip. It didn't go well.Deep thoughtsEver think about the world's deepest underwater sinkhole ? We hadn't either. But if you care, it's been found. It's 987 feet deep, in the South China Sea.Burritos to burgersChipotle's jumping in the burger biz . Might as well, since the Mexican food chain is struggling to right the ship after an E. coli outbreak hobbled it business.Saving a cupcakeTwitter rejoiced over the rescue of a 13-year-old horse named Cupcake, including the fact it was tweeted in real time. See, social media isn't all bad.Quote of the day"You have sacrificed nothing and no one."Khizr Khan, father of a Muslim-American soldier killed in Iraq, , father of a Muslim-American soldier killed in Iraq, blasting Donald Trump's proposed ban on Muslims.Number of the day$859 millionThat's how much Google lost last quarter on its "moonshot" projects, like self-driving cars and Google Fiber. We're pretty sure Google's not going broke, though.AND FINALLY ...Funny faceIt's been a pretty intense week. Here's just the thing to end it with: a music class full of toddlers and one little boy with an adorable case of the giggles.