(CNN) Pat Summitt , who built the University of Tennessee's Lady Volunteers into a perennial power on the way to becoming the winningest coach in the history of major college basketball, died Tuesday.Her death came five years after she was diagnosed with Alzheimer's Disease. She was 64.Summitt battled the disease with "fierce determination just as she did with every opponent she ever faced," her son, Tyler Summitt, said."Even though it's incredibly difficult to come to terms that she is no longer with us, we can all find peace in knowing she no longer carries the heavy burden of this disease," Tyler Summitt said.Former U.S. Rep. Mike Oxley -- co-author of a landmark anti-corporate-fraud law that bears his name -- died on January 1. He was 71.Producer Robert Stigwood , the creative force behind "Saturday Night Fever," "Grease" and other cultural blockbusters of the 1970s, died on January 4. He was 81.French fashion designer Andre Courreges, famous for his "space age" designs of the 1960s and 1970s, died on January 7, his family told CNN affiliate France 3. He was 92.French fashion designer Andre Courreges, famous for his "space age" designs of the 1960s and 1970s, died on January 7, his family told CNN affiliate France 3. He was 92.Baseball Hall of Fame outfielder Monte Irvin died January 11 at the age of 96. Irvin was regarded as one of the best hitters and all-around players in the Negro League, making five All-Star teams. He became one of the first African-Americans to play in the majors, and he played a vital role in the New York Giants' World Series runs in 1951 and 1954.At left is Bob Elliott , half of the TV and radio comedy duo Bob and Ray. He died February 2 at the age of 92. For several decades, Elliott and Ray Goulding's program parodies and deadpan routines were staples of radio and television. Elliott was the father of comedian and actor Chris Elliott and the grandfather of "Saturday Night Live" cast member Abby Elliott.U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia , the leading conservative voice on the high court, died at the age of 79, a government source and a family friend told CNN on February 13.Singer Sonny James , who ruled the country music charts for nearly 20 years, died February 22 at the age of 87.Former first lady Nancy Reagan , who joined her husband on a storybook journey from Hollywood to the White House, died of heart failure on March 6. She was known as a fierce protector of her husband, President Ronald Reagan, as well as a spokeswoman of the "just say no" anti-drug campaign. She was 94.Actor Larry Drake , best known for his role as Benny on "L.A. Law," died at his home in Los Angeles on March 17, according to his manager Steven Siebert. Drake was 66.Malik Taylor, better known to fans as Phife Dawg of the rap group A Tribe Called Quest, died March 23 at the age of 45. He's seen here at center during a performance in 1996. Taylor had long suffered from health issues associated with having Type 1 diabetes. In 2008, he underwent a kidney transplant.Author and poet Jim Harrison died March 26 at his winter home in Arizona. He was 78. His many books include "Legends of the Fall," which was made into a 1994 movie starring Brad Pitt and Anthony Hopkins.Actor James Noble , who played Gov. Eugene X. Gatling in the television series "Benson," died from a stroke on March 28. He was 94.Actress Patty Duke , star of "The Patty Duke Show," died March 29, at the age of 69. Duke won an Academy Award at age 16 for playing Helen Keller in 1962's "The Miracle Worker."Architect Zaha Hadid , whose designs include the London Olympic Aquatic Centre, died March 31, a spokesperson from Zaha Hadid Design told CNN. She was 65. Hadid died of a heart attack in a Miami hospital where she was being treated for bronchitis, according to her firm's press office.Country music legend Merle Haggard died on April 6 -- his 79th birthday -- of complications from pneumonia, his agent Lance Roberts told CNN.Actress Doris Roberts , best known for her role as Marie Barone on the sitcom "Everybody Loves Raymond," died April 17. She was 90.The musician Prince died at his home in Minnesota on April 21 at age 57. The medical examiner later determined he died of an accidental overdose of the opioid fentanyl.Grammy-winning songwriter Guy Clark died May 17 at the age of 74. The Texas native died after a long illness, according to a statement from his publicist.CBS News legend Morley Safer , whose work on "60 Minutes" embodied the show's 50 years on air, died at the age of 84, according to CBS on May 19.Actor Alan Young , known for his role as Wilbur Post in the television show "Mr. Ed," died on May 19. He was 96.Drummer Nick Menza , who played on many of Megadeth's most successful albums, died after collapsing on stage during a show with his current band, Ohm, on May 21. He was 51.Mixed martial arts fighter Kimbo Slice died June 6 at the age of 42. Slice, whose real name was Kevin Ferguson, initially gained fame from online videos that showed him engaging in backyard bare-knuckle fights. He then became a professional fighter with a natural charisma that endeared him to fans.Hockey legend Gordie Howe , left, scored 801 goals in his NHL career and won four Stanley Cups with the Detroit Red Wings. Howe, also known as "Mr. Hockey," died June 10 at the age of 88, his son Marty said.Singer Christina Grimmie died June 11 from gunshot wounds. The 22-year-old singer, who finished third on season 6 of "The Voice" on NBC, was shot while signing autographs after a concert in Orlando.Singer Attrell Cordes , known as Prince Be of the music duo P.M. Dawn, died June 17 after suffering from diabetes and renal kidney disease, according to a statement from the group. He was 46.Actor Ron Lester , who portrayed Billy Bob in the 1999 football movie "Varsity Blues," died June 17 at the age of 45, according to his representative Dave Bradley. Bradley said Lester died of organ failure -- specifically his liver and his kidneys. Lester had openly talked about his struggle with his illness on Twitter.Bluegrass music pioneer Ralph Stanley died June 23 at the age of 89, publicist Kirt Webster announced on Stanley's official website. Stanley was already famous in bluegrass and roots music circles when the 2000 hit movie "O Brother, Where Art Thou?" thrust him into the mainstream. He provided a haunting a cappella version of the dirge "O Death" and ended up winning a Grammy.Scotty Moore, a legendary guitarist credited with helping to launch Elvis Presley's career, died at the age of 84 on June 28. Moore is a member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and he was ranked No. 29 on Rolling Stone's list of the 100 greatest guitarists.Scotty Moore, a legendary guitarist credited with helping to launch Elvis Presley's career, died at the age of 84 on June 28. Moore is a member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and he was ranked No. 29 on Rolling Stone's list of the 100 greatest guitarists.Nobel Peace Prize laureate and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel died at the age of 87 on July 2. Wiesel's book "La Nuit" is the story of the Wiesel family being sent to Nazi concentration camps.Director Michael Cimino , whose searing 1978 Vietnam War drama "The Deer Hunter" won five Oscars, including best picture, died July 2. He was 77.Actress Noel Neill , who played Lois Lane in the 1950s TV version of "Superman," died July 3 at the age of 95.Actor David Huddleston , perhaps best known for his role in the 1998 film "The Big Lebowski," died August 2 at the age of 85.Famous New Orleans jazz clarinetist Pete Fountain died August 6 of heart failure. He was 86.British actor Kenny Bake r, best known for playing R2-D2 in the "Star Wars" films, died on August 13, Baker's niece, Abigail Shield, told CNN. He was 81.Actor Steven Hill , best known for playing District Attorney Adam Schiff on NBC's "Law & Order," died August 23, his son confirmed to CNN. He was 94.Mexican music icon Juan Gabriel, who wooed audiences with soulful pop ballads that made him a Latin American music legend, died August 28 at the age of 66.Actor Gene Wilder , who brought a wild-eyed desperation to a series of memorable and iconic comedy roles in the 1970s and 1980s, died August 29 at the age of 83. Some of his most famous films include "Young Frankenstein," "Blazing Saddles" and "Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory."Character actor Jon Polito, who appeared in films such as "American Gangster" and "The Big Lebowski," died September 2, his manager confirmed. He was 65.Character actor Jon Polito, who appeared in films such as "American Gangster" and "The Big Lebowski," died September 2, his manager confirmed. He was 65.Actor Hugh O'Brian , best known for his portrayal of the title role in the 1950's TV Western "The Life and Legend of Wyatt Earp," died on September 5. He was 91.Legendary playwright Edward Albee -- whose works included "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" -- died at the age of 88 after a short illness, according to his personal assistant Jakob Holder. Albee died September 16 at his home in Montauk, New York."L.A. Confidential" director and writer Curtis Hanson , 71, died of natural causes on September 20, Los Angeles police said. He won an Oscar with Brian Helgeland for the screenplay on "L.A. Confidential," and he also directed "8 Mile" and "Wonder Boys."Grammy and Emmy Award winner Stanley Dural Jr., also known as Buckwheat Zydeco, died September 24 in Lafayette, Louisiana. He was 68.Veteran actor Bill Nunn, best known for playing Radio Raheem in "Do the Right Thing" and Robbie Robertson in the "Spider-Man" trilogy, died September 24 at age 63.Miami Marlins pitcher Jose Fernandez , one of baseball's brightest stars, was killed in a boating accident September 25, Florida authorities said. He was 24.Golfing legend Arnold Palmer , who helped turn the sport from a country club pursuit to one that became accessible to the masses, died September 25 at the age of 87, according to the U.S. Golf Association.Award-winning author Gloria Naylor , whose explorations of the lives of black women in the 1980s and 1990s earned her wide acclaim, died on September 28. She was 66.Actor Tommy Ford , best known for his role as Tommy in the 1990s hit sitcom "Martin," died in Atlanta, a spokeswoman for his family announced on October 12. Ford was 52.Actor and comedian Kevin Meaney , who had been a regular on late-night TV and was famous for delivering the line, "That's not right," died, his agent said October 21. Meaney's age and the cause of death weren't immediately known.Canadian singer-songwriter Leonard Cohen died at the age of 82, according to a post on his official Facebook page on November 10. A highly respected artist known for his poetic and lyrical music, Cohen wrote a number of popular songs, including the often-covered "Hallelujah."Actor Ron Glass , known for his role on the police sitcom "Barney Miller," died November 25, his agent said. Glass also starred in "Firefly" and its film sequel "Serenity."Actor Alan Thicke , known for his role as the father in the sitcom "Growing Pains," died on December 13, according to his agent, Tracy Mapes. He was 69. Thicke's career spanned five decades -- one in which he played various roles on and off screen, from actor to writer to composer to author.English novelist Richard Adams , author of the famous children's book "Watership Down," died at the age of 96 on December 24.Singer George Michael , who shot to fame with the '80s band Wham!, died on Christmas Day, according to Britain's Press Association. He was 53 years old.Actor and comedian Ricky Harris , who was a regular on the TV sitcom "Everybody Hates Chris" and first gained attention on HBO's "Def Comedy Jam," died December 26, according to his publicist. He was 54.Actress Carrie Fisher , best known for her role as Princess Leia in the "Star Wars" franchises, died December 27, according to her daughter's publicist. Fisher had suffered a cardiac event on December 23. She was 60 years old.In her 38 years at Tennessee, Summitt won eight national titles and 1,098 games -- the most by any Division 1 basketball coach, male or female. Her teams made an unprecedented 31 consecutive appearances in the NCAA Tournament.Beyond the wins and the statistics, Summitt had a profound impact on women's college athletics.When she became head coach of the Lady Vols in 1974 at the age of 22 -- barely older than some of her players -- the NCAA did not even formally recognize women's basketball. Summitt had to drive the team van to road games herself.As the wins and the championships piled up, Summitt's astonishing achievements commanded national attention and helped usher women's basketball into the spotlight."She'll be remembered as the all-time winningest D-1 basketball coach in NCAA history, but she was more than a coach to so many -- she was a hero and a mentor, especially to me, her family, her friends, her Tennessee Lady Volunteer staff and the 161 Lady Vol student-athletes she coached during her 38-year tenure," Tyler Summitt said.Current Lady Vols Coach Holly Warlick credited Summitt with playing a "very significant role in molding me into the person I am.""Pat gave me strength and courage to face anything," Warlick said. "She was driven to perfection and always remained true to her standards. That meant doing things the right way, no matter what. In my eyes, there's never been anyone better than Pat Summitt."This is a sad day in the basketball community. Thank you Pat Summitt for everything you've done for our game. — Lindsey Harding (@Lindsey_Harding) June 28, 2016A leader through victories and tough timesPhotos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt Pat Summitt, who built the University of Tennessee's Lady Volunteers into a perennial power on the way to becoming the winningest coach in the history of major college basketball, died Tuesday, June 28. Her death came five years after she was diagnosed with Alzheimer's Disease. She was 64. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt University of Tennessee-Martin Skyhawks women's basketball player Pat Summitt goes for the lay-up at the Elam Center in Martin, Tennessee, in the 1970s. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt Coach Pat Summitt is carried off the floor by her players after the USA won the gold medal in basketball against Korea in the 1984 Olympics. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt University of Tennessee head coach Pat Summitt during a game against Alabama played in Knoxville, Tennessee, on January 28, 1996. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt President George Bush honors the University of Tennessee Lady Volunteers, the woman's NCAA Basketball tournament champions, in the White House Rose Garden on April 22, 1991. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt Tennessee coach Pat Summitt and son Tyler, 5, take down the net after winning the NCAA Women's Final Four against Georgia at the Charlotte Coliseum in North Carolina on March 31, 1996. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt President Bill Clinton and Kentucky Wildcats coach Rick Pitino listen to Tennessee Lady Vols coach Pat Summitt during a White House ceremony on May 20, 1996 honoring the NCAA men's and women's college basketball champions. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt Tennessee players and head coach Pat Summitt join hands before taking the court against Kentucky in an NCAA college basketball championship game at the Southeastern Conference tournament on March 6, 2011, in Nashville. Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt Tennessee Lady Vols player Alberta Auguste hugs head coach Pat Summitt as they celebrate their 59-46 victory against the Rutgers Scarlet Knights to win the 2007 NCAA Women's Basketball Championship Game on April 3, 2007 in Cleveland, Ohio. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt Coach Pat Summitt celebrates after Tennessee's 59-46 win against the Rutgers Scarlet Knights to win the 2007 NCAA Women's Basketball Championship Game on April 3, 2007 in Cleveland, Ohio. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt Tennessee coach Pat Summitt has confetti dumped on her by Alicia Manning and Alex Fuller after an NCAA college basketball game against Georgia on February 5, 2009 in Knoxville. Tennessee won 73-43, giving Summitt her 1,000th career victory. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt Tennessee Volunteers coach Pat Summitt holds the championship trophy after winning the SEC Women's Basketball Tournament Championship game on March 4, 2012 in Nashville. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt Former NCAA basketball coach Pat Summitt is presented with a Presidential Medal of Freedom by U.S. President Barack Obama on May 29, 2012 at the White House. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: Legendary coach Pat Summitt Tennessee Lady Vols head coach Pat Summitt accepts the Arthur Ashe Courage Award onstage during the 2012 ESPY Awards on July 11, 2012. Hide Caption 14 of 14Summitt's impressive coaching record earned her a spot in the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2000.In 2011, she announced she was diagnosed with early onset Alzheimer's, but vowed to keep coaching."This is not a pity party," she said. "We're not going to sit here and feel sorry for Pat Summitt."She stayed on for one more year, securing the Lady Vols their 16th SEC Championship under her leadership before retiring. But she didn't step away from the sport she loved.She retired in 2012 , eight months after her diagnosis."If anyone asks, you can find me observing practice or in my office," Summitt said at the time. "Coaching is the great passion of my life, and the job to me has always been an opportunity to work with our student athletes and help them discover what they want. I will continue to make them my passion."More than a coach, more than a celebrityAlthough she was notoriously tough on the sidelines, Summitt's legacy extended far beyond the game."We learned about what it takes to be a leader, what it takes to be a great woman, what it takes to be a great lady, what it takes to have character, what it takes to have poise," said former Lady Vol and WNBA star Tamika Catchings in 2013.Summitt's concern for her players extended to the classroom as well. All of the athletes she coached who completed their eligibility went on to graduate from the university.Summitt's success made her a legend at the University of Tennessee, even to the school's other celebrated heroes. In 2012, Tennessee alum and NFL quarterback Peyton Manning presented Summitt with the Arthur Ashe Courage Award at ESPN's ESPY Awards."I just always appreciated Pat's friendship and support," Manning said Tuesday. "I was always impressed with how all of her former players spoke about her. You speak to people like Tamika Catchings or Chamique Holdsclaw, and they just talk about the role that Pat played in all their lives on and off the court. You can just tell the impact that she had on those players."In 2012, President Barack Obama awarded Summitt the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor.On Tuesday, he called her a patriot, a "proud Tennessean" and an unparalleled winner."Her legacy, however, is measured much more by the generations of young women and men who admired Pat's intense competitiveness and character, and as a result found in themselves the confidence to practice hard, play harder, and live with courage on and off the court," Obama said."For four decades, she outworked her rivals, made winning an attitude, loved her players like family, and became a role model to millions of Americans, including our two daughters," Obama said.RIP, @patsummitt ... Coach 'em up in heaven. Your legacy in sports is set. So many people were touched by your leadership and greatness. — Michele Tafoya (@Michele_Tafoya) June 28, 2016Vols Nation in mourningSummitt remained a pillar of the University of Tennessee community and culture until her death. When news of her illness became public in 2012, "We Back Pat" became a rallying cry for thousands upon thousands of students and supporters who attended games bearing t-shirts and signs with the slogan.As news of her death spread, reaction began to pour in from Tennessee and around the country.There is so much to respect about Pat Summitt, but the way her players and colleagues loved her is the most inspiring to me. #PatSummitt — Kurt Roper (@CoachKurtRoper) June 28, 2016Rest in peace to the greatest women's basketball coach ever!!! You will be missed @patsummitt — Jabari Parker (@JabariParker) June 28, 2016"We have lost a legend," NCAA President Mark Emmert said Tuesday. "Pat Summitt's courage and tenacity on and off the court should be commended and emulated. Her commitment to excellence and developing young people leaves a powerful imprint on college basketball, higher education, and all individuals who have sought to excel in sports and life."Tennessee issued a statement calling Summit "a global icon who transcended sports and spent her entire life making a difference in other people's lives.""Pat was so much more than a Hall of Fame coach; she was a mother, mentor, leader, friend, humanitarian and inspiration to so many," the school said. "Her legacy will live on through the countless people she touched throughout her career."Numerous coaches, players and journalists also offered respects.