(CNN) Shortly after being elected nearly two years ago, Baltimore State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby said prosecutors in her troubled city had the "toughest job in America."It's not getting any easier.After three police officers were acquitted in recent months of charges related to last year's high-profile death of Freddie Gray, prosecutors announced Wednesday they were dropping all charges against the three remaining officers facing trial in connection with Gray's death.The news was a defeat for Mosby, who had announced the charges against the six officers in May 2015 -- four months after she took the job as the city's top prosecutor. At the time, she drew praise from some who admired how swiftly she took on the case, and criticism from others who said there wasn't enough evidence to convict the officers.But on Wednesday Mosby said she had no choice but to drop the charges -- ending a 15-month legal saga that strained relations between her office and the city's police department.'Dismal likelihood of conviction'Still, Mosby struck a defiant tone. Standing at the intersection where police arrested Gray in April 2015 she railed against police officers whom she accused of kneecapping her office's investigation.Police investigating police is "problematic," she said, citing "the obvious bias consistently exemplified" by some officers throughout the case. Officers who were witnesses were placed on the investigation team, lead detectives were uncooperative, the department launched a "counter-investigation" to disprove her case and officers created notes after the case was launched and gave them to the defense months before they were provided to the state, she alleged.Baltimore Fraternal Order of Police President Gene Ryan called Mosby's accusations "outrageous" and "simply not true." Ivan Bates, an attorney for Sgt. Alicia White -- one of the six accused officers -- appeared at police union headquarters with his client and the other five officers and said it was Mosby's office that had denied the Gray family justice.CNN legal analyst Paul Callan, a former prosecutor, said Mosby's passionate speech that suggested police collusion and tampering with evidence, was "the most inflammatory statement I have ever seen a prosecutor deliver."'Not an indictment' of all policeMosby, 35, comes from a long line of police officers, including her late grandfather, four uncles and her mother. Her grandfather, she noted, was a founding member of the first African-American police organization in Massachusetts.While announcing charges, Mosby said she was not anti-police."To the rank-and-file officers of the Baltimore City Police Department, please know that the accusations of these six officers are not an indictment on the entire force," she said at the time. She reiterated that sentiment during Wednesday's remarks."For those that believe that I'm anti-police, it's simply not the case. I'm anti-police brutality. And I need not remind you that the only loss -- and the greatest loss -- in all of this was that of Freddie Gray's life," Mosby told reporters Wednesday.Marilyn Mosby comes from a long line of police officers, including her grandfather, four uncles and her mother.Gray died at hospital April 19, 2015, from a fatal spinal cord injury, one week after he was taken into custody. Prosecutors argued the 25-year-old suffered the injury while being transported "handcuffed, shackled by his feet and unrestrained" inside a police van. It is against police policy to transport a prisoner without proper restraints such as a seat belt.Gray's mysterious death turned the largely black city near the nation's capital into a tinderbox. Mostly peaceful demonstrations erupted in pockets of looting and rioting in the hours after Gray's funeral. A citywide curfew was put into effect, and National Guard troops joined Baltimore police in an attempt to maintain order.Photos: Baltimore protests Photos: Baltimore protests People hold hands during a rally at Baltimore City Hall on Sunday, May 3. The death of Freddie Gray, who died in police custody, sparked rioting in Baltimore and protests across the country Hide Caption 1 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Members of the National Guard board a truck at an armory staging area on May 3 in Baltimore. After a night of relatively peaceful protests, the city lifted a curfew , the National Guard is preparing its exit and a mall that had been a flashpoint in the protests has been reopened. Hide Caption 2 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Medics take a man away after police pepper-sprayed him on Saturday, May 2, in Baltimore's Sandtown neighborhood where Freddie Gray was arrested in April. Hide Caption 3 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police detain a man on May 2 in Baltimore's Sandtown neighborhood. Hide Caption 4 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters hold signs on May 2 in the Sandtown neighborhood. Hide Caption 5 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters march from the Gilmor Homes housing community, where Freddie Gray was arrested, to City Hall on Saturday, May 2, in Baltimore. Hide Caption 6 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police in riot gear enforce a 10 p.m. curfew and clear Baltimore streets of protesters and media on Friday, May 1. Hide Caption 7 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests U.S. Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Maryland, helps clear Baltimore streets of protesters on May 1. Hide Caption 8 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators celebrate the announcement that six officers were charged May 1 in Gray's death. Hide Caption 9 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators march through the streets of Baltimore after the charges against the officers were announced May 1. Hide Caption 10 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police on horseback block a Baltimore street on May 1. Hide Caption 11 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A demonstrator celebrates in Baltimore the charges were announced on May 1. Hide Caption 12 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A member of the National Guard stands outside Baltimore City Hall as protesters gather on Wednesday, April 29. Hide Caption 13 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests High school and college students march from Baltimore's Penn Station to City Hall on April 29. Hide Caption 14 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A community organizer later identified as Joseph Kent paces in front of riot police with his hands up during a curfew in Baltimore on Tuesday, April 28. Moments later, he was seen being arrested by police live on CNN . Kent's lawyer said on April 30 that his client had been released from jail. While some protesters defied the curfew and faced off with police, demonstrations Tuesday were largely peaceful. Hide Caption 15 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests State Sen. Catherine E. Pugh embraces a protester while urging the crowd to disperse ahead of the 10 p.m. curfew. Hide Caption 16 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People attempt to stop protesters from approaching a police line on April 28. Hide Caption 17 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A Baltimore police captain tries to calm a protester on April 28. Hide Caption 18 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Two women sweep up the streets in Baltimore -- reflected in the broken window of a storefront on April 28. See more photos of the cleanup efforts. Hide Caption 19 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A band plays music during protests on April 28 in Baltimore. Hide Caption 20 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A boy in Baltimore offers water to a police officer on April 28. Hide Caption 21 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Jerrie Mckenny, left, and her sister Tia Sexton embrace as demonstrators hold hands and sing the hymn "Amazing Grace" in Baltimore on April 28. Hide Caption 22 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators stand in front of a police line and call for peace after a bottle was thrown on April 28. Hide Caption 23 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Maryland National Guardsmen patrol the streets on April 28. Hide Caption 24 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests The remains of a senior center smolder on April 28. Riots broke out Monday, April 27, after Freddie Gray's funeral Hide Caption 25 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police retreat from burned-out cars in an intersection on Monday, April 27. Hide Caption 26 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Firefighters respond to a burning building during the riots late April 27. Hide Caption 27 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer walks by a burning building on April 27. Hide Caption 28 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police stand guard on April 27. Hide Caption 29 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters climb on a destroyed Baltimore Police car in the street near the corner of Pennsylvania and North avenues on April 27. Hide Caption 30 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A mixture of milk and water rolls down a man's chest after he was pepper sprayed by the Baltimore Police April 27. Hide Caption 31 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A man rides a bicycle through heavy smoke emitting from a nearby store on fire April 27. Hide Caption 32 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A man shouts for calm as protesters clash with police April 27. Hide Caption 33 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police carry an injured officer from the streets near Mondawmin Mall in Baltimore on April 27. Hide Caption 34 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People carrying goods leave a CVS pharmacy near Pennsylvania and North avenues on April 27. Hide Caption 35 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A demonstrator raises his fist as police stand in formation on April 27. Hide Caption 36 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Armored cars drive down Pennsylvania Avenue as looters break into shops on April 27. Hide Caption 37 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People lock arms and form a line opposing police at the corner of Pennsylvania and North avenues on April 27. Hide Caption 38 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police form a barrier between protesters and a burning CVS being attended to by firefighters on April 27. Hide Caption 39 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People carry goods out of a CVS pharmacy on April 27. Hide Caption 40 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police vehicle burns April 27. Hide Caption 41 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer throws an object at protesters on April 27. Hide Caption 42 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A man carries items from a store as police vehicles burn on April 27. Hide Caption 43 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer checks on a man who was injured on April 27. Hide Caption 44 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer is carried to safety after being hit in the head with a rock during the riot on April 27. Hide Caption 45 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer uses pepper spray on rioters on April 27. Hide Caption 46 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police officers push back a protester on April 27. Hide Caption 47 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police react during the riot on April 27. Hide Caption 48 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Baltimore police officers in riot gear look toward protesters near Mondawmin Mall on April 27. Hide Caption 49 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony Batts chases away protesters in a parking lot on April 27. Hide Caption 50 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A woman abandons her car in the middle of an intersection as Baltimore Police officers clash with protesters outside the Mondawmin Mall in Baltimore on April 27. Hide Caption 51 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police handle the protesters during a riot on April 27. Hide Caption 52 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A demonstrator taunts police on April 27. Hide Caption 53 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters stand off with police during a march in honor of Gray in Baltimore on Saturday, April 25. Hide Caption 54 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A protester throws a barricade at a bar near Oriole Park at Camden Yards after a rally on April 25. Hide Caption 55 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters chase after a car as it drives in reverse after the rally on April 25. Hide Caption 56 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A protester breaks a store window after the rally in Baltimore on April 25. Hide Caption 57 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters get into a shoving match with police during a march downtown on April 25. Hide Caption 58 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters and police square off April 25. Hide Caption 59 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters drive through the Camden Yards area on April 25. Hide Caption 60 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Members of the Baltimore Police Department stand guard Thursday, April 23, outside the department's Western District station during a protest. Hide Caption 61 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer films protesters from the steps of the Western District station on April 23. Hide Caption 62 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Empowerment Temple Pastor Jamal Harrison Bryant speaks in front of City Hall in Baltimore on April 23. Hide Caption 63 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators put their fists in the air during a protest outside the Baltimore police's Western District station on Wednesday, April 22. Hide Caption 64 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Hundreds of demonstrators march toward the Western District station on April 22. Hide Caption 65 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People march through the streets of Baltimore on April 22. Hide Caption 66 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators argue with Baltimore officers during the protest on April 22. Hide Caption 67 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A woman is comforted during the protest on April 22. Hide Caption 68 of 68As police handed their investigative files over to the state attorney's officer a day earlier than planned, supporters of the former insurance company lawyer expressed confidence in Mosby's ability to handle the volatile case.'We have much more confidence in her'"We're enthusiastic about the new prosecutor," said William "Billy" Murphy Jr., a former Baltimore judge who is lead attorney for Gray's family. "She comes to the office with a belief in the integrity of these kinds of investigations. We have much more confidence in her than we have in the police because there's never been any level of confidence, nor should there be, in the police investigating themselves."JUST WATCHED Marilyn Mosby's path to prosecutor in Baltimore Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Marilyn Mosby's path to prosecutor in Baltimore 02:49Mosby said last year that while police regularly briefed her office on their findings, her team would conduct its own independent probe into the death."We ask for the public to remain patient and peaceful and to trust the process of the justice system," she said.Mosby is married to Baltimore City Councilman Nick Mosby, who represents areas of West Baltimore where riots erupted in April 2015. The Mosbys have two young daughters."She's a strong woman," Nick Mosby told CNN at the time. "She was built for this. ... I was at church service the other day and they were talking about being at the right place with the right person at the right time. I know her heart has always been convicted to ensure that justice will be served fairly and equally across the board."Cousin's death brought exposure to criminal justice systemDuring her campaign against Gregg Bernstein in 2014, Mosby spoke about the broad-daylight shooting death of her 17-year-old cousin on her front doorstep."I learned very early on that the criminal justice system isn't just the police, the judges and the state's attorney," she said. "It's much more than that. I believe that we are the justice system. We, the members of the community, are the justice system because we are the victims of crimes."Mosby said her cousin's 1994 murder was her introduction to the criminal justice system."Having to go to court and deal with prosecutors," she said. "Having to go to court and see my neighbor who had the courage and audacity to cooperate with the police ... to testify in court and the way the district attorney's office treated my family is something that inspired me."Mosby, who grew up in Boston, is the youngest chief prosecutor of any major American city, according to the state's attorney's website.At age 6, Mosby was accepted into a school desegregation program in Massachusetts. She later participated in a study of the civil rights movement."After having that awesome experience I knew I wanted to be an attorney," she said during her campaign.A. Dwight Pettit, a civil rights attorney and Mosby supporter, said at the time charges were filed against the six officers that he felt Mosby would "deliver on doing it right, and getting it right. I'm confident in that.""She's very dedicated and part of what she campaigned on was bringing integrity to the office, and so I believe that she will move in a methodical way," he said. "And I think that she will follow where the evidence leads. I do not think she will follow just public opinion."Prosecutor said it's time to rebuild trustWhen she was sworn in as chief prosecutor in January 2015, Mosby brought up the lack of trust between the community and police."Our time to repair that trust, to come together collectively as a community to start to break down the barriers to progress in our communities is now," she said.JUST WATCHED Officer cleared in Freddie Gray death Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Officer cleared in Freddie Gray death 00:52Mosby added, "As a black woman who understands just how much the criminal justice system disproportionately affects communities of color, I will seek justice on your behalf."