Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Deja vu all over again. A scandal that won't end. The Boss makes a new friend. It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Police shootingsWe've been here before: Black man, police, fatal shooting, cell phone video, social media outrage. It's happened again, this time in Louisiana and Minnesota. The feds are investigating the death of Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Sterling, who sold CDs and DVDs outside a convenience store, was shot and killed after an encounter with two officers who were on top of him. In Falcon Heights, Minnesota, a woman live-streamed on Facebook after her boyfriend, Philando Castile , was shot dead by police after being pulled over in a traffic stop. State officials are investigating Castile's shooting death.2. Clinton email scandalAttorney General Loretta Lynch isn't pressing charges against Hillary Clinton, so the scandal over Clinton's private email usage while she was secretary of state is over, right? Don't bet on it. Republicans see an opening to Clinton's political weak spot -- trustworthiness and judgment -- and have vowed to hit it . They're hauling FBI Director James Comey before a congressional panel today to explain why he didn't want to prosecute Clinton. House Speaker Paul Ryan says Clinton shouldn't be allowed access to classified material before the election. But you have to wonder: is the GOP already in danger of overplaying its hand, like it did 20 years ago with another big Clinton scandal?3. Bangladesh Eid attackThe attacks never seem to end. Assailants struck again in Bangladesh, this time at a massive Eid gathering. More than 300,000 worshipers were praying when the attackers hit a checkpoint near the event this morning with guns and bombs. Two police officers were killed and at least 14 others were hurt, but apparently none of the worshipers were injured. As of this morning the attackers were surrounded by police in a house. The country has been on edge since last week's terror attack on a Dhaka cafe that left 22 dead.4. Campaign 2016Everyone thought Donald Trump was going to continue to blast Hillary Clinton over her email woes during a rally last night in Cincinnati, Ohio. Oh no, Trump went another route. He inexplicably revived his own controversy over tweeting an image widely criticized as anti-Semitic. He said his staff "shouldn't have" deleted the graphic -- which featured Clinton and a six-pointed star on a bed of money with the words "most corrupt candidate ever." The crowd cheered his words, but many observers are baffled that Trump didn't fully exploit a chance to politically hit Clinton where it hurts.5. Super typhoon NepartakIt's almost a literal perfect storm. Super typhoon Nepartak is going to slam into Taiwan tomorrow with the force equivalent to a Category 5 hurricane. Massive flooding and power outages for more than 3.1 million households are predicted. Troops have been mobilized across the country; and emergency services ramped up. Meteorologists and storm chasers are marveling over Nepartak's size and shape, calling it "near-perfect."BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Eye on the skyA black hole chomping on a star. Sure, we've seen it in the movies, but now astronomers have captured it with an Earth-sized radio telescope network.Killing the radio starCBS is about to spin off its radio biz . CBS Radio owns and operates 117 stations and dates back to 1928.'We Are The Wilsons'Send some congrats to Russell Wilson and Ciara because the NFL QB and R&B singer tied the knot in England. Pics posted yesterday on social media.Today in facepalmUnbearably good reality TVGrizzlies slain and eaten. Cubs rescued and cast away. Riveting battles over fishing territories. That's right, it's time once again for BearcamAND FINALLY ...Dancing with The Boss