Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A plea for unity. A busted plot. A shaky union. It's Wednesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Dallas memorial serviceCome together, don't let anger split the country apart and push for positive change. That was the message yesterday from President Obama and others at the memorial service for the five slain Dallas police officers . Obama said "our righteous anger can be transformed into more justice and more peace." Former President George W. Bush reminded Americans "we are bound by things of the spirit." After the service, the two met privately with the officers' families.2. Baton Rouge plotAfter what happened in Dallas, police departments aren't messing around when it comes to threats. That's why officers in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, moved quickly to arrest three people they think were planning to kill cops . The alleged plot was discovered after a teen was caught burglarizing a pawn shop; he said he and others were there to steal guns and bullets to shoot police officers. Among the arrested: a 13-year-old boy.3. N.C. police video lawIt's now a lot harder to get your hands on police video and audio from dashboard or body cameras if you live in North Carolina. They're no longer public records , thanks to legislation signed by Gov. Pat McCrory. If your voice or image is captured on a recording you can request to look at in writing. If you want a copy, you'll have to go to court. Critics say the law reduces police accountability. McCrory says it balances the public's rights with police's.4. Campaign 2016Finally! That had to be what Hillary Clinton was thinking as ex-rival Bernie Sanders endorsed her . The rally didn't go off without a hitch. There was no chemistry between them, and some Sanders supporters said they'd probably never support her. Meanwhile, Donald Trump has a new foil: Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. She's blasted him in multiple interviews , calling him "a faker." Trump said her "mind is shot" and she should resign.5. Italy train wreckHow did two passenger trains end up on the same track, smashing into each other head-on yesterday in southeast Italy? At least 27 are dead in the horrific crash, which injured more than 50 and left twisted shards of metal over a large area. Italy's prime minister promises a full investigation. A medical official at the scene said the death toll's definitely going to rise.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Case closedMessage from MarsScientists have found sand dunes on Mars that look just like Morse code . But no, little green men aren't trying to tell us something.The distinctive dots and dashes are carved in the sands by Martian winds.Pokemon Go ... awayJoining in on the Pokemon Go craze? Cool. Just don't play at museums. Or cemeteries. Or churches. That's just more than a little inappropriateTaylor's topsPop star Taylor Swift probably doesn't have any "bad blood" with anyone, now that she's nabbed the top spot on Forbes' list of highest-paid celebs.Prime problemsLast year, Amazon Prime Day sucked because they were selling crap. This year the deals were better, you just couldn't get them into your cart.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up laterMeet the new bossNUMBER OF THE DAY121 pointsThat's how high the Dow jumped yesterday, closing at 18,348, a new recordAND FINALLY ...Guide of 'Thrones'You want to be hip and watch "Game of Thrones" like the other cool kids, but don't know how to begin? Let Samuel L. Jackson be your guide.