(CNN) The highest-ranking officer charged in connection with Freddie Gray's death has chosen a trial by judge -- the same judge who acquitted two of his co-defendants.Baltimore police Lt. Brian Rice was one of the three bicycle officers who encountered Gray on April 12, 2015. Shortly thereafter, Gray suffered a fatal spinal cord injury while in police custodySgt. Alicia White was present during one of the stops to check on Gray's condition. She and two other officers saw Gray unresponsive on the floor of the van, and when White spoke to Gray and he did not respond, she allegedly did nothing to help him, prosecutors said. All charges were dropped against White, who had been indicted on charges of involuntary manslaughter, second-degree negligent assault, misconduct in office and reckless endangerment.Sgt. Alicia White was present during one of the stops to check on Gray's condition. She and two other officers saw Gray unresponsive on the floor of the van, and when White spoke to Gray and he did not respond, she allegedly did nothing to help him, prosecutors said. All charges were dropped against White, who had been indicted on charges of involuntary manslaughter, second-degree negligent assault, misconduct in office and reckless endangerment.Garrett Miller was another one of the bike officers involved in Gray's arrest. He placed Gray in a restraining technique known as a "leg lace" before Gray was placed in the van, said Marilyn Mosby, the state's attorney for Baltimore. All charges were dropped against Miller, who had been indicted on charges of second-degree intentional assault, two counts of misconduct in office and reckless endangerment.Garrett Miller was another one of the bike officers involved in Gray's arrest. He placed Gray in a restraining technique known as a "leg lace" before Gray was placed in the van, said Marilyn Mosby, the state's attorney for Baltimore. All charges were dropped against Miller, who had been indicted on charges of second-degree intentional assault, two counts of misconduct in office and reckless endangerment., one of three bike officers involved in the initial police encounter with Gray, was found not guilty of all charges in May. He was accused of second-degree intentional assault, two counts of misconduct in office and reckless endangerment.was the first of the six officers to face a trial. It ended in a mistrial in December, and he had been scheduled to be retried before prosecutors dropped the charges against him. Porter was summoned by the van's driver to check on Gray during stops on the way to a police station. Prosecutors said Porter should have called a medic for Gray sooner than one was eventually called, and they said he also should have ensured that Gray was wearing a seat belt. Porter had been charged with involuntary manslaughter, second-degree assault, reckless endangerment and misconduct in office.Officerdrove the van in which Gray was fatally injured. On June 23, Goodson was found not guilty on all charges, including the most serious count of second-degree depraved-heart murder.Six Baltimore police officers were charged in the April 2015 death of Freddie Gray, who died of a severe spinal-cord injury while in police custody. But there were no convictions in the case. Three of the officers were acquitted before prosecutors dropped the charges against the remaining three in July 2016 . Seen here is, who was part of the bike patrol that arrested Gray. On July 18, 2016, Rice was found not guilty of involuntary manslaughter, reckless endangerment and misconduct in office in connection with Gray's arrest and death.Also Tuesday, Judge Barry Williams denied a motion by Rice's attorneys to dismiss the indictment, paving the way for the trial's opening statements to begin Thursday morning.Rice faces several charges, including:- Involuntary manslaughter- Second-degree reckless assault/reckless endangerment- One count of misconduct in office for allegedly arresting Gray without probable cause- One count of misconduct in office for failing to secure Gray with a seat belt inside a police vehicle.Same judge acquitted Nero, GoodsonJUST WATCHED Officers on trial for Freddie Gray's death Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Officers on trial for Freddie Gray's death 01:59Of the six officers charged, Goodson faced the most serious charges -- including second-degree depraved heart murder. Legal experts have said Goodson's acquittal could set the tone for the four officers still awaiting trial."It does not bode well for prosecution," CNN legal analyst Danny Cevallos said.Williams' verdict in Goodson's case "sends a message to the public and to the courts and the prosecution that if you can't convict beyond a reasonable doubt as to a high charge like murder, what does it say about lesser crimes?"