Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Heartbreak in Baton Rouge. It's Monday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Police officers killedOh no, not again. That was the nation's reaction yesterday as it dealt with yet another nightmare -- police officers ambushed and killed . This time it was in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, where an ex-Marine lured police into a shootout that left two officers and a sheriff's deputy dead. Baton Rouge had already been on edge after the Alton Sterling shooting by police and the killings of five officers in Dallas. The three officers killed yesterday were Montrell Jackson, Brad Garafola and Matthew Gerald.2. TurkeyIt'll be a Monday like no other in Turkey, as the country continues to respond to last week's coup attempt . Twenty-seven men accused of masterminding the plot -- including a four-star general -- are in court this morning, and at least 6,000 members of Turkey's military have been arrested. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is already talking about bringing back the death penalty to deal with those involved. Friday's uprising left at least 290 dead and more than 1,400 injured in one chaotic night of violence.3. FranceCharlie Hebdo. Paris. And now Nice. Three terror attacks in 18 months, and France is absolutely reeling after this latest one. At least 84 people were killed late last week when a man drove a 20-ton truck along a packed promenade, mowing down men, women and children who had gathered to watch fireworks. The killer, Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel , was a petty criminal who French officials say was radicalized very quickly. His former lawyer said Bouhlel "wasn't very intelligent" and "could have been influenced by religion." A total of six people have been arrested so far in the attack, including an Albanian couple yesterday.4. Campaign 2016Donald Trump's about to star in the biggest reality show of his life. The billionaire and former "Apprentice" host gears up for the GOP convention starting today in Cleveland, which culminates with him formally accepting the GOP presidential nomination Thursday night. Trump may be ready for the convention, but is Cleveland ? Fears of violence breaking out are pretty high. Protesters are already marching through the streets; police are nervous -- especially after the recent police killings -- and want the state's open carry gun laws suspended during the convention.5. WeatherHeat dome. Those two words are really all you need to know about the weather forecast this week. A dome of high temperatures and high humidity will cook most of the nation this week (only the Pacific Northwest will escape it). Conditions will be dangerous and potentially deadly, especially in the Midwest, where cities like Kansas City, St. Louis, and Chicago will suffer through heat indexes hovering near 120 degrees.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.'Famous' feudTaylor Swift and Kim K. go at it again, this time over whether Swift pre-OK'd Kayne West's lyrics in his song "Famous."Mars on the micNext time NASA goes to Mars, we'll be able to see and hear what's going on . The new Mars rover, which will land on the red planet in 2021, will have a mic.Pokeman stopPokemon Go players had to stop this weekend, because the game kept crashing . Hackers claim they did it, but the game just launched in 26 new countries.Real-life 'Good Will Hunting?'AND FINALLY ...Perfect pick-me-upAfter yet another difficult week, three minutes of cute babies discovering mirrors is just what the doctor ordered. You're welcome.