If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Burnout is more than just a feeling. It's now an official medical diagnosis .Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.(You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President Trump2. WeatherThis spring's spate of severe weather continued overnight, with two suspected tornadoes barreling through Dayton, Ohio, just 30 minutes apart. The twin twisters caused significant damage and injuries. A third suspected tornado injured several people in a town 90 miles north of Dayton. There were some 27 reports of tornadoes yesterday in Iowa, Minnesota, Illinois, Indiana and Colorado, and much of the Midwest is at risk today for more severe weather.Meanwhile, flooding is the big issue in the Midwest and Plains states, with the swollen Arkansas River hitting Tulsa, Oklahoma , especially hard. In the South, an early heat wave is baking Georgia, South Carolina and parts of Florida, with some triple-digit temperatures expected today and tomorrow. And if that weren't enough, a steady snowfall out West has dusted the Grand Canyon . That's only the eighth time on record there's been snowfall there so late in May.JUST WATCHED Severe storms bring devastating tornadoes to Ohio Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe storms bring devastating tornadoes to Ohio 01:273. Opioid trialA historic trial starts today in Oklahoma. It will be the first major test in the nation of whether a state can make a pharmaceutical company pay for the opioid epidemic. Oklahoma Attorney General Mike Hunter has already won major settlements from two drug companies: $270 million from Purdue Pharma , the maker of OxyContin, and another $85 million from Teva Pharmaceuticals, one of the biggest makers of generic drugs. (The companies settled without admitting any wrongdoing.)Hunter now sets his sights on Johnson & Johnson. He claims the company acts like a drug "kingpin" and created a public nuisance that cost the state billions of dollars and destroyed thousands of lives . Johnson & Johnson and its parent company deny the allegations. This is the first major trial of nearly 2,000 cases around the country in which states, cities and hard-hit municipalities seek to hold opioid makers accountable for an epidemic that's left hundreds of thousands of Americans dead and strapped resources in every state.JUST WATCHED Why are opioids so addictive? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why are opioids so addictive? 00:554. Japan knife attackTwo people were killed and 15 children injured in a stabbing spree in Japan . It's a rare act of public violence in a country deemed one of the safest in the world. A 12-year-old girl and a 39-year-old man were killed in the attack, which took place in a park in a city near Tokyo. It's believed the suspect, who was in his 40s or 50s, stabbed himself in the neck and died. Japan, which strictly regulates weapons, boasts one of the world's lowest homicide rates.JUST WATCHED Two dead in stabbing attack in Japan Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Two dead in stabbing attack in Japan 00:255. Bill BucknerSay the name Bill Buckner, and what do you think of? Probably a baseball rolling under his glove and through his legs. And that's just not fair. Buckner, who died yesterday at age 69 , was an elite hitter, winning a batting title with the Chicago Cubs in 1980 (hitting .324), and he was an All-Star in 1981. He managed to hang around the big leagues for 22 years, an accomplishment in itself. But he'll always be associated with that fielding error in the 1986 World Series that led to the Boston Red Sox losing Game 6 to the New York Mets. Still, he deserves to be remembered for so much moreJUST WATCHED All-Star slugger Bill Buckner dies at 69 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH All-Star slugger Bill Buckner dies at 69 01:38BREAKFAST BROWSEThe Wright brothersIf you go to Scott High School's graduation in Toledo, Ohio, tomorrow you'll be seeing double. The valedictorian and salutatorian are identical twin brothersFor you, dadMeet the man who took three years to visit all 419 US national parks , all in a bid to honor his late father.'Go get ice cream and come back in an hour'When a family needed help for a 2-year-old boy who was having trouble getting around, some Home Depot employees built him a walker on the spotJUST WATCHED Home Depot employees build a walker for little boy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Home Depot employees build a walker for little boy 00:32Tall talesThere are a lot of myths about Mount Everest. What's the biggest one? That it's the tallest mountain in the world.TODAY'S NUMBER11The number of people who have died during the spring climbing season on Mount EverestJUST WATCHED Striking image shows deadly traffic jam atop Everest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Striking image shows deadly traffic jam atop Everest 01:41TODAY'S QUOTE"Buckle up, we're just getting started!"We Build the Wall, a group that says it's A Facebook post shared by, a group that says it's started building its own wall on the US border with Mexico, using millions of dollars donated in a GoFundMe campaignJUST WATCHED What it would take to build Trump's border wall Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What it would take to build Trump's border wall 02:34AND FINALLYGettin' eggy wit it