If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Let's get right to that and what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Theresa MayWell, I tried. That's what UK Prime Minister Theresa May said this morning as she announced her resignation . May had to step down after she repeatedly failed to deliver on her signature policy -- shepherding Britain's exit from the European Union. "I have striven to make the United Kingdom a country that works not just for the privileged few but for everyone, and to honor the result of the referendum," May said in brief remarks. "It is, and will always remain, a matter of deep regret to me that I have not been able to deliver Brexit."She'll stick around 10 Downing Street until her successor is named. Support for May plummeted in her Cabinet after she unveiled her latest Brexit plan, which looked a lot like the other Brexit proposals that UK lawmakers had voted down three times. She tried this week to sweeten the deal by dangling the prospect of a second Brexit referendum, and that was just too much for some senior members of her government. Click here to keep up with the latest on May's resignation.May and her husband, Philip, stand in front of No. 10 Downing Street before delivering her resignation to Queen Elizabeth II.May and her husband, Philip, stand in front of No. 10 Downing Street before delivering her resignation to Queen Elizabeth II.May announces her resignation in an emotional appearance outside No. 10 Downing St. in May 2019. May said she would quit as leader of the Conservative Party but stay on as Prime Minister until a successor is chosen.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo meets with May in London in May 2019.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo meets with May in London in May 2019.May attends a meeting in Brussels in April 2019. After she formally requested a short extension to Brexit, the European Union forced Britain to accept a six-month delay with an option to leave earlier if the UK Parliament can agree on a deal.May speaks to the press in March 2019 as she arrives in Brussels, Belgium, for the first day of an EU summit focused on Brexit.May speaks to the press in March 2019 as she arrives in Brussels, Belgium, for the first day of an EU summit focused on Brexit.May addresses the media after her government defeated a no-confidence vote in the House of Commons in January 2019. Lawmakers voted 325-306 in favor of the government remaining in power, one day after they rejected May's Brexit deal by 230 votes. That Brexit vote was the biggest defeat for any UK government in the modern parliamentary era.After a flurry of resignations from key government ministers in November 2018, May makes a statement on the draft of the Brexit withdrawal agreement. May faces a deep political crisis over her Brexit plan, and it's unclear if she can hold her government together.May stands next to Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn at a Remembrance Day ceremony in London in November 2018. Behind them, from left, are former Prime Ministers Gordon Brown and Tony Blair.May stands next to Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn at a Remembrance Day ceremony in London in November 2018. Behind them, from left, are former Prime Ministers Gordon Brown and Tony Blair.May arrives for a family photo during a European Union summit in Salzburg, Austria, in September 2018.May arrives for a family photo during a European Union summit in Salzburg, Austria, in September 2018.May receives a cough drop from UK finance minister Philip Hammond while having a coughing fit in an address to a Conservative Party conference in Manchester in October 2017. Earlier in the speech, she was interrupted by a prankster, who handed her a P45 form. A P45 is given to UK employees when they leave a company, similar to a pink slip in the United States.May signs a letter to European Council President Donald Tusk in March 2017 to start the formal process of Britain leaving the EU. She is sitting beneath a portrait of Robert Walpole, generally regarded as Britain's first Prime Minister.May signs a letter to European Council President Donald Tusk in March 2017 to start the formal process of Britain leaving the EU. She is sitting beneath a portrait of Robert Walpole, generally regarded as Britain's first Prime Minister.May visits President Donald Trump at the White House in January 2017. She was the first foreign leader to meet with Trump after his inauguration.May visits President Donald Trump at the White House in January 2017. She was the first foreign leader to meet with Trump after his inauguration.May, in the center of the front row, with members of her Cabinet in September 2016.May, in the center of the front row, with members of her Cabinet in September 2016.May walks with her husband, Philip, while they vacationed in the Swiss Alps in August 2016.May walks with her husband, Philip, while they vacationed in the Swiss Alps in August 2016.Queen Elizabeth II welcomes May at Buckingham Palace on the day she became Prime Minister.Queen Elizabeth II welcomes May at Buckingham Palace on the day she became Prime Minister.May addresses at a news conference in London in July 2016. She was on course to succeed Cameron as Prime Minister after her only opponent, Andrea Leadsom, dropped out. Cameron resigned after the UK voted to leave the European Union.May joins then-Conservative Party leader David Cameron during a party conference in Manchester, England, in October 2009. Cameron became Prime Minister the following year, and May was appointed home secretary.May works in her House of Commons office in January 2009.May works in her House of Commons office in January 2009.May and the rest of the shadow Cabinet in November 2003. The shadow Cabinet is the opposition party's senior leadership. May held various posts while in Parliament.May and the rest of the shadow Cabinet in November 2003. The shadow Cabinet is the opposition party's senior leadership. May held various posts while in Parliament.From 1999-2001, May was shadow secretary of state for education and employment.From 1999-2001, May was shadow secretary of state for education and employment.In May 1997, May was elected to Parliament. She had previously been a councillor in the London borough of Merton.In May 1997, May was elected to Parliament. She had previously been a councillor in the London borough of Merton.She married her husband, Philip May, in 1980. He is an investment banker. They met each other as college students. They were introduced at an Oxford Conservative Association dance by Benazir Bhutto, who later became the Prime Minister of Pakistan.May, here in a family childhood photo, was born October 1, 1956, in Eastbourne, England. She was the only child of Hubert and Zaidee Brasier. Her father was an Anglican vicar.May, here in a family childhood photo, was born October 1, 1956, in Eastbourne, England. She was the only child of Hubert and Zaidee Brasier. Her father was an Anglican vicar.Outgoing British Prime Minister Theresa May leaves No. 10 Downing Street to take part in her final Prime Minister Question session on Wednesday, July 24.Outgoing British Prime Minister Theresa May leaves No. 10 Downing Street to take part in her final Prime Minister Question session on Wednesday, July 24.2. President TrumpLooks like "investigating the investigators" has begun. President Trump ordered all US intel agencies to assist Attorney General William Barr in his review of surveillance issues surrounding Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. Trump has long maintained -- without any evidence -- that entities in the US government were "spying" on his campaign. The President and his allies also want to know how the Russia investigation got started. Now, Barr has expanded powers to look into all of that, including the ability to declassify certain documents that would otherwise stay under wraps.JUST WATCHED Trump orders intelligence agencies to assist Barr Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump orders intelligence agencies to assist Barr 02:193. Julian AssangeWikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was hit with 17 charges under the Espionage Act for his role in publishing national defense information received from ex-Army intel analyst Chelsea Manning. It's the most direct move yet by the Trump administration to crack down on unauthorized leaks of classified information. It alarmed free speech advocates, who say it threatens to criminalize legitimate journalistic practices . This isn't the only legal cloud hanging over Assange, who was arrested last month in London after his removal from Ecuador's embassy there. He already faces a federal computer hacking-related conspiracy charge, and prosecutors in Sweden say a rape investigation into him will be re-opened.JUST WATCHED Justice Dept unveils new charges against Wikileaks founder Julian Assange Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Justice Dept unveils new charges against Wikileaks founder Julian Assange 02:224. Mount EverestSo many people are climbing Mount Everest these days that "traffic jams" often develop. And these jams may have contributed to the deaths this week of two mountaineers. Indian climber Anjali Kulkarni, 55, died on her way back from climbing to the summit, and American mountaineer Donald Lynn Cash , 55, died after fainting from high altitude sickness while descending. One climber posted a photo Wednesday of the heavy human traffic on Everest, estimating that about 320 people were in a line waiting to stand on the summit in an area known as the "death zone." More than 200 climbers have died on the peak since 1922. Most bodies are believed to still be buried under glaciers or snow.5. College rankingsThe University of Oklahoma will be listed as unranked in the 2019 edition of US News & World Report's annual Best Colleges rankings because the school submitted false data for 20 years . The school inflated the data on its alumni giving rates, the magazine said. Oklahoma said it discovered the "misreporting of donations" last year and provided updated info to US News immediately. The coveted Best Colleges ranking are largely based on data provided by universities. Many students (and their families) use the rankings to decide where to go to school, though the lists have long been criticized by higher education experts.BREAKFAST BROWSEA clean getawayA man in metro Boston told police someone broke into his home -- and cleaned it up'Trek' trailer"Star Trek" fans are over the moon now that they've gotten a glimpse of Patrick Stewart reprising his iconic role of Jean-Luc Picard in a trailer for a new seriesNot 'Armageddon'An asteroid a mile wide (and with its own moon!) will closely swing by Earth this weekend. But not that close.Digital mood ringCan't wear your feelings on your sleeve? Well, how about your wrist? Amazon is reportedly working on a smart watch that can sense your emotionsTODAY'S NUMBERS$44 millionThe amount of the settlement reached to resolve civil lawsuits against Harvey Weinstein over his alleged sexual misconductJUST WATCHED How 2018 became the year of #MeToo Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How 2018 became the year of #MeToo 04:162.2 billionThe number of fake accounts that Facebook has removed in three monthsJUST WATCHED Facebook VP says 'rules of the internet' are changing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Facebook VP says 'rules of the internet' are changing 01:19TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeYour drone might be sending sensitive information to the government of which country?A. ChinaB. IranC. RussiaD. North KoreaTODAY'S QUOTE"Nothing looks better in your 50s than sunscreen in your 20s."Jennifer Garner, Actress giving some advice to the 2019 graduating class of Denison UniversityJUST WATCHED Jennifer Garner nabs cover of People's 'Beautiful People' issue Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jennifer Garner nabs cover of People's 'Beautiful People' issue 00:55TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Memorial Day weekend heat wave and severe weather threat Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Memorial Day weekend heat wave and severe weather threat 01:40AND FINALLYGearhead graduate