If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Get '5 things' in your inbox(CNN) The attacker in that mass stabbing in Japan has been identified as the country sets about mourning the two victims. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. AbortionThe Supreme Court doesn't seem to be ready to make big changes to Roe v. Wade or anything having to do with abortion law -- yet. The court yesterday decided a provision of Indiana law that says the state may prohibit abortions motivated solely by race, sex or disability should remain blocked. However, the court did allow another part of the law requiring clinics to bury or cremate fetal remains to take effect. The first part of the decision is a win for abortion rights advocates. Still, states are cracking down on abortion access: Missouri by Friday may be the first state to no longer offer abortions since Roe was decided in 1973. The state's health department is expected to block services at the last health center providing abortions, starting June 1.Besides abortions, what does Planned Parenthood do?Besides abortions, what does Planned Parenthood do? 01:10Besides abortions, what does Planned Parenthood do?2. President TrumpJUST WATCHED How Donald Trump is doing Joe Biden a great favor Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Donald Trump is doing Joe Biden a great favor 02:153. Maui hikerJUST WATCHED See rescuer's epic reaction to finding Maui hiker Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See rescuer's epic reaction to finding Maui hiker 01:294. WeatherJUST WATCHED Tornadoes threaten the Plains for the 13th straight day Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tornadoes threaten the Plains for the 13th straight day 01:215. Legionnaires' diseaseNew Jersey health officials are investigating an unusual outbreak involving Legionnaires' disease . There are 22 reported cases of the disease in Union County, with patients becoming ill between March 8 and May 13. Legionnaires' disease is a type of lung infection spread through the air and is usually associated with buildings or structures with complex water systems, like hotels or cruise ships. Interestingly enough, you can't get it from another person -- you have to breathe in water droplets that contain the bacteria.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople have a lot of questions about Ariana Grande's new wax figureNext time you do something really difficult at your job and people don't appreciate it, spare a thought for the person who did this wax figure.Apple wins patent for foldable smartphone screenWe can barely avoid cracking our screens as it is, and soon we're going to fold them ? Good luck.JUST WATCHED Samsung's foldable smartphone is breaking for some early users Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Samsung's foldable smartphone is breaking for some early users 01:23A 100-year-old German woman was elected to her local councilPizza Hut is changing its pan pizzas for the first time in 40 yearsPlease respect our privacy during this difficult timeJUST WATCHED How pizza chains are using tech to battle for customers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How pizza chains are using tech to battle for customers 01:37Partygoers at a Floatopia event in Virginia Beach left 20,000 lbs of trashTODAY'S QUOTE"I have a disproportionate amount of money to share."MacKenzie Bezos, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos' ex-wife, who has , Amazon founder Jeff Bezos' ex-wife, who has pledged half of her nearly $37 billion fortune to charityJUST WATCHED These are some of the world's most expensive divorces Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH These are some of the world's most expensive divorces 01:52TODAY'S NUMBER$19 billionThe amount of disaster aid in a government spending bill that's stalled in the US House . The money is supposed to provide relief to farmers and victims of hurricanes and tornadoes, but the representatives blocking it want a full House vote and more border security money before signing off.JUST WATCHED Cuomo spars with lawmaker who objected to disaster aid Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cuomo spars with lawmaker who objected to disaster aid 02:18AND FINALLYCan't ... stop ... watching ...