If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Get '5 things' in your inbox(CNN) Instagram without the likes ? It's happening for certain users of the social media app starting this week.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. William BarrThere won't be a repeat of the William Barr Show today in the House. The attorney general won't testify before the House Judiciary Committee because he doesn't want to be questioned by its staff attorneys. His appearance yesterday before the Senate Judiciary Committee provided enough drama anyway. Barr was defiant in that setting as he defended his handling of special counsel Robert Mueller's report. And he downplayed Mueller's letter that raised concerns about Barr's four-page summary of the report.The whole thing ticked off Democrats -- both on the committee and on the 2020 campaign trail -- who accused Barr of misleading Congress . Pretty much all the Dems want him to resign. They also accuse Barr of operating more like President Trump's personal attorney than the nation's top law enforcement officer. CNN's Stephen Collinson says with an attorney general like Barr, Trump can just steamroll Congress . Here are nine other takeaways from the hearing.Senator to Barr: You lied to CongressSenator to Barr: You lied to Congress 04:52Senator to Barr: You lied to Congress2. North Carolina school shootingThe shooting at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte might have been even worse, if not for one brave student. Police, school officials and relatives say Riley Howell rushed toward the shooter after he entered a classroom on the last day of classes and started firing. Howell, 21, was fatally shot at point-blank range as he ran at the gunman and knocked him off his feet. Charlotte's police chief said Howell's actions helped police arrest the suspect. He also called Howell a hero. "He had to give his life ... but he saved lives doing so," the chief said. The other student killed in the shooting was 19-year-old Reed Parlier. A memorial service for the victims was held on campus.JUST WATCHED Chris Cuomo pays tribute to hero student in UNCC shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chris Cuomo pays tribute to hero student in UNCC shooting 04:113. VenezuelaWhat happens next in Venezuela after days of unrest? It's not really clear. Opposition leader Juan Guaido, who is also president of the country's National Assembly, had tried earlier this week to oust embattled President Nicolas Maduro from power. But now, Guaido, whom several countries -- including the US -- recognize as the country's interim president, admits he doesn't have enough support from Venezuela's military to make that happen. In response to all this, Maduro called for two "days of action" this weekend, asking elected officials to unite for the nation's good. Meanwhile, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo reiterated that US military action in Venezuela is possible "if that's what's required."JUST WATCHED Guaido admits to not having enough military defectors Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Guaido admits to not having enough military defectors 02:104. College admissions scandalThere may be a new angle in the college admissions scandal. The family of a Chinese student who got into Stanford paid $6.5 million to Rick Singer , a source told CNN. Singer, in case you've forgotten, is the admitted mastermind of the admissions scheme, and he's accused of working with dozens of wealthy parents to unfairly admit their children to top schools. A Morgan Stanley adviser referred the parents of the Chinese student to Singer. The adviser was later fired for not cooperating in an internal investigation into the scandal. It's not clear if the parents were seeking an advantage to get their daughter into Stanford when they paid Singer. The student, her parents and the former Morgan Stanley adviser have not been charged at this point.JUST WATCHED How the college admissions scandal unfolded Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How the college admissions scandal unfolded 04:005. MeaslesMovie fans who saw the new "Avengers" flick at a California theater may have gotten more than just the conclusion of a blockbuster film franchise: They may have also been exposed to measles . Health officials say a woman who went last Thursday to a midnight screening of "Avengers: Endgame" at an AMC theater in Fullerton had recently traveled to a country with widespread measles activity. She was considered infectious between April 23 and yesterday. Everyone in the building when she was there could have been exposed.Meanwhile, St. Lucia has quarantined an entire cruise ship reportedly owned by the Church of Scientology because someone on board might have measles. The ship has been ordered to stay in port, and no one is allowed to get off. Measles cases in the US have surpassed the highest number on record since the disease was declared eliminated in 2000, with most cases in communities with low vaccination rates.JUST WATCHED Mother of measles-stricken baby: Our community failed us Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mother of measles-stricken baby: Our community failed us 02:09BREAKFAST BROWSEBye, 'Big Bang'The end creeps closer for "The Big Bang Theory," which taped its final episode this week.JUST WATCHED 'Big Bang Theory' ending after 12 seasons Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Big Bang Theory' ending after 12 seasons 00:48Generous gestureA hospice patient's last wish was to watch the Battle of Winterfell. But "Game of Thrones" cast members did even better than thatAccent piece?The makers of Crocs are owning up to the shoes' "ugly" rep by adding tiny fanny packs -- yes, fanny packs -- to the heel.Too close for comfortMark your calendars. A big asteroid -- named for the god of death -- will whiz by Earth in 2029 . But don't worry, it'll miss us by about 19,000 miles.The master died 500 years ago todayLeonardo da Vinci packed in a lot during his 67 years. Ever wonder what he was up to when he was your age ? Well, wonder no more.Photos: Walk in the footsteps of Leonardo da Vinci in Italy Artistic journey: Follow in Leonardo da Vinci's footsteps in Florence, Italy. Da Vinci grew up in Tuscany and headed to the beautiful city of Florence to kickstart his career. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Walk in the footsteps of Leonardo da Vinci in Italy Uffizi Gallery: Visitors can see da Vinci's painting "the Annunication" and the restored "Adoration of the Magi" in Florence's Uffizi Gallery. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Walk in the footsteps of Leonardo da Vinci in Italy Special gallery: The Uffizi has a special gallery devoted to da Vinci's work. The Renaissance master's paintings -- including "Adoration of the Magi" -- hang in climate-controlled cases. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Walk in the footsteps of Leonardo da Vinci in Italy Milan calling: In Milan, da Vinci created stunning artwork and filled notebooks full of extensive research into the sciences and engineering. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Walk in the footsteps of Leonardo da Vinci in Italy Portrait of a Musician: Hanging in Milan's Ambrosiana Library is da Vinci's "Portait of a Musician," an oil painting on wood depicting an unnamed musician. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Walk in the footsteps of Leonardo da Vinci in Italy The Last Supper: Also in Milan is one of da Vinci's most famous works -- "The Last Supper" which is located in Santa Maria delle Grazie, Milan. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Walk in the footsteps of Leonardo da Vinci in Italy Santa Maria delle Grazie: Visiting Santa Maria delle grazie, the home of "The Last Supper" is a must when you're visiting Milan. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Walk in the footsteps of Leonardo da Vinci in Italy Glamorous eatery: Milan's Cavoli a Merenda! is a glamorous restaurant with white-washed walls and airy windows located in an 18th century former apartment building. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Walk in the footsteps of Leonardo da Vinci in Italy Château Monfort: Château Monfort is a 5-star, fairytale-and-opera-themed hotel in the middle of Milan. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Walk in the footsteps of Leonardo da Vinci in Italy Rome: Da Vinci also worked for several years in Rome. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Walk in the footsteps of Leonardo da Vinci in Italy Vatican Museums: Visitors to Rome's Vatican Museums can see "Saint Jerome in the Wilderness," an unfinished painting thought to be completed circa 1480. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Walk in the footsteps of Leonardo da Vinci in Italy Roman holiday: Residenza Paolo VI is a Roman boutique hotel that's in an old Augustinian monastery. It's located close to the Vatican City. Hide Caption 12 of 12TODAY'S NUMBERS$30 millionThat's how much Salesforce billionaire Marc Benioff and his wife, Lynne, are donating to research homelessnessJUST WATCHED Can taxing tech help the homeless? Benioff thinks so. Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Can taxing tech help the homeless? Benioff thinks so. 03:0720JUST WATCHED 'Jeopardy!' contestant sets records with aggressive strategy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Jeopardy!' contestant sets records with aggressive strategy 01:14TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Storms, flooding and a possible tropical disturbance Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Storms, flooding and a possible tropical disturbance 01:41AND FINALLYTraffic jam