If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Japan is asking us all a favor. Would we please start saying Prime Minister Abe Shinzo's name correctly? Or is it Shinzo Abe?Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Washington2. BrexitUK Prime Minister Theresa May teased out a "new Brexit deal," which looks a lot like the old Brexit deal, with one significant addition. May dangled the prospect of a second referendum on the UK leaving the EU in an attempt to get skeptical British lawmakers to pass her Withdrawal Agreement Bill. Remember, that's been voted down three times already. It will be voted on again the first week of June, and May hopes adding a second referendum as a sweetener will get it over the finish line. Still, even supporters of a second referendum weren't convinced the process May laid out will play. Don't forget: The UK is supposed to leave the EU by HalloweenJUST WATCHED Why divisions in the UK run much deeper than Brexit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why divisions in the UK run much deeper than Brexit 03:263. WeatherAbout 28 million people are under the threat of severe weather today , as a strong spring storm continues to wreak havoc from the Plains states to the Midwest to the South. There have been at least 130 reports of tornadoes over the past five days. Parts of Oklahoma, Kansas and Missouri are still under flood warnings after getting 3 inches of rain in 24 hours. And severe thunderstorms, large hail and the possibility of tornadoes are expected from Missouri and western Illinois to Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas.JUST WATCHED More storms for the Central Plains Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH More storms for the Central Plains 01:284. Dallas slayingsTwo transgender women have been killed and a third assaulted over the past seven months in Dallas. Police are searching for a possible connection among the incidents. The most recent victim, 22-year-old Muhlaysia Booker, was found over the weekend shot to death. Brittany White, a 29-year-old transgender woman, was shot and killed in October in a vehicle. And a 26-year-old transgender woman was stabbed multiple times in April. She survived and gave police a description of her attacker. Booker had also been assaulted by several men last month after a minor traffic accident; police don't think a suspect in that case is linked to her killing. Dallas police will hold an LGBTQ town hall tomorrow as part of its outreach to the community.JUST WATCHED Transgender woman found dead weeks after public assault Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Transgender woman found dead weeks after public assault 00:575. Climate changeThe news about climate change just seems to be getting worse. The latest bad news: A conclusion that global sea levels are rising much faster than previously estimated, which could put several major coastal cities, including New York and Shanghai, in jeopardy. A new study says the oceans could rise by more than 6 feet -- if emissions continue unchecked -- by the end of the century. If that happens, it would swamp cities and displace as many as 187 million people. The unexpectedly rapid rise in sea levels is due to the accelerating melting of ice sheets in Greenland and Antarctica, the study says.JUST WATCHED Undeniable climate change facts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Undeniable climate change facts 02:24TODAY'S QUOTE"Our son never formed an airway."Erica Goldblatt Hyatt, one of several women , one of several women sharing stories of why they got an abortion , under the hashtag #YouKnowMe. Abortion rights supporters held #StopTheBans rallies yesterday in almost every state as a slew of states debate or approve abortion restrictions.JUST WATCHED Abortion wasn't always taboo in America Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Abortion wasn't always taboo in America 01:36BREAKFAST BROWSERoyal retirementTheir 83-year-old custodian was retiring, so these schoolkids gave him a goodbye ceremony fit for a king.Honors graduateMeet the Kansas teen who is graduating from high school -- and Harvard -- this month.What's old is new againNew Coke is back! (Kids, Google it.) The greatest failed product of the '80s will return for a short time this summer thanks to Netflix's "Stranger Things."JUST WATCHED This is how Coca-Cola comes up with new flavors Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This is how Coca-Cola comes up with new flavors 02:45'When You Believe'New music from the late Whitney Houston might be coming out soon. Yea! But "boo" to plans for a proposed hologram concert tour for the legendary singer.TODAY'S NUMBER$1.5 millionThat's how much a Michigan man will get after he spent almost 46 years in prison for a murder he didn't commitJUST WATCHED Man exonerated after 45 years in prison (2018) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man exonerated after 45 years in prison (2018) 00:50AND FINALLYTraffic jam