Reverend Kenneth Hutcherson is the senior pastor and founder of Antioch Bible Church in Kirkland, Washington. He is also an author of four books, and a former middle linebacker in the National Football League. Hutcherson is a leading voice in the fight to uphold marriage between one man and one woman in Washington state. He blogs at hutchpost.orgOn Wednesday afternoon, Washington's House passed a same-sex marriage bill, 53-43. The state Senate has already passed it, and Gov. Chris Gregoire has promised to sign it. Opponents of the bill are promising to put the issue on the ballot this November.By Rev. Kenneth Hutcherson, Special to CNN(CNN) -- Why do I stand so strong in support of traditional marriage? Because I am a pastor of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I am a shepherd that is supposed to lead, feed and protect the flock. Anything the bible says is good for society, I stand on it and I will not compromise on it. What the bible says is good for society has always proven to be good. Anything the bible says is wrong for society has always proven to be wrong. There have never been any winners in a scenario where society went against what God said would be good.The Israelites were told not to have any idols before God (Leviticus 26:1.) They did and were thrown into captivity under Nebuchadnezzar. Under Cyrus, the great leader of Persian Empire they were under captivity for 70 years because they disobeyed God.When I read about Sodom and Gomorrah, I believe God is saying that the right thing to do is for a man and a woman to be in a relationship without sexual sin and if you stray from that, it is very detrimental to society. Sodom and Gomorrah practiced the rampant sexual sin of homosexuality and because of that God brought judgment on the cities and destroyed them with fire because of the sin of homosexuality acts (Genesis 19:1-29.)Now do I think God brings judgment on a society that encourages homosexuality? I do. And since I am a pastor and God has commanded me to love everyone, I will do what it takes to love them. That does not mean I will accept that they stay the way they are. Unrepentant sin destroys you and will kill you. So if I believe the word of God, that He will bring judgment on a people, then I would be a very bad shepherd not to warn those people.God said in the Book of Romans that the sin of homosexuality is going against your own self. It is unnatural; nothing is natural about homosexuality. When a man desires another man more than a woman, or when a woman desires a woman more than a man, the bible says that is unnatural and God is against it (Romans 1:24-27.) Here I am as a pastor dealing with what God has said. Homosexuality should not be accepted as just another way of life. Indeed, we have gone way past that in our culture and in every aspect, God has stood against this.Every community and country that has allowed this sin to be normalized has suffered. Going against God’s Word is not good for society. Many pastors have had to spend time and money defending themselves against religious discrimination. The normalization of sin in society results in other negative consequences such as the deterioration of the health of marriages and the increase in out-of-wedlock births.Over and over again, the bible has proven the negative consequences to societies that embrace homosexuality as normal. In Canada, same sex marriage has been the law for more than six years. Although a miniscule percent (less than a tenth of one percent) of Canadians have taken advantage of same sex marriage, you cannot speak against homosexuality without being threatened with prosecution for committing a hate crime . Thus the Bible is true. If you don’t stand against sin it will destroy a society.The Bible was proven correct again when Massachusetts passed a same sex marriage law. Catholic Services of Boston shut down because it didn’t want to allow same sex couples to adopt children. The state said you will allow same sex couples to adopt or we will not support you. Because of the pressure, they shut down their adoption program. How many innocent children were negatively affected?A photographer was sued, lost her case and was fined in New Mexico because she did not want to photograph a same sex commitment ceremony.Now the battle to undermine traditional marriage comes to my state. Because Washington state is one of the most liberal states in the country, I fully expect to see the floodgates of religious discrimination open for people of faith here.If I say I love people, the bible calls me to stand on the bible. When I get to heaven I don’t care what a pastor or homosexual or a divorcee says to me. I worry about what my God is going to say to me. The only thing I want to hear is “Well done my good and faithful servant,” (Matthew 25:23.)You stood on my word, you led my sheep, you protected my sheep, and thus you have done a great job.The opinions expressed are solely those of Rev. Kenneth Hutcherson.