Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – Joanna Brooks, a faithful Mormon, believes there's room in her church for loving criticism. For 10 years, she turned away from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. But now she's back, writing and blogging about a religion and people she couldn't love more. Hide Caption 1 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – Brooks, a descendant of Mormon pioneers who struggled, is inspired by her heritage. She attends events like the annual Mormon Battalion Commemoration Day in San Diego to honor those who walked before her. Hide Caption 2 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – Each night at dinner, daughters Ella, left, and Rosa, right, recite prayers for Brooks and her Jewish husband, David Kamper. Sometimes the girls are inspired by their Mormonism; other times by their Judaism. Hide Caption 3 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – Ella, 8, wears her mother's bonnet while sitting in the driver's seat of a covered wagon at a historic site celebrating Mormon contributions to early San Diego history. Hide Caption 4 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – Rosa, 6, opens a large cabinet in the family's garage to reveal stockpiles of food, which could feed the family for up to nine months, Brooks says. The LDS Church recommends food storage in case of disasters. Hide Caption 5 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – Rosa helps out in the kitchen, stirring the ingredients for pancakes. When her daughters are old enough, Brooks says, they will choose the religious path they want to walk. She's not worried about them because "God has a plan for everyone." Hide Caption 6 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – The Book of Mormon and a study guide sit among sections of The New York Times. Brooks is on a mission to humanize her often misunderstood faith and doesn't hold back in responding to editorials she views as unfair. Hide Caption 7 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – Brooks met her husband at a union party for teaching assistants when they were in graduate school. She honors his Judaism, has never asked him to convert, and her acceptance has helped him get over what they call his "Jesus allergy." Hide Caption 8 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – Scattered on the family refrigerator are signs of this household's spirit. Among the magnets are some from the Feminist Mormon Housewives blog, including one that says, "Jesus loves us. Who cares what you think?" Hide Caption 9 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – Brooks and Kamper are professors and department chairs at San Diego State University -- she in English and comparative literature, he in American Indian studies. At night, in their home office, she does her research and blogging. Hide Caption 10 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – With Mitt Romney's presidential bid, curious eyes are trained on Mormonism. Brooks, an Obama supporter and longtime gay rights activist, hopes people emerge from this election cycle more educated about and accepting of others. Hide Caption 11 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – Brooks recently self-published her memoir, "The Book of Mormon Girl: Stories from an American Faith." Writing it allowed her to heal from past hurts she's felt as a Mormon and will someday help her daughters better understand their mother. Hide Caption 12 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – She speaks openly about issues that many in the church wish she'd avoid. But Brooks is committed to being her authentic self. She refuses "to be ashamed of being Mormon" or of holding beliefs that don't mirror expectations. Hide Caption 13 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – Brooks has emerged as an accidental and unofficial voice of Mormonism, all while serving as a full-time faculty member at San Diego State University. Her work ethic and ability to do so much at once don't surprise those who know her. Hide Caption 14 of 16Photos: Photos: Keeping the faith, daring to be different Keeping the faith, daring to be different – As a young activist, Brooks watched her beloved church crack down on -- and even excommunicate -- her intellectual heroes. Today, she trusts that times are changing and that she can speak up without being cast into the wilderness. Hide Caption 15 of 16