Story highlights The Patriots offered fans who bought Hernandez jerseys a chance to trade them inHernandez was charged with murder in June in the killing of a friendWhile the Patriots offer trade-ins, Hernandez jerseys go for big money onlineAt least 1,200 people have given up their jerseys bearing the name of New England Patriots tight end Aaron Hernandez at the team's official shop now that Hernandez has been charged with murder, the team says.About 300 of the shirts that have been turned in as part of a free exchange offer are youth sizes, the Patriots reported Sunday.Hernandez was arrested June 26 and charged with murder in the death of a friend, Odin Lloyd. Prosecutors say Hernandez had a falling-out with Lloyd at a nightclub and planned his execution-style killing in the following days.After prosecutors brought charges against Hernandez, the Patriots offered fans who had purchased Hernandez jerseys the chance to trade them in.Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Former NFL football player Aaron Hernandez attends his murder trial in Fall River, Massachusetts, on Thursday, January 29. The state accused Hernandez of orchestrating the shooting death of semi-pro player Odin Lloyd, the boyfriend of his fiancee's sister, in 2013. Hernandez pleaded not guilty to a charge of first-degree murder, but he was convicted on Wednesday, April 15, and sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez is led into a Boston courtroom to be arraigned in May 2014. Evidence collected in Lloyd's death investigation led to two additional murder charges against Hernandez in a separate case in Boston. In that case, Hernandez is accused of shooting Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado, allegedly over a spilled drink at a nightclub. The double shooting took place in July 2012, almost a year before Lloyd was killed. Hernandez, who pleaded not guilty, will be tried in that case after the Lloyd trial. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez At a news conference in May 2014, Suffolk County District Attorney Dan Conley announces that Hernandez has been indicted for the July 2012 killings of Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez is brought into the Attleboro, Massachusetts, District Court for his arraignment on June 26, 2013. He was charged with first-degree murder in Lloyd's death. Hernandez was released by his NFL team, the New England Patriots, less than two hours after his arrest. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez catches a pass during Super Bowl XLVI on February 5, 2012. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez scores a 12-yard touchdown in the third quarter of Super Bowl XLVI. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez celebrates his Super Bowl touchdown. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez answers questions during Super Bowl Media Day on January 31, 2012. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez scores a touchdown against the Buffalo Bills on January 1, 2012. Hernandez played three seasons with the Patriots, catching 18 touchdowns. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Tattoos on Hernandez's arm are visible during a pregame warmup on December 4, 2011. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez looks up after being tackled during a game in Philadelphia on November 27, 2011. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez carries the ball as the Patriots play the Cincinnati Bengals in Foxborough, Massachusetts, on September 10, 2010. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez, center, reacts during the SEC Championship game between the Florida Gators and the Alabama Crimson Tide on December 6, 2008. Hernandez's Gators went on to win the national title. Hide Caption 13 of 13"We know that children love wearing their Patriots jerseys, but may not understand why parents don't want them wearing their Hernandez jerseys anymore," spokesman Stacey James said in announcing the offer last week. "We hope this opportunity to exchange those jerseys at the Patriots ProShop for another player's jersey will be well received by parents."The exchange applied only to Hernandez jerseys purchased from the Patriots' ProShop and PatriotsProShop.com. Jersey owners had to go to the ProShop in Foxborough, Massachusetts, during store hours to exchange.While the team did not release a figure of how much the exchange program is costing, a regular male jersey costs $99.95, women's jerseys cost $94.95 and youth jerseys cost $69.95, on the ProShop website.It's a different story on eBay, where Hernandez merchandise is fetching big bucks.Official Hernandez jerseys are selling for as much as $1,500 online as former fans try to cash in on the athlete's fall from grace and others try to snatch a bizarre collectible.Authorities have said Hernandez and two other men picked up Lloyd from his Boston apartment on June 17. Surveillance cameras captured their car at an industrial park near Hernandez's home in North Attleborough, Massachusetts. Lloyd's body was found in the industrial park later that day, authorities say.Hernandez, 23, is being held without bail at the Dartmouth House of Corrections in a 7-by-10-foot jail cell. He is allowed outside of his cell for three hours a day, but has no access to television, the Internet or a weight room, Bristol County Sheriff Tom Hodgson said. He also won't be able to marry his fiancee while in jail.