Story highlights Joey Chestnut wins 7th Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest in Coney IslandHis 69 hot dogs and buns consumed breaks the event's previous recordSonya Thomas ekes out another win in the women's competitionThe event was a celebration of Coney Island, which was hit hard by Superstorm SandyThe top dogs ruled the world's most famous hot dog eating contest, once again.Nathan's Famous Hot Dog Eating Contest is always a big event, drawing thousands to Brooklyn's Coney Island to cheer on some of the world's most accomplished competitive eaters. But this year's edition proved extra special for historical, dramatic and sentimental reasons.Making history was Joey "Jaws" Chestnut. The San Jose, California, resident was no stranger to the Coney Island contest before he won his seventh hot dog-eating title Thursday. That's cumulative and consecutive, as he's won each of these events since 2007.But it's how he did it this time -- topping his own record by gobbling 69 frankfurters and buns in 10 minutes -- that proved one for the record books. His 69 downed dogs is the most by anyone since the competition began in 1916, and one ahead of the 68 mark he'd set last July 4 as well as in 2009."Sixty-nine is the magic number," Chestnut told ESPN, which broadcast the event. "Came out here, the crowd pushed me, they would not let me slow down. And it's awesome"Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – People watch fireworks burst behind the Washington Monument on the National Mall in Washington on Thursday, July 4. People across the United States gathered on Thursday to celebrate Independence Day with parades, picnics and fireworks. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – Scott Webb celebrates during the finale of the Boston Pops Fourth of July Concert at the Hatch Shell in Boston. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – Fireworks light up the sky behind the Empire State Building during the 27th annual Macy's Fourth of July fireworks show in New York. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – Meriya Merrill, 3, cranes her neck to take in the Independence Day parade in Edina, Minnesota, as her grandmother holds a flag behind her. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – A woman warms up at the Muscle Beach Independence Day bodybuilding contest in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – A man displays his patriotic pride while posing for a portrait during Fourth of July celebrations in Prescott, Arizona. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – Children play on the South Lawn of the White House on the Fourth of July. President Barack Obama and the first family hosted members of the U.S. armed services and their families to celebrate the 237th anniversary of the counry's independence from the British Empire. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – A re-enactor in colonial attire takes a photograph with his mobile phone before a public reading of the Declaration of Independence in Boston. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – An American flag casts a shadow on the ground as spectators wait for a public reading the Declaration of Independence in Boston. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – Neeley Mathes, 10, stands in front of the judges on Carr Avenue during the costume contest that follows the annual Central Gardens Fourth of July parade in Memphis, Tennessee. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – Emma Winkler, 3, points as she re-enacts George Washington's crossing of the Delaware River while being pulled down Carr Avenue in Memphis with her 11-month-old sister, Elizabeth Winkler. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – Perennial chomping champ Joey Chestnut, center, wins New York's annual Independence Day hot dog eating competition yet again with a total of 69 hot dogs and buns on Thursday at Coney Island in Brooklyn. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – Decked out from head to toe in patriotism, 9-year-old Remi Schaber, left, and her brother Chase, 11, don spandex suits for the Independence Day parade in Cordova, Tennessee. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – People line the streets to watch a Fourth of July parade in Ridgefield Park, New Jersey. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – People participate in the Ridgefield Park parade. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – An observer waves an American flag during the parade in Ridgefield Park. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – A parade participant rides a penny farthing, or high-wheel bicycle, down the street in Ridgefield Park. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – Ed Lunderman, a member of a Living History Musket Detail, fires his weapon to represent "the shot heard around the world" during a Fourth of July ceremony at Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery in San Antonio. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – A child attends a ceremony to reopen the Statue of Liberty to the public in New York on July 4. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Photos: Celebrating the Fourth of July Celebrating the Fourth of July – Members of the Old Guard attend the reopening ceremony of the Statue of Liberty, marking the first day it opened to the public after being shuttered by Superstorm Sandy in October. Hide Caption 20 of 20JUST WATCHED Coney Island then and now Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Coney Island then and now 03:12While there was no doubt Chestnut would win after he pulled away to top his nearest foe by 19 hot dogs, the same couldn't be said for the women's event.Every bite counted as Sonya "The Black Widow" Thomas and Juliet Lee dueled down to the wire. When the clock ran out, the scoreboard had it as a tie -- 36 hot dogs apiece.But the judges tipped the scales in Thomas' favor, ruling that the Alexandria, Virginia, resident had gorged on 36¾ hot dogs. That was ¾ more than Lee, enough to give Thomas her third title despite the fact her final tally was far below the 45 hot dogs she put away last Independence Day.Still, Thomas and Chestnut's championships were significant as much for where they took place, as for what they did.Parts of Coney Island, on Brooklyn's southern coast some 12 miles south of Lower Manhattan, were ravaged eight months ago when Superstorm Sandy rolled through.Scores of businesses and backdrops that tens of thousands associate with summer fun suffered major damage there and in other places, like the Jersey Shore.Yet the hum of amusement park rides and the buzz of the throngs packing to cheer on Chestnut, Thomas and others on Thursday is proof that, for one day at least, Coney Island is back.