Story highlights Eugene Han and Kirstin Davis were on a date when a gunmen went on a rampageHan was shot in the hip and the knee; Davis suffered cuts and scratchesHan and Davis will marry on July 20, one year after the shooting"We wanted to change the date and, you know, make it our own," Hans saysThere is little about the horror that unfolded in a dark Aurora, Colorado, movie theater that Eugene Han and Kirstin Davis can forget.There's the sound of the gunfire, of the screams, of the chaos that followed as accused gunman James Holmes opened fire in a rampage that left 12 people dead and 58 wounded, among them Han and Davis.One year later, the couple are taking back THAT day, replacing the fear they felt with the love they have for one another, when they marry on Saturday -- a year to the day of the shooting rampage ."My thought process was that everyone has a date that they want to get married on that means something special to them," Han said Thursday on CNN's Piers Morgan Live."For us, it was a night of terror and all that. So we wanted to change the date and, you know, make it our own."Surviving THAT nightIt's an ending for the couple that almost wasn't.THAT night, July 20, 2012, Han and Davis were on a date to see the midnight screening of the new Batman movie, "The Dark Knight Rises."The two had known each other for years, having gone to elementary school together.Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The public gets its first glimpse of James Holmes, then 24, the suspect in the Colorado theater shooting during his initial court appearance July 23, 2012. With his hair dyed reddish-orange, Holmes, here with public defender Tamara Brady, showed little emotion. He is accused of opening fire in a movie theater July 20, 2012, in Aurora, Colorado, killing 12 people and wounding 70. Holmes faces 166 counts, almost all alleging murder or attempted murder. He has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. More photos: Mourning the victims of the Colorado theater massacre Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police release the official photo from Holmes' booking after the shooting. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes often had a blank stare during his July 23, 2012, court appearance, seeming to be in a daze. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Victims and their relatives and journalists watch the proceedings in 2012. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Flags fly at half-staff on July 23, 2012, at the Arapahoe County Courthouse in Centennial, Colorado, where the movie theater shooting suspect had his first court appearance. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Arapahoe County District Attorney Carol Chambers talks to reporters July 23, 2012, before heading into the courthouse. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Family members of the victims arrive at the courthouse July 23, 2012, for the suspect's first court appearance. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The Century Aurora 16 multiplex in Aurora becomes a place of horror after a gunman opened fire July 20, 2012, in a crowded theater. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes is accused of opening fire during a midnight screening of the Batman movie "The Dark Knight Rises." Holmes purchased four weapons and more than 6,000 rounds of ammunition, police say. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police investigate outside the Century 16 multiplex July 21, 2012, a day after the mass shooting. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the suspect's car outside the theater. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police escort a sand-filled dump truck containing improvised explosive devices removed from Holmes' booby-trapped apartment on July 21, 2012. Authorities have said they believe the suspect rigged his place before leaving for the movie theater. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police break a window at the suspect's apartment July 20, 2012, in Aurora. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers speak with Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper, center, outside the suspect's apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers prepare to disarm the booby-trapped apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officials tow cars outside Holmes' apartment July 21, 2012. Police disassembled devices and trip wires set up in the apartment. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers prepare to place an explosive device inside the apartment. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Debris flies out a window, right, after law enforcement officers detonate an explosive device inside the apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People mourn the victims during a vigil behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers in Aurora. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman grieves during a vigil for victims behind the theater. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A distraught woman receives counseling from the Rev. Quincy Shannon, left, in front of Gateway High School in Aurora, where the families of the missing met after the shooting. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Lin Gan of Aurora holds back tears as she speaks to reporters about her experience in the Century 16 theater. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People embrace before a vigil for victims behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators work on evidence near the apartment of James Holmes on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Members of the Aurora Police Department SWAT unit walk near the Holmes' apartment. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Television news crews gather in front of the home of Robert and Arlene Holmes, parents of suspect James Holmes, in San Diego on July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A popcorn box lies on the ground outside the Century 16 movie theater. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Adariah Legarreta, 4, is comforted by her grandmother Rita Abeyta near the Century 16 Theater in Aurora. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Jessica Ghawi, an aspiring sportscaster, was one of the victims. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman waits for news outside Gateway High School, a few blocks from the scene of the shooting at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police chief Daniel J. Oates speaks at a press conference near the Century 16 Theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the trash container outside the suspect's apartment in Aurora. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A Federal ATF officer carries protective gear onsite at the home of the shooting suspect. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre President Obama speaks on the shootings at a July 20, 2012, event in Fort Myers, Florida. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Moviegoers are interviewed at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers gather at the theater July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators were a common sight at the theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Authorities gather at the shooting suspect's apartment building in Aurora. Police broke a second-floor window to look for explosives the suspect claimed were in the apartment. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Screaming, panicked moviegoers scrambled to escape from the black-clad gunman, who wore a gas mask and randomly shot as he walked up the theater's steps, witnesses said. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Onlookers gather outside the Century Aurora 16 theater. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman sits on top of her car near the crime scene. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police block access to the Town Center mall after the shooting. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Cell phone video taken by someone at the theater showed scores of people screaming and fleeing the building. Some, like this man, had blood on their clothes. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Witnesses told KUSA the gunman kicked in an emergency exit door and threw a smoke bomb into the darkened theater before opening fire. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre What is believed to be the suspect's car is examined after the shooting. Hide Caption 45 of 45Photos: Photos: Colorado theater reopens for first time after mass shooting Photos: Photos: Colorado theater reopens for first time after mass shooting Colorado theater reopens – The Cinemark Century 16 Theaters reopened on Thursday, January 17, in Aurora, Colorado. It was the first time the theater has been open since the mass shooting on July 20, 2012, that killed 12 people and wounded dozens of others. The exterior facade of the theater has been remodeled since the shooting. Hide Caption 1 of 5 Photos: Photos: Colorado theater reopens for first time after mass shooting Colorado theater reopens – An Aurora police officer stands guard as invited guests make their way into a reopening ceremony and evening of remembrance at the Cinemark Century 16 Theaters on January 17. Hide Caption 2 of 5 Photos: Photos: Colorado theater reopens for first time after mass shooting Colorado theater reopens – Invited guests make their way into a reopening ceremony and evening of remembrance as security patrols the area around the theater on January 17. Hide Caption 3 of 5 Photos: Photos: Colorado theater reopens for first time after mass shooting Colorado theater reopens – Invited guests, including a little boy wearing a hooded Batman sweatshirt, make their way into the theater on January 17. Hide Caption 4 of 5 Photos: Photos: Colorado theater reopens for first time after mass shooting Colorado theater reopens – A couple walk towards the theater on January 17. Hide Caption 5 of 5But now, in this theater, they were a young couple, enjoying one another and the possibilities of their relationship.Then, according to authorities, a heavily-armed Holmes walked through the emergency exit door and into the dark theater."When James Holmes walked in that night, I knew something was going to happen because no one really walks through an exit door -- especially through an exit door," Han said.Maybe it was the warning his parents had given him as a child: Be aware of your surroundings.Maybe it was instinct.But in that moment, when the gunman opened fire, Han dropped from his seat to the floor.When he looked over for Davis, he saw she was still in her seat.He reached up and pulled her down on to ground."So I made sure that James Holmes couldn't get to her. If anything, at least, put my body between her and the shooter," he said.The bullets "went through chairs like butter," hitting Han in the hip and the knee. Davis suffered minor injuries, cuts and scrapes.For months, as Han underwent medical care, Davis was by his side. Their bond, they say, strengthened.Setting the dateThe marriage proposal came months later, in a private moment as the couple vacationed in Texas.Later, Han thought about the year and all that they had endured.Today, Han can run and walk. But he also carries a constant reminder of THAT day -- shrapnel in his hip.As they drove back to Colorado, Han asked Davis if she wanted to get married on THAT day."I kind of scared her at first, and she had to think about it," he said.She, too, thought about all they had gone through. She thought about how he saved her. She thought about how she could have lost him.Her answer: Yes.