Story highlights Vicki Minor's nonprofit provides support to the families of fallen wildland firefightersIt is in the process of helping those who lost loved ones in the Yarnell Hill fireDo you know a hero? Nominations are open for 2013 CNN HeroesNineteen elite firefighters died fighting the Yarnell Hill wildfire last month, and over the past few weeks, there has been an outpouring of support for their families.But what happens when the cards, letters and casserole dishes quit coming?That's where Vicki Minor and her team come in.Minor, a 2008 CNN Hero, created the Wildland Firefighter Foundation to provide emergency funds and long-term assistance to families who often have nowhere else to turn.Minor arrived in Prescott, Arizona, shortly after the tragedy and has already provided financial assistance to 12 of the 19 families. On Tuesday, for example, she mailed a check to a grieving mother in Colorado so that the mother could attend her son's funeral.This kind of rapid response is the foundation's specialty."When a firefighter dies in the line of duty ... their benefits aren't immediately available," said Burk Minor, Vicki's son. "We know the bills keep coming."The group's plan is to eventually connect with all of the families of the Granite Mountain Hotshots and offer them assistance, whether it's for immediate needs such as flights or hotels or for long-term needs such as housing or medical expenses.JUST WATCHED 2008 CNN Hero: Vicki Minor Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2008 CNN Hero: Vicki Minor 01:34Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Nineteen firefighters, part of an elite group called the Hotshots, died while battling a wildfire about 85 miles northwest of Phoenix on Sunday, June 30. Here are the 19 victims: Andrew Ashcraft, 29. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Robert Caldwell, 23. Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Travis Carter, 31. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Dustin DeFord, 24. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Chris MacKenzie, 30. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Eric Marsh, 43. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Grant McKee, 21. Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Sean Misner, 26. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Scott Norris, 28. Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Wade Parker, 22. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – John Percin, 24. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Jesse Steed, 36. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Anthony Rose, 23. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Joe Thurston, 32. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Travis Turbyfill, 27. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – William Warneke, 25. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Clayton Whitted, 28. Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Kevin Woyjeck, 21. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Garret Zuppiger, 27. Hide Caption 19 of 19Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – A hearse carrying the body of Christopher MacKenzie arrives at Los Alamitos Air Field, California, on July 10. MacKenzie was one of the 19 firefighters who lost their lives when they became trapped and their position overrun by flames from the Yarnell Hill Fire, southwest of Prescott on June 30. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – The memorial ramp ceremony in Los Alamitos honors two of the fallen Granite Mountain Hotshot crew members, Kevin Woyjeck and Christopher MacKenzie, on July 10. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – A woman wears a painted "19" in memory of the firefighters during a memorial service in Prescott Valley, July 9. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – An honor guard presents a family member with an American flag during a memorial service in Prescott Valley, Arizona, on Tuesday, July 9. Nineteen members of the Granite Mountain Hotshots died Sunday, June 30, battling the Yarnell Hill wildfire. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Chaplain Bob Ossler, right, hugs people at the Prescott Valley, Arizona, memorial service on July 9, honoring the fallen firefighters of the Yarnell Hill Fire. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Citizens of Prescott, Arizona, welcome home the bodies of the 19 firefighters on Sunday, June 7. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Nineteen white hearses carried the remains of the firefighters on July 7. They were accompanied by police motorcycle outriders on a final journey passing through the crew's hometown. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – A fire truck travels as part of the procession under escort by the Joint Arizona Honor Guard. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – An aerial view shows the procession on the 100-mile trip from the Medical Examiner's office in Phoenix to the firefighters' home base in Prescott on July 7. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Mourners grieve as they welcome home the procession. The firefighters died after deploying emergency shelters as the fast-moving forest fire suddenly changed direction on June 30. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Firefighter Sean Kauffman pays his respects at a makeshift memorial outside the Granite Mountain Interagency Hotshot Crew fire station in Prescott, Arizona, on Thursday, July 4. Kauffman is a former member of the elite firefighting crew. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – A firefighter's helmet from a Texas volunteer department hangs on a fence at a makeshift memorial to the fallen Granite Mountain Hotshots in Prescott on July 4. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Stephen Grady reads some of the notes left at the Granite Mountain Interagency Hotshot Crew fire station in Prescott on Tuesday, July 2. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Family members of victims hug as they arrive at a vigil at Prescott High School on July 2. The elite team members' deaths on Sunday, June 30, marked the deadliest day for U.S. firefighters since the 9/11 attacks. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – People attend a candlelight vigil at Prescott High School on July 2. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – People hold up lights and candles on July 2. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – People gather at a memorial service for the firefighters at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott on Monday, July 1. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Local firefighters embrace on July 1 at a memorial service in Prescott. Hide Caption 18 of 18JUST WATCHED What is a hotshot firefighter? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is a hotshot firefighter? 03:33"They're in a tremendous amount of pain," Vicki Minor said. "It's hard enough to lose one. But when you lose 19 that are tight -- a brotherhood -- it's a domino effect."The men who died were part of an elite team of wildland firefighters known as hotshots -- one of just 109 such crews in the United States. Wildland firefighters are a group, Vicki Minor says, that tends to be scattered throughout the country, and their work often takes them far from home."Our firefighters are nomadic," she said. "Some of them are from New York, some of them are from Idaho. They're not usually in one town, and rarely do they ever die in the town they are (from)."The fact that crews are so often spread out makes her services even more necessary, Minor says. Her group receives private donations, predominantly from other wildland firefighters.The assistance not only helps families get through hard times, it helps them feel that they are still a part of the wildland firefighter community."We do long-term recovery with them," she said. "We keep them connected for as many years as they need to be with us."She hopes to unite the families of the 19 with others who have also lost loved ones, so they can help provide emotional support.These are "people who've really been there, (who) understand ... like no one else can," she said. "They're going to help these families a lot. We've got women and family members who will be supporting these people after everything calms down."For Vicki Minor, who got involved with the wildland firefighter community more than two decades ago, it's a labor of love. Since 1999, her nonprofit has helped thousands of firefighters and their families and raised more than $2 million to assist them.She plans to keep doing the work as long as she can."I will do anything to protect them and help them," she said.