Story highlights Yarnell Hill Fire is 90% contained, up from 80% earlier in the day19 firefighters' deaths were not preventable, Sen. John McCain saysTheir deaths "brought the town together more," a Prescott resident saysA memorial service for the fallen firefighters is set for TuesdayAnother day, another reason to cheer -- after a week of tears.Five days after 19 firefighters died while battling it, the Yarnell Hill Fire northwest of Phoenix, Arizona, was 90% contained, official Twitter and Facebook pages tied to the firefighting effort reported Friday evening.That's an upgrade from the 80% containment from earlier in the day, and well above the 45% mark Thursday.Authorities had announced they'd expected the blaze to fully under control by July 12, though it now seems they are ahead of schedule.Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Nineteen firefighters, part of an elite group called the Hotshots, died while battling a wildfire about 85 miles northwest of Phoenix on Sunday, June 30. Here are the 19 victims: Andrew Ashcraft, 29. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Robert Caldwell, 23. Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Travis Carter, 31. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Dustin DeFord, 24. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Chris MacKenzie, 30. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Eric Marsh, 43. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Grant McKee, 21. Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Sean Misner, 26. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Scott Norris, 28. Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Wade Parker, 22. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – John Percin, 24. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Jesse Steed, 36. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Anthony Rose, 23. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Joe Thurston, 32. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Travis Turbyfill, 27. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – William Warneke, 25. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Clayton Whitted, 28. Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Kevin Woyjeck, 21. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Garret Zuppiger, 27. Hide Caption 19 of 19JUST WATCHED Surviving elite firefighter named Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Surviving elite firefighter named 02:18JUST WATCHED Community grieves for 'Hotshots' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Community grieves for 'Hotshots' 01:50Still, there's a lot of recovery to do -- physically, economically and emotionally.The latter is tied largely to the sudden deaths last Sunday of 19 members of Prescott Fire Department's Granite Mountain Hotshots , in what ended up being the deadliest day for U.S. firefighters since the September 11, 2001, terrorist attack in New York.Officials have said it appears that, after conditions changed rapidly, the 19 lied down under fire shelters -- blankets meant to protect against flames and heat as a last resort against an inferno. But the flames overwhelmed them, and all died."As far as we can tell, that this tragedy was not something that was preventable," Sen. John McCain, an Arizona Republican, said on Friday. "A freak movement of wind shift that took place is the primary cause."They will be remembered Tuesday at a memorial service at Tim's Toyota Center in Prescott Valley that will be attended by, among others, Vice President Joe Biden, according to McCain.JUST WATCHED Mom of fallen firefighter shares grief Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mom of fallen firefighter shares grief 02:02JUST WATCHED Mother: He was my daughter's soul mate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mother: He was my daughter's soul mate 00:57These weren't the only fatalities of firefighters battling wildfires this week.In an unrelated incident Friday morning in California, a firefighter died when a passing car struck him while he was working along Interstate 10 in the Thousand Palms area of Riverside County, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection.Authorities later identified the apparatus engineer/paramedic as 41-year-old Christopher Douglas, a Temecula resident and 8-year veteran of CalFire who is survived by his wife and 2-year-old son.As to the Yarnell Hill Fire, it was sparked June 28 by lightning some 3.5 miles west of Yarnell, according to Inciweb , a federal website that disseminates information from agencies such as the U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management.It eventually scorched at least 8,400 acres. According to the Yarnell Fire District , homes or structures at 129 addresses were lost and many residents were ordered to evacuate.Since it erupted, and particularly since the firefighters' death, many in the area have rallied behind one another.The Arizona Diamondbacks Foundation, the charitable arm of the state's Major League Baseball team, announced that it is donating $200,000 on top of more than $100,000 that its fans donated in a four-day span.Prescott's annual Fourth of July celebration took on special meaning, including a display of 19 solitary, purple fireworks rising into the sky in memory of each man killed.Christina Johnson, a Prescott resident, told CNN affiliate KPHO that she felt it was important to remember the "honorable men (who) died to protect us and our property" -- something she said was important for them, their families and the community at large."Prescott is a wonderful city, full of caring people, and I think it's brought the town together more," she said. "It's unbelievable. It's such a loss."