Story highlights 80-mph wind gusts are "unlikely" but possible, forecaster saysThe Yarnell Hill blaze killed 19 firefighters SundayFour C-130s are bound for Arizona firefighting effortsThe planes can drop massive amounts of water or fire retardantEven the prospect of rain is little help to the crews fighting an Arizona wildfire that killed 19 of their comrades.But firefighters battling the Yarnell Hill blaze did get a boost from the U.S. military, which committed four specially equipped C-130 transports to the effort Tuesday. About 400 ground personnel and 100 incident management staff are working to control the fire, shadowed by the near-total loss of an elite team that was overrun by the spreading blaze Sunday."You have to acknowledge it," Karen Takai, a spokeswoman for the firefighting effort, told reporters Tuesday morning. "You can't push it behind in your head, but acknowledge it, and then they get their head back in the game. They have to focus very hard on the ground, or we'll be in that same circumstance again."And though Tuesday's forecast calls for about a 25% chance of thunderstorms, those squalls could bring gusts of 50 to 80 mph, lightning and only "spotty" rain, National Weather Service forecaster Jim Wallmann told reporters."Although 80 miles per hour is unlikely, the potential there is for stronger winds than what we saw on Sunday afternoon," Wallmann said. Meanwhile, temperatures in the 90s are expected to prevail throughout the week, he said.Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Nineteen firefighters, part of an elite group called the Hotshots, died while battling a wildfire about 85 miles northwest of Phoenix on Sunday, June 30. Here are the 19 victims: Andrew Ashcraft, 29. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Robert Caldwell, 23. Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Travis Carter, 31. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Dustin DeFord, 24. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Chris MacKenzie, 30. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Eric Marsh, 43. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Grant McKee, 21. Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Sean Misner, 26. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Scott Norris, 28. Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Wade Parker, 22. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – John Percin, 24. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Jesse Steed, 36. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Anthony Rose, 23. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Joe Thurston, 32. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Travis Turbyfill, 27. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – William Warneke, 25. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Clayton Whitted, 28. Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Kevin Woyjeck, 21. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Garret Zuppiger, 27. Hide Caption 19 of 19JUST WATCHED Mom of fallen firefighter shares grief Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mom of fallen firefighter shares grief 02:02JUST WATCHED Arizona fire burning out of control Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Arizona fire burning out of control 03:20The fire had scorched about 8,400 acres Tuesday morning and was largely unchanged Tuesday afternoon, incident commander Clay Templin told a public meeting.The region has been suffering from an extreme drought, and the winds whipping through the mountains can blow embers into new patches of parched woodland and mesquite grass, Takai said."That mesquite is extremely oily, and once that starts, an ember gets into those extremely dry fuels, that fire is going to rip," she said. "It's very difficult to control at that degree, especially with the winds that we're having out here."The fire has scorched about 13 square miles of the mountains outside Prescott, 80 miles northwest of Phoenix. It remained completely uncontained Tuesday morning, Takai said.Late Monday afternoon, the Yavapai County Sheriff's Office advised residents in the communities of Peeples Valley and Yarnell to evacuate their dwellings. An estimated 200 homes and other structures have burned in Yarnell.Though firefighters got a break with higher humidity and brief showers Tuesday morning, "The winds are just drying out that fuel right after the rain is hitting the ground," Takai said. "It's a pattern that is very difficult to work with."The C-130 crews now joining the fight will have their work cut out for them in battling what is now considered the deadliest fire in state history.Equipped with the Modular Airborne Fire Fighting System, or MAFFS, the planes, loaded with water or fire retardant, can drop 3,000 gallons in less than five seconds. The retardant covers an area one-quarter of a mile long and 60 feet wide, and the aircraft can land, reload and be airborne again in under 20 minutes."They'll be capable of actually dropping a lot of liquid on that ground in areas where it will be most effective," Takai said.The planes are from Colorado, where crews had been working on fires for the last several days. But they are now considered more vital for Arizona. The military deployment is coming at the request of civilian firefighting authorities.A Defense Department official confirmed the details to CNN but declined to be identified because an announcement has not yet been made.