Story highlights This was the pilot's first time landing a Boeing 777 at the San Francisco airportThe pilot had 43 hours of experience of flying the 777, South Korea saysNTSB: Plane was well below the target air speed for approachPilots called for a "go-around" 1.5 seconds before impact, NTSB says[Breaking news update at 11:33 p.m.](CNN) -- The pilot of the Asiana Airlines plane that crashed in San Francisco on Saturday was making his first landing with a Boeing 777 at San Francisco International Airport, the airline said.But it wasn't his first time flying to San Francisco.The pilot, Lee Kang-gook, had flown from Seoul to the city several times between 1999 and 2004, the airline said.He has also clocked 43 hours flying a Boeing 777.[Previous story, updated at 10:14 p.m. ET]NTSB: Pilots attempted to abort landing 1.5 seconds before impact(CNN) -- The cockpit voice recorder of Asiana Airlines Flight 214 appears to show the pilots tried to abort the landing less than two seconds before the plane crashed on the runway at San Francisco International Airport, the head of the National Transportation Safety Board said Sunday.The plane's voice and flight data recorders show that the flight from South Korea was coming in too slow and too low and that the pilots appear to have increased speed seven seconds before impact, Deborah Hersman said. A stall warning sounded four seconds before the crash, and the crew then made an internal decision "to initiate a go-around 1.5 seconds to impact," she said.The NTSB's preliminary assessment of the plane's cockpit and flight data recorders appear to indicate that the flight went from a routine landing to a disaster in a matter of seconds. But when asked if pilot error was to blame, Hersman said the crash landing was still under investigation."I would discourage anyone from drawing any conclusions at this point," she said, adding that investigators are still working to corroborate the information on the recorders.But what happened inside the cockpit of the Boeing 777 may well be the key factor in Saturday's accident that killed two people, injured 182 and forced the temporary closure of one of the country's largest airports.Amateur video obtained exclusively by CNN on Sunday shows the plane approaching the runway and striking what appears to be a seawall before spinning counterclockwise and coming to a stop. Fred Hayes said he shot the video about a mile from the crash scene.Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – In this handout photo released by the National Transportation Safety Board, Asiana Airlines Flight 214 sits just off the runway at San Francisco International Airport on Sunday, July 7. The Boeing 777 coming from Seoul, South Korea, crashed on landing on Saturday, July 6. Three passengers, all girls, died as a result of the first notable U.S. air crash in four years. Hide Caption 1 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A photo showing the damaged interior of the aircraft was released by the NTSB on July 7. The flight carrying 291 passengers and 16 crew took off from Shanghai and stopped in Seoul before heading to San Francisco. Hide Caption 2 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An investigator photographs part of the landing gear at the crash site in a handout released on July 7. Investigators believe that the pilots were flying too slow and too low as they neared the airport on July 6. Hide Caption 3 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An investigator inspects the broken-off tail of the plane in a handout photo released July 7. The crash killed two people, injured 182 and forced the temporary closure of one of the country's largest airports. Hide Caption 4 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An investigator stands near the tail of the plane in a handout photo released on July 7. The NTSB has ruled out weather as a problem and said that conditions were right for a "visual landing." Hide Caption 5 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Investigators approach the crash in a handout photo released on July 7. Hide Caption 6 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Fire crews attempt to quench the blaze on Saturday, July 6. Hide Caption 7 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Smoke rises from the crash site across the San Francisco Bay on July 6. Hide Caption 8 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Asiana Airlines Flight 214 remains on the runway on July 6. Hide Caption 9 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A plane sits on the runway on July 6 while emergency crews tend to the crash site. Hide Caption 10 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A helicopter flies above the wreckage on July 6 as people observe from across the waters of San Francisco Bay. Hide Caption 11 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Travelers at San Francisco International Airport look at the departures and arrivals board after Asiana Flight 214 crashed on July 6. The airport, located 12 miles south of downtown San Francisco, is California's second busiest, behind Los Angeles International. Hide Caption 12 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Kevin Cheng talks on his phone as he waits in the terminal after Asiana Airlines Flight 214 crash-landed on July 6. He said he was supposed to pick up students who were on board the flight from Seoul. Hide Caption 13 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Passengers wait for the British Airways counter to reopen at San Francisco International Airport on July 6. Hide Caption 14 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Police guard the Reflection Room at the San Francisco airport's international terminal, where passengers from Asiana Airlines Flight 214 were reportedly gathering after the crash landing on July 6. Hide Caption 15 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People are escorted from the Reflection Room at the San Francisco International Airport on July 6. Hide Caption 16 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Traffic backs up on U.S. Route 101 South in San Francisco on July 6. The Bay Area airport was closed to incoming and departing traffic after the crash, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. Hide Caption 17 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People look over the wreckage across a cove in San Francisco Bay on July 6. Hide Caption 18 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Deborah Hersman, chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board, speaks to the press at Reagan National Airport in Arlington, Virginia, before departing for San Francisco with an NTSB crew on July 6 to investigate the crash site. Hide Caption 19 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The San Francisco Giants observe a moment of silence for those killed and hurt in the crash before their baseball game on July 6 against the Los Angeles Dodgers at AT&T Park in San Francisco. Hide Caption 20 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Crews comb the end of a San Francisco airport runway following the crash landing on July 6. Hide Caption 21 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People in Seoul watch a news program reporting about the crash landing on July 6 in San Francisco. Asiana Airlines Flight 214 took off from Seoul earlier Saturday. Hide Caption 22 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The plane crashed on July 6 around 11:30 a.m. (2:30 p.m. ET). Hide Caption 23 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – People walk past the wreckage of the plane's tail on July 6. Hide Caption 24 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The burned-out plane remains on the runway on July 6. Passengers and crew members escaped down the emergency inflatable slides. Hide Caption 25 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Rescue workers tend to the crash site on July 6. Hide Caption 26 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Debris litters the runway on July 6. Hide Caption 27 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Airport shuttles arrive on the scene after the crash landing. Hide Caption 28 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Wreckage from the Boeing 777 lies on the tarmac on July 6. Hide Caption 29 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Crews surround the remains of the plane on July 6. Hide Caption 30 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Investigators pass the detached tail and landing gear of Asiana Airlines Flight 214 on July 6. Hide Caption 31 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An aerial view shows the site of the crash landing between the runways on July 6. Hide Caption 32 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Smoke rises from the crash site on July 6 at the airport in San Francisco. Hide Caption 33 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – Fire crews work at the crash site at San Francisco International Airport on July 6. Hide Caption 34 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The Boeing 777 lies burned on the runway after it crashed landed on July 6. Hide Caption 35 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – An aerial photo of the scene on July 6 shows the extent of the plane's damage. Hide Caption 36 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – The burned-out plane sits surrounded by emergency vehicles on July 6. Hide Caption 37 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – CNN iReporter Amanda Painter took this photo while waiting at the San Francisco airport on July 6. The entire airport has shut down and flights diverted to other airports. Hide Caption 38 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – iReporter Val Vaden captured this photo while waiting in a departure lounge at the San Francisco airport on July 6. Val observed the billowing smoke and emergency responders' rush in. Hide Caption 39 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – iReporter Sven Duenwald was at home on July 6 when he saw smoke rising into the air near the San Francisco International Airport. Hide Caption 40 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – iReporter Timothy Clark was standing on the eighth floor of the Embassy Suites Airport Hotel when he heard a loud crashing sound from outside. "My daughter told me she heard a plane crash. I used my camera to get a clearer view and I could see a dust cloud. Then people running from the plane, then flames," he said. Hide Caption 41 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – A photo provided to CNN by Eunice Bird Rah -- and shot by her father, who was a passenger on the plane -- shows flames and smoke bursting out of many of the aircraft's windows. Hide Caption 42 of 43 Photos: Plane crash-lands in San Francisco Plane crash-lands in San Francisco – David Eun, a passenger on Asiana Airlines Flight 214, posted this image to Path.com along with the message, "I just crash landed at SFO. Tail ripped off. Most everyone seems fine, I'm ok. Surreal..." It was one of the first photographs taken after the crash. Hide Caption 43 of 43JUST WATCHED Details of pilot flying at time of crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Details of pilot flying at time of crash 02:54JUST WATCHED Passengers recount moment of crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Passengers recount moment of crash 03:38JUST WATCHED Passengers describe harrowing crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Passengers describe harrowing crash 01:43JUST WATCHED 'The wheels ... were too low, too soon' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'The wheels ... were too low, too soon' 02:41Some of the answers to what happened may just hinge on what investigators found on the voice and flight data recorders."What we need to do is corroborate the information we have both on the flight data recorder and the cockpit voice recorder," Hersman said."...But I'll tell you some of the things we are seeing on the flight data recorder are mirroring some of the things that are going on on the cockpit voice recorder."For example, she said, the increase of power in the engines appears to correlate with the cockpit crew's internal decision to do a "go-around," a call to abort the landing and try it again.Asiana Flight 214, with 291 passengers and 16 crew members, was at the end of a more than 10-hour direct flight from Seoul, South Korea, when it began its descent.According to the recorders, the flight's approach appeared normal as the 777 descended, and "there is no discussion of aircraft approach" among the crew.The target air speed for the approach of the flight was 137 knots, and the crew can be heard on the cockpit voice recorder acknowledging the speed, Hersman said.But the speed was significantly below 137 knots, and "we are not talking about a few knots," she said.At about four seconds before the plane crash landed, the pilots received an "aural and physical" warning inside the cockpit that the plane was on the verge of an aerodynamic stall, meaning it was about to lose its ability to stay in the air.The warning -- known as a "stick shaker" -- included a verbal warning the plane that was flying too low and a physical warning when the throttle shook.South Korean and NTSB investigators will jointly question Lee Kang-gook, the pilot who was sitting in the captain's seat of Asiana Flight 214, on Monday, Choi Jeong-ho, the head of South Korean's Aviation Policy Bureau, said.Lee had 43 hours of experience flying the B777-200, he said.They will also question Lee Jeong-min, who was sitting in the co-pilot's seat, Choi said.Asiana CEO and President Yoon Young-doo has said there was no engine failure, to his knowledge. South Korean investigators will work alongside U.S. investigators.The NTSB has ruled out weather as a problem and said that conditions were right for a "visual landing."But investigators are looking into whether construction at the airport may have played a role.Construction to extend a runway safety area temporarily shut off the so-called glide slope system, which is one of several options pilots have to help them land planes safely, Hersman said.Internal damage to the plane is "really striking," she said, and officials are thankful there weren't more deaths.Survivors of the crash were being treated Sunday for injuries ranging from paralysis to "severe road rash."In all, 182 people were hospitalized and 123 others walked away from the crash landing. The number who emerged unscathed prompted the city's fire chief to describe it as "nothing short of a miracle."On the runway, medics found the bodies of the two teen girls lying next to burning wreckage. They were identified by Asiana Airlines as Ye Mengyuan and Wang Linjia, both Chinese nationals."We were expecting a lot of burns," said Dr. Margaret Knudson, San Francisco General Hospital's chief of surgery. "But we didn't see them."At San Francisco General, 17 survivors remained hospitalized, six of them in critical condition.Many of the injured said they were sitting toward the rear of the aircraft, said Knudson. Several suffered abdominal injuries and spine fractures, some of which include paralysis and head trauma, she said.Many patients also were treated for "severe road rash," which suggests "that they were dragged," Knudson said.The conditions of victims at other hospitals were not made public Sunday.Survivors and witnesses reported the 7-year-old airliner appeared to be flying too low as it approached the end of a runway near the bay.Airport technology called the Instrument Landing System, or ILS -- which normally would help pilots correctly approach the runway -- was not operating at the time, according to a Federal Aviation Administration bulletin.The ILS integrates with the aircraft's cockpit to trigger an audible warning, consultant and retired 777 pilot Mark Weiss told CNN. "You hear a mechanical voice that says, 'too low, too low, too low.'"The ILS is "nice to have," Weiss said, "but it's not critical on the 777." There are redundant systems aboard the aircraft that would provide similar warnings if the plane was coming in too low, said Weiss, who has landed 777s hundreds of times.The pilot operating the aircraft was a veteran who had been flying for Asiana since 1996, the airline said.Survivors reported hearing no warning from the cockpit before the landing.Passengers scrambled to exit a crash scene that one survivor described as "surreal."When rescuers arrived, they found some passengers coming out of the water, said city fire chief Joanne Hayes-White."There was a fire on the plane, so the assumption might be that they went near the water's edge, which is very shallow, to maybe douse themselves with water," she said.Some jumped out or slid down emergency chutes with luggage in hand.Statistically, 2012 was the safest year in terms of aviation accidents worldwide since 1945, according to the Aviation Safety Network.Data show that there were 23 fatal airliner accidents, which caused 511 deaths, according to ASN stats. That's well below the 10-year annual average of 34 accidents and 773 fatalities.Survival rates have improved due to better staff training and safety advances during the 1980s and 1990s, according to the group.