Story highlights Hotshot team was "an elite unit in every sense of that phrase," Vice President Joe Biden saysThousands attend memorial for 19 fallen members of a "hotshot" Arizona firefighting teamFirefighters died in an Arizona wildfire June 30Unit's lone remaining member recites firefighters' prayer, gets standing ovationThe 19 firefighters killed while battling an Arizona wildfire last month understood what few did, Vice President Joe Biden told thousands who attended their memorial Tuesday.They realized, he told a packed arena in Prescott Valley, that integrity "is measured by whether you respond to the needs of your neighbors.""(Help) came in the form of 20 Granite Mountain Hotshots who rushed toward the flames as everyone else retreated. And in the process, 19 of them gave their lives," Biden said."These men were some of the strongest, most disciplined, tenacious, physically fit men in the world -- an elite unit in every sense of that phrase," Biden said. "... They raced to embrace life just like they raced (to) the fight against ... the raging fire on Yarnell Hill."Biden and other dignitaries -- including Gov. Jan Brewer and the state's U.S. Sens. John McCain and Jeff Flake -- joined relatives and a grieving community for the memorial, which paid tribute to the 19 elite firefighters who were overcome by a raging inferno on June 30.Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – A hearse carrying the body of Christopher MacKenzie arrives at Los Alamitos Air Field, California, on July 10. MacKenzie was one of the 19 firefighters who lost their lives when they became trapped and their position overrun by flames from the Yarnell Hill Fire, southwest of Prescott on June 30. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – The memorial ramp ceremony in Los Alamitos honors two of the fallen Granite Mountain Hotshot crew members, Kevin Woyjeck and Christopher MacKenzie, on July 10. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – A woman wears a painted "19" in memory of the firefighters during a memorial service in Prescott Valley, July 9. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – An honor guard presents a family member with an American flag during a memorial service in Prescott Valley, Arizona, on Tuesday, July 9. Nineteen members of the Granite Mountain Hotshots died Sunday, June 30, battling the Yarnell Hill wildfire. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Chaplain Bob Ossler, right, hugs people at the Prescott Valley, Arizona, memorial service on July 9, honoring the fallen firefighters of the Yarnell Hill Fire. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Citizens of Prescott, Arizona, welcome home the bodies of the 19 firefighters on Sunday, June 7. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Nineteen white hearses carried the remains of the firefighters on July 7. They were accompanied by police motorcycle outriders on a final journey passing through the crew's hometown. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – A fire truck travels as part of the procession under escort by the Joint Arizona Honor Guard. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – An aerial view shows the procession on the 100-mile trip from the Medical Examiner's office in Phoenix to the firefighters' home base in Prescott on July 7. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Mourners grieve as they welcome home the procession. The firefighters died after deploying emergency shelters as the fast-moving forest fire suddenly changed direction on June 30. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Firefighter Sean Kauffman pays his respects at a makeshift memorial outside the Granite Mountain Interagency Hotshot Crew fire station in Prescott, Arizona, on Thursday, July 4. Kauffman is a former member of the elite firefighting crew. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – A firefighter's helmet from a Texas volunteer department hangs on a fence at a makeshift memorial to the fallen Granite Mountain Hotshots in Prescott on July 4. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Stephen Grady reads some of the notes left at the Granite Mountain Interagency Hotshot Crew fire station in Prescott on Tuesday, July 2. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Family members of victims hug as they arrive at a vigil at Prescott High School on July 2. The elite team members' deaths on Sunday, June 30, marked the deadliest day for U.S. firefighters since the 9/11 attacks. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – People attend a candlelight vigil at Prescott High School on July 2. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – People hold up lights and candles on July 2. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – People gather at a memorial service for the firefighters at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott on Monday, July 1. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Local firefighters embrace on July 1 at a memorial service in Prescott. Hide Caption 18 of 18JUST WATCHED Prescott remembers its heroes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Prescott remembers its heroes 01:55JUST WATCHED Family mourns fallen firefighter Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Family mourns fallen firefighter 03:15JUST WATCHED Solemn procession for fallen firefighters Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Solemn procession for fallen firefighters 01:24JUST WATCHED Expert: Shelters useless in Yarnell fire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Expert: Shelters useless in Yarnell fire 02:47The 19 -- members of the Prescott Fire Department's elite Granite Mountain Hotshots wildfire crew -- died while battling the Yarnell Hill fire, which consumed thousands of acres northwest of Phoenix.Officials have said it appears the 19 were forced to lie down under fire shelters, blankets meant to protect against flames and heat, as a last resort after the fire suddenly changed directions.The thousands who filled Tim's Toyota Center west of Prescott gave a standing ovation to the unit's only survivor, Brendan McDonough, as he was introduced. Officials said McDonough was the unit's lookout away from the burn zone, and warned his crewmates by radio that the fire had changed direction.After reciting a firefighters' prayer, McDonough made a simple tribute to his comrades."I miss my brothers," he said, "and we're here to remember them. I love my family ... thank you for supporting me."The speakers were flanked by pictures of the 19. Brewer said they were "heroes, gone at the turn of the wind.""They were protectors, defending our communities, safeguarding our friends, family and strangers alike," she said. "To the Yarnell 19, we will never forget your sacrifice and that of your families."Also speaking was Darrell Willis, the Prescott division fire chief who founded the hotshot group -- one of about 180 elite teams in the country that are called to fight wildfires up close and clear out the brush that otherwise would fuel it.Willis praised his fallen colleagues' courage courage, professionalism and skill, telling the grieving relatives to "take comfort in the fact that I would have followed them blindfolded in the very (spot)" near Yarnell."They brought everything to the table. They gave their all. They were, in my words, right and tight," he said.The 19 firefighters were Andrew Ashcraft, 29; Robert Caldwell, 23; Travis Carter, 31; Dustin Deford, 24; Christopher MacKenzie, 30; Eric Marsh, 43; Grant McKee, 21; Sean Misner, 26; Scott Norris, 28; Wade Parker, 22; John Percin, 24; Anthony Rose, 23; Jesse Steed, 36; Joe Thurston, 32; Travis Turbyfill, 27; William Warneke, 25; Clayton Whitted, 28; Kevin Woyjeck, 21; and Garret Zuppiger, 27.