Story highlights Sgt. Sean Murphy will face a hearing Tuesday, Massachusetts State Police spokesman saidHe was suspended for releasing unauthorized photos of alleged Boston bomber hunt and arrestBoston magazine published images in stark contrast to controversial Rolling Stone coverIn the span of a few days, more than 51,000 people have thrown their support behind a Massachusetts State Police trooper who was temporarily suspended for giving Boston magazine photos of the hunt and capture of one of the Boston bombing suspects.Sgt. Sean Murphy, who was suspended for a day last week for releasing the photos without authorization, will face a closed hearing Tuesday to determine his professional future with the agency, said state police spokesman David Procopio.Boston magazine published what it said were Murphy's images in a story last week . The piece quoted Murphy as saying that he felt the Rolling Stone cover image -- showing a doe-eyed Dzhokhar Tsarnaev with tousled hair -- was an insult to the victims of the April bombings.Boston magazine said it received images that Murphy, a tactical photographer, took of the hunt and capture of the alleged Boston bomber."I hope that the people who see these images will know that this was real. It was as real as it gets," Boston magazine quotes Murphy as saying alongside numerous images, including one of the suspect appearing bloody, looking down, his shirt raised and what looks like a red dot laser trained on his forehead.Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The second of two explosions goes off near the finish line of the Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013. Three people were killed and at least 264 were injured in the double bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos A man comforts a victim at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Runners react near Kenmore Square after the explosions. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Rescue workers tend to the wounded on the scene. First responders tried to save lives and limbs before transporting victims to hospitals. Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On April 16, 2013, a vigil was held at Boston's Garvey Park for 8-year-old bombing victim Martin Richard . The other victims were Krystle Campbell , a 29-year-old restaurant manager from Medford, Massachusetts, and Lingzi Lu , a 23-year-old Chinese national attending graduate school at Boston University. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The city was quiet the day after the tragedy. Here, a young runner, left, sits in a church near the scene of the attack. Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On April 17, 2013, a federal law enforcement source with firsthand knowledge of the investigation told CNN that a lid to a pressure cooker -- thought to have been used in the bombings -- had been found on a roof of a building near the scene. It was one of several pieces of evidence authorities found Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The device also had fragments such as nails, BBs and ball bearings, the FBI said. Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On April 18, 2013, the FBI released photos and video of two suspects in the bombings and asked for the public's help in identifying them. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The FBI later identified the suspects as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev , left, and his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos FBI Suspect No. 2, later said to be Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, is apparently seen in this picture, far left in white cap. The photo was taken by Boston Marathon runner David Green at the scene of the bombings. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The man identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev appears in a tighter crop of Green's photo. Green submitted the photo to the FBI, he told CNN's Piers Morgan in an interview. Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Late on the night of April 18, 2013, police responded to a call that a campus officer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology was shot and killed. Police said a man later reported being carjacked by the brothers. The two were stopped in Watertown, Massachusetts, where police said they threw explosives and shot at the officers. One man, assumed to be Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, drove off. The other, later identified as Tamerlan Tsarnaev, was injured. He died at the hospital. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis speaks to the media on April 19, 2013, and explains that the city is on lockdown until the surviving suspect is found. Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Officers scoured Watertown, Massachusetts, where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was last seen. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Frightened residents were questioned near Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's home in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos SWAT teams conducted door-to-door searches in Watertown while looking for the suspect. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Ruslan Tsarni , uncle of the Tsarnaev brothers, gave an interview April 19, 2013, outside his home in Montgomery Village, Maryland. He urged Tsarnaev to turn himself in. Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos SWAT teams continue to search in Watertown on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On the evening of April 19, 2013, a Watertown resident called the police and reported seeing a man on a boat in his backyard. Residents ran from the area where police said Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was hiding on Franklin Street. Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Helicopters with infrared devices detected a man under the boat tarp. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's frame is seen in this thermal image released by Massachusetts State Police. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Police threw "flash-bangs" -- devices meant to stun people with a loud noise -- and started negotiations with Tsarnaev. He eventually surrendered and was transported to a local hospital in serious condition. Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos People wave U.S. flags in Watertown after it was announced that Tsarnaev had been captured. Hide Caption 23 of 23JUST WATCHED Boston officer suspended over photos Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boston officer suspended over photos 03:27JUST WATCHED McCain: Rolling Stone cover 'stupid' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH McCain: Rolling Stone cover 'stupid' 01:01JUST WATCHED Rolling Stone cover rocks the nation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rolling Stone cover rocks the nation 05:49"This guy is evil," Murphy told Boston magazine. "This is the real Boston bomber. Not someone fluffed and buffed for the cover of Rolling Stone magazine."A day before three commissioned officers will decide if the sergeant will remain on full or restricted duty pending an investigation or suspended with or without pay during a probe, there was very little hair-splitting on "Save Sgt. Murphy" about how people feel."If the powers that be do the right thing, they'll give Sgt. Murphy a medal, a long weekend off with pay, a new camera, and an apology," Richard C. Martin posted on the Facebook page. His comment alone garnered 160 likes."I support Sgt Murphy for standing up for the victims," posted John W. Patterson, "he's a true hero for doing what he thinks is right."But there were a few people who understood why the trooper was in trouble.Darin Vance, a 16-year-old from West Virginia posted, "I hate to see him lose his job, but what he did really was illegal; those pictures were not his, since he took them for his employer. Therefore, legally speaking, he stole the picture, and published it. I guess it depends how his contract was set up, but I think all copyrights would have been given over to the state..."Vance reiterated his support for the trooper to CNN Monday and said that he worried that the Rolling Stone cover might inspire someone to commit an act of terror hoping to land on the cover of a legendary magazine.On Monday CNN reached a woman who said she was the organizer of the page but would only give a first name -- Lisa. She said that she felt compelled to create the page because her own father was a Massachusetts State Police trooper."I thought this page would only be popular among my friends, but I'm getting private messages from people across the country, in Germany and in England, all over, who believe this trooper did the right thing," she said. "I was so angry when I heard that Sgt. Murphy was going to suffer for trying to stand up for victims."Before quoting Murphy in several long passages, Boston magazine wrote: "Here, in his own words, Murphy shares his thoughts on the Rolling Stone cover. He stresses that he is speaking strictly for himself and not as a representative of the Massachusetts State Police."John Wolfson, Boston magazine's editor in chief, said the magazine has hundreds of photos similar to the ones Murphy provided and will publish more in its September issue.He said Murphy was "conflicted on some level" about releasing the photos, but "genuinely worried" about how the Rolling Stone cover will affect the victims' families.The Rolling Stone cover unleashed a wave of intense reaction on social media, which played out in brick-and-mortar stores. Three prominent New England-based businesses -- CVS pharmacies, Stop & Stop, and Tedeschi Food Shops -- heard the public outcry and announced they would not sell the print edition of the magazine. The 7-Eleven corporation said Thursday its nearly 1,700 company stores across the country won't sell the issue.Some have defended the cover , arguing that it draws much needed attention to a young man who seemed an unlikely terrorist and makes us all reconsider our ideas of what a terrorist would look like. Rolling Stone issued a statement saying that the story "falls within the traditions of journalism and Rolling Stone's long-standing commitment to serious and thoughtful coverage...""The fact that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is young, and in the same age group as many of our readers," the statement read, "makes it all the more important for us to examine the complexities of this issue and gain a more complete understanding of how a tragedy like this happens."Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has pleaded not guilty to federal charges in connection with bombings and is awaiting trial. His brother Tamerlan, suspected to have helped carry out the attack, was killed during a gun battle with police.