Story highlights The Patriots are offering other players' jerseys in exchange for hisHowever, on eBay, the jerseys are a hot itemHernandez is charged with murder in connection with the death of his friendThe former tight end is being held without bail in a 7-by-10-foot jail cellThe New England Patriots have cut Aaron Hernandez over murder charges. Now they're offering fans a chance to get rid of his jersey in an unusual trade-in that starts Saturday morning.A week after the former tight end was charged with murder, the Patriots are encouraging parents to swap his No. 81 jersey for that of any other player on the team."We know that children love wearing their Patriots jerseys, but may not understand why parents don't want them wearing their Hernandez jerseys anymore," New England Patriots spokesman Stacey James said in a statement. "We hope this opportunity to exchange those jerseys at the Patriots ProShop for another player's jersey will be well received by parents."Jersey owners must go to the ProShop in Foxborough, Massachusetts, during store hours Saturday and Sunday to exchange. The exchange program applies only for Hernandez jerseys purchased from the Patriots' ProShop and PatriotsProShop.com.Jersey owners must go to the ProShop in Foxborough, Massachusetts, during store hours Saturday and Sunday to exchange.JUST WATCHED New evidence seized in Hernandez case Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New evidence seized in Hernandez case 02:09JUST WATCHED From crime scene to Hernandez's home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH From crime scene to Hernandez's home 02:23JUST WATCHED Aaron Hernandez's troubled past Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Aaron Hernandez's troubled past 02:32While the Patriots try to scrub Hernandez's jerseys from the public eye, it's a different story on eBay, where they are fetching big bucks.Official Hernandez jerseys are selling for as much as $1,500 online as former fans try to cash in on the athlete's fall from grace and others try to snatch a bizarre collectible.Hernandez was arrested June 26. Prosecutors said he had a falling out with his friend Odin Lloyd at a nightclub last month and planned his execution-style killing in the following days.Authorities have said Hernandez and two other men picked up Lloyd from his Boston apartment on June 17. Surveillance cameras captured their car at an industrial park near Hernandez's home in North Attleborough, Massachusetts. Lloyd's body was found in the industrial park later that day, authorities have said.Hernandez, 23, is being held without bail at the Dartmouth House of Corrections in a 7-by-10-foot jail cell.He is allowed outside of his cell for three hours a day, but has no access to television, the Internet or a weight room, Bristol County Sheriff Tom Hodgson said. He also won't be able to marry his fiancee while in jail.