Story highlights The Patriots are offering other players' jerseys in exchange for Hernandez'sThe deal only applies to Hernandez jerseys purchased through the Patriots' official storeHe is charged with murder in connection with the death of Odin LloydThe former tight end is being held without bail in a 7-by-10-foot jail cellThey've already dropped him from the team, but now the New England Patriots are trying to reel in Aaron Hernandez's jerseys this weekend.A week after the former tight end was charged with murder, the Patriots are encouraging parents to swap any No. 81 jersey for that of any other team player."We know that children love wearing their Patriots jerseys, but may not understand why parents don't want them wearing their Hernandez jerseys anymore," New England Patriots spokesman Stacey James said in a statement. "We hope this opportunity to exchange those jerseys at the Patriots ProShop for another player's jersey will be well received by parents."The exchange program applies only for Hernandez jerseys purchased from the Patriots' ProShop and PatriotsProShop.com.JUST WATCHED New evidence seized in Hernandez case Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New evidence seized in Hernandez case 02:09JUST WATCHED From crime scene to Hernandez's home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH From crime scene to Hernandez's home 02:23JUST WATCHED Aaron Hernandez's troubled past Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Aaron Hernandez's troubled past 02:32While the Patriots try to scrub Hernandez's jerseys from the public eye, the same shirts are fetching big bucks on eBay.Official Hernandez jerseys are selling for as much as $1,300 online as former fans try to cash in on the athlete's fall from grace and others try to snatch a bizarre collectible.Hernandez was arrested June 26 and charged with murder. Prosecutors said he had a falling out with his friend Odin Lloyd at a nightclub last month and planned his execution-style killing in the following days.Authorities have said Hernandez and two other men picked up Lloyd from his Boston apartment on June 17. Surveillance cameras captured their car at an industrial park near Hernandez's home in North Attleborough, Massachusetts. Lloyd's body was found in the industrial park later that day, authorities have said.Hernandez, 23, is now being held without bail at the Dartmouth House of Corrections in a 7-by-10-foot jail cell.He is allowed outside of his cell for three hours a day, but has no access to television, the Internet or a weight room, Bristol County Sheriff Tom Hodgson said. He also won't be able to marry his fiancee while in jail.