Story highlights The Justice Department says it has an ongoing civil rights investigationZimmerman's brother: "There is not any inkling of racism"The NAACP is calling for the Justice Department to file a civil rights suitZimmerman could be held liable for Martin's death in a wrongful death suitThis might sound like a legal conundrum:But a court could still hold him accountable for the death.Martin's family so far has only commented that it wants the public to respect the Florida court's verdict.Two options, however, are available: A civil suit, or a civil rights suit. Though they sound similar, they are very different.A civil suit allows one party to seek monetary damages against another for causing physical or emotional harm, regardless of the outcome of a criminal trial.A civil rights suit involves criminal charges for violating someone's civil rights, which are protected under federal law.JUST WATCHED George Zimmerman found not guilty Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH George Zimmerman found not guilty 01:00JUST WATCHED Martin's parents react to verdict Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Martin's parents react to verdict 01:09JUST WATCHED Zimmerman's brother reacts to verdict Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Zimmerman's brother reacts to verdict 02:53JUST WATCHED Defense: Zimmerman did nothing wrong Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Defense: Zimmerman did nothing wrong 01:18Civil suitTake what happened to O.J. Simpson 17 years ago.After a criminal court acquitted him of charges in the 1994 killing of his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson, a civil court held him responsible in 1997 for her "wrongful death."It ordered him to pay her family more than $33 million in damages. Various courts then stripped Simpson of every asset they could get their hands on.Wrongful death is easier to prove than murder or manslaughter.A defendant can be held liable, even if he or she didn't intend to cause the victim's death, according to Florida lawSimple negligence is enough, if it results in death.Did Zimmerman act negligently, when he exited his vehicle to pursue Martin on foot while carrying a gun -- although a 911 operator told him not to?Would the 17-year-old still be alive if Zimmerman had not done so?Those are questions a lawyer for Martin's family would be sure to ask in a wrongful death suit.Martin's family has so given no indication so far of wanting to pursue an additional suit.But someone else has.Civil rights suitThe NAACP is pushing the U.S. Department of Justice to file a civil rights suit.They accuse Zimmerman of racial profiling that led to Martin's death -- an allegation that Zimmerman, his family and his supporters have denied."The most fundamental of civil rights -- the right to life -- was violated the night George Zimmerman stalked and then took the life of Trayvon Martin," the group said.JUST WATCHED 'Outrage' over Zimmerman verdict Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Outrage' over Zimmerman verdict 00:49Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Sybrina Fulton, mother of Trayvon Martin, is joined by her son Jahvaris Fulton as she speaks to the crowd during a rally in New York City, Saturday, July 20. A jury in Florida acquitted Zimmerman of all charges related to the shooting death of Trayvon Martin. View photos of key moments from the trial. Hide Caption 1 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Protesters attend a rally in support of Trayvon Martin, in New York on July 20. The Rev. Al Sharpton's National Action Network organized the "'Justice for Trayvon' 100 city vigil" which called supporters to gather in front of federal buildings around the country on July 20, as a continued protest against the George Zimmerman verdict. Hide Caption 2 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – The Rev. Al Sharpton speaks to the crowd during the rally in New York City on July 20. Hide Caption 3 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Beyoncé, left, and Jay-Z, center, arrive at the rally in New York City on July 20. Hide Caption 4 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Thousands of people gathered outside the Richard B. Russell Federal Building in downtown Atlanta as part of the network of vigils on July 20. Hide Caption 5 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – A chalk outline, a bag of Skittles, and a can of iced tea are seen during the vigil outside the E. Barrett Prettyman Federal Courthouse in Washington, D.C., on July 20. Hide Caption 6 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Protesters march across the Brooklyn Bridge toward Brooklyn after attending the rally in Manhattan on July 20. Hide Caption 7 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Tracy Martin, father of Trayvon Martin, poses for a photo with supporters wearing hoodies at the rally in Miami on July 20. Hide Caption 8 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Protesters march through the streets of downtown Los Angeles, on Tuesday, July 16, during a demonstration of the George Zimmerman trial. Hide Caption 9 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – The Rev. Al Sharpton calls for a full federal investigation of the Martin killing, saying mere remarks by President Barack Obama and others weren't enough, outside the U.S. Justice Department in Washington on July 16. Hide Caption 10 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – A passenger takes a picture of protesters as he rides a city bus on July 16 in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 11 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Protesters confront police officers on Monday, July 15, in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 12 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Leon McCutchin participates in a candlelight vigil for Martin on July 15 in New York City. Hide Caption 13 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – A large group of demonstrators march through downtown Atlanta on July 15 during a protest of the acquittal of George Zimmerman. Hide Caption 14 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Outside the Department of Justice in Washington on July 15, Rev. Anthony Evans, president of the National Black Church Initiative, leads a prayer during a demonstration asking for justice for Trayvon Martin. Hide Caption 15 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Residents of Sanford, Florida, attend a prayer vigil to promote peace and unity in their city in the wake of the George Zimmerman trial on July 15. Hide Caption 16 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – About 500 demonstrators gather during a rally and march in support of Trayvon Martin on July 15 in Birmingham, Alabama. Hide Caption 17 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – A man argues with a police officer as supporters of Trayvon Martin march while blocking traffic in Union Square in New York on Sunday, July 14. Hide Caption 18 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – A man throws a trashcan during a protest in Oakland, California, on July 14. Hide Caption 19 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – People gather at a rally honoring Trayvon Martin at Union Square in New York on July 14. Hide Caption 20 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Demonstrators march following a rally at the Torch of Freedom in downtown Miami on July 14. Hide Caption 21 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Police hold positions on I-10 in Los Angeles. Protesters walked onto the freeway, stopping traffic, on July 14. Hide Caption 22 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – A protester shouts in the streets of New York on July 13. Hide Caption 23 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – A man in Los Angeles wears a shirt in support of Trayvon Martin on July 13. Hide Caption 24 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Tanetta Foster cries in front of the courthouse on July 13 after hearing the verdict. Hide Caption 25 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – A Trayvon Martin supporter rallies outside the courthouse on July 13. After Martin's death, protesters started wearing hoodies in solidarity against racial profiling. Hide Caption 26 of 27 Photos: Photos: Reaction to Zimmerman verdict Reaction to Zimmerman verdict – Demonstrators and members of the media gather outside of the courthouse on July 13. The jurors deliberated for more than 16 hours before delivering their verdict. Hide Caption 27 of 27NAACP President Benjamin Jealous told CNN's "State of the Union" on Sunday that remarks made by Zimmerman and people who live in his Sanford, Florida, neighborhood had sparked the group's concern."When you look at (Zimmerman's) comments, and when you look at comments made by young black men who lived in that neighborhood about how they felt especially targeted by him, there is reason to be concerned that race was a factor in why he targeted young Trayvon," Jealous said.The NAACP leader's allegations drew sharp criticism Sunday from Robert Zimmerman Jr., who argued that FBI interviews have already shown that his brother isn't racist."I don't think (Jealous) does anything for civil rights by perpetuating a narrative that has now been proven false. ... They've investigated I think about three dozen of his closest friends and acquaintances. And there is not any inkling of racism. In fact, there's evidence to show the opposite," he said. "I would encourage them to cool their jets, give everyone some time to kind of process what's going on. Agitation doesn't help us. It doesn't do anybody any good right now."The Rev. Jesse Jackson told CNN's "New Day" on Sunday that his Rainbow PUSH Coalition also wants the Justice Department to look into possible civil rights violations in the case."There's a Trayvon in every town," he said. "That's why the Department of Justice has a role to play, to look at this pattern, because equal protection under the law remains elusive."The Justice Department did not respond directly to the NAACP demand. It has a separate federal investigation going on."Experienced federal prosecutors will determine whether the evidence reveals a prosecutable violation of any of the limited federal criminal civil rights statutes within our jurisdiction, and whether federal prosecution is appropriate in accordance with the department's policy governing successive federal prosecution following a state trial," it said in a Sunday statement.It's a legal path that worked in the case of Rodney King, whom Los Angeles police officers clubbed down in 1991 after a car chase.The beating of the African-American man was caught on video and later aired on news broadcasts.When a criminal court failed to convict the white officers of police brutality, riots ensued in Los Angeles over alleged racial discrimination.The Justice Department filed a civil rights suit against the officers, alleging racial profiling, and two were convicted in 1993 as a result.A court sentenced them to 30 months in federal prison.