Story highlights Vice President Joe Biden to attend memorial service Tuesday, senior administration official saysThe medical examiner's office issues causes and manners of deathWorkers were putting in 13- or 14-hour shifts to fight the Yarnell Hill fireThe temperature should cool, and winds should calm somewhat this weekCrews battling the Arizona wildfire that killed 19 firefighters made significant progress Thursday, moving within sight of fully corralling the blaze, authorities announced.Despite still gusty winds and temperatures in the 90s, the Yarnell Hill Fire near Prescott was 80% contained as of Thursday evening, according to Inciweb, a federal website that disseminates information from agencies like the U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management. That's a significant upgrade from earlier in the day, when it was 45% contained."Praise the Lord!" wrote one person on an official Facebook page dedicated to the fire.The Yavapai County Sheriff's Department has lifted an evacuation order for residents of Peeples Valley, according to Inciweb. Those in the community of Yarnell, which is about 75 miles northwest of Phoenix, still face a mandatory evacuation order.On average, workers are putting in 13- or 14-hour shifts but are able to sleep, shower and eat when they need to, U.S. Forest Service spokeswoman Suzanne Flory had said. "We're very safety conscious and we're very careful about not overstressing or overworking anybody and making sure they get that rest that they need."Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Nineteen firefighters, part of an elite group called the Hotshots, died while battling a wildfire about 85 miles northwest of Phoenix on Sunday, June 30. Here are the 19 victims: Andrew Ashcraft, 29. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Robert Caldwell, 23. Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Travis Carter, 31. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Dustin DeFord, 24. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Chris MacKenzie, 30. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Eric Marsh, 43. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Grant McKee, 21. Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Sean Misner, 26. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Scott Norris, 28. Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Wade Parker, 22. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – John Percin, 24. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Jesse Steed, 36. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Anthony Rose, 23. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Joe Thurston, 32. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Travis Turbyfill, 27. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – William Warneke, 25. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Clayton Whitted, 28. Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Kevin Woyjeck, 21. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Garret Zuppiger, 27. Hide Caption 19 of 19JUST WATCHED Surviving elite firefighter named Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Surviving elite firefighter named 02:18JUST WATCHED Community grieves for 'Hotshots' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Community grieves for 'Hotshots' 01:50JUST WATCHED Mom of fallen firefighter shares grief Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mom of fallen firefighter shares grief 02:02JUST WATCHED Mother: He was my daughter's soul mate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mother: He was my daughter's soul mate 00:57There are four helicopters battling the blaze, she told reporters.Temperatures reached into the 90s on Thursday, with winds gusting in excess of 20 mph. It should get a little cooler in the coming days, with the thermostat peaking in the 80s and winds expected to be a little calmer.There's also a chance of showers and thunderstorms for the coming week, at least.Rain would be welcome in many ways, though thunderstorms also bring the possibility of lightning that could spark more fires. And wet conditions could also hamper efforts because people could get stuck in mud, explained National Weather Service meteorologist Jim Wallman.The Maricopa County medical examiner's office performed autopsies and said Thursday that the causes of death for all 19 were "fire-related injuries." The manners of death were described for each as an "accident."Plans to remember the 19 firefighters include a memorial service scheduled for Tuesday. Vice President Joe Biden will attend the service in Arizona, a senior administration official told CNN on Friday.On Wednesday nearly 600 firefighters and support workers assigned to the fire took a brief break from their hard work to observe a moment of silence in honor of the 19 members of the Granite Mountain Hotshots , who died Sunday when the fire took a sudden, unexpected turn.The pause coincided with the movement of a convoy of vehicles driven to the fire by the Granite Mountain team. The vehicles are being returned to Prescott, where they were based.To start Wednesday's moment of silence, a loud alert tone sounded on firefighters' radios and an unidentified fire team commander announced, "As the crew carriers for the Granite Mountain hot shots leaves the Yarnell Hills fire and begin their journey home, all personnel in the incident will observe an operational pause, in observance of our fallen comrades."