Story highlights Body of unidentified child -- named Baby Hope by police -- was found on July 23, 1991Detectives continue to investigate, and ask that anyone with information come forwardThere are many reasons people may talk years later, says Detective Robert Dewhurst"Twenty years is not uncommon for a cold case," Dewhurst saysTwenty-two years after a gruesome and heartbreaking discovery, the New York Police Department continues to search for leads on a cold case.On July 23, 1991, the body of an unidentified little girl --named "Baby Hope" by detectives -- was found in a blue and white picnic cooler in a wooded area near the Henry Hudson Parkway in New York City.The girl, believed to be 3 to 5 years old, was smothered and sexually molested. Her body was so badly decomposed that several sketches were made to suggest what she looked like.Police could not track down anyone who might have known the girl. She was never reported missing.On Tuesday, the anniversary of the discovery, authorities went to a neighborhood near where the body was found in hopes of finding new leads.Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Michaela Joy Garecht – Witnesses saw a man grab 9-year-old Michaela Joy Garecht outside a store near her home near Oakland, California, in November 1988. Here, Michaela is seen in a childhood photo next to an image of what she might look like today. If you have seen Michaela or any of the faces in this gallery, please contact your local FBI office or call 1-800-THE-LOST. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Ashley Summers – The discovery of the three young women missing for a decade in Cleveland immediately raised hopes for Ashley Summers, who went missing in July 2007 at age 14 within blocks of the other three. Here, she is shown next to an age-progressed rendering of her on the right. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Christina Adkins – Christina Adkins was last seen in Cleveland in January 1995. She was 18 years old and five months pregnant when she disappeared. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Jessica Heeringa – Jessica Heeringa, 25, was abducted in April from an Exxon station in Norton Shores, Michigan, where she was working alone, sometime around 11 p.m., police said. Police have released a sketch of the suspect, described as a white male, about 6 feet tall, between 30 and 40 years old, with wavy hair parted in the middle. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Madeleine McCann – Madeleine McCann was a few days shy of her 4th birthday when she disappeared during a 2007 family vacation in Portugal. Despite a huge police investigation and massive media coverage, she remains missing. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Haleigh Cummings – Haleigh Cummings, 5, was reported missing from her family's home in Satsuma, Florida, in February 2009. The National Center for Missing & Exploited Children released the age-progressed photo to show what she might look like at age 8. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Amir Jennings – Eighteen-month-old Amir Jennings was last seen with his mother in Columbia, South Carolina, in November 2011. Both were reported missing by a family member in early December 2011. Amir's mother was located a few weeks later after she was involved in a car accident. Amir was not in the car. Amir's mother has been convicted of being involved in the toddler's disappearance, but the boy has yet to be found. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Morgan Nick – Six-year-old Morgan Nick went missing in June 1995 after playing with other children after a Little League game in Alma, Arkansas. Police believe Morgan was abducted by a stranger. Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Kara Kopetsky – When high school junior Kara Kopetsky didn't come home from school one day in May 2007, her parents filed a missing person report. Police in Belton, Missouri, told them they believed she was a runaway and would return in a few days. Shortly before she vanished, she told her parents her former boyfriend was stalking her. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Kyron Horman – Seven-year-old Kyron Horman was last seen in June 2010 at his Portland, Oregon, elementary school after attending a science fair. While there has been intense speculation surrounding the boy's stepmother, who told police she dropped him off, no charges have been filed in the case and no one has officially been named a suspect. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Lisa Irwin – Lisa Irwin's father arrived at their Kansas City home from work to find the door unlocked, the lights on and a window tampered with. Lisa's mother said she last saw the 11-month-old the evening before. Dozens of investigators, including police and FBI personnel, have conducted numerous searches for the missing girl but have come up empty. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Isabel Celis – Six-year-old Isabel Celis's parents reported her missing in April 2012, telling Tucson, Arizona, police that she vanished from her room in the middle of the night. There are no suspects in her disappearance. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Jacob Wetterling – Jacob Wetterling was abducted at gunpoint in October 1989 at age 11 near his home in St. Joseph, Minnesota, near St. Cloud. His mother, holding a photo of her son, remains hopeful that he will be found alive. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: The faces of some of America's missing Still missing: Christopher Abeyta – Christopher Abeyta was only 7 months old when he was taken from his crib in 1986. This year, his family announced a $100,000 reward for help in finding Christopher, who would be 27 today and may look like the image rendering on the right. Hide Caption 14 of 14They handed out flyers in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan, "making an amplified request for anyone with information in regards to this incident" to come forward, according to a NYPD press release."Several detectives are still on this case," Detective Robert Dewhurst told CNN Tuesday, "we're trying to solicit the public for new information. Maybe someone can provide identification."People with information may speak many years later for many reasons, such as feeling safer after moving to a new area where they don't see the person responsible every day. Sometimes people "want to get it off their chest," said Dewhurst, who is part of the Cold Case Apprehension Squad.For months after Baby Hope's body was found, police went back to the site hoping whoever was responsible, driven by guilt, had left some type of memorial that would have helped police.Two years after she was found murdered, Baby Hope was laid to rest in a donated plot, thanks mainly to detectives who worked on the case. She was buried in a white dress bought by a detective's wife.Despite the years this case has remained opened, Dewhurst said he is not frustrated."This is what my squad does," he said. "Twenty years is not uncommon for a cold case."I have hope. Otherwise I wouldn't be doing this."Anyone with information can call the NYPD tip line at 1-800-577-8477.