If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.No, it's not your imagination that "Bohemian Rhapsody" seems to be stuck in your head. After all, it's the most-streamed song from the 20th century.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. PoliticsWell, that escalated quickly, didn't it? America got a taste of what divided government might look like in the Trump era when the President clashed with Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer in front of TV cameras in the Oval Office. The three fought over Trump's signature 2016 campaign promise -- the border wall . (Vice President Mike Pence was there, too, but he was more like the " Elf on the Shelf .") Trump wants $5 billion to fund construction of the wall. Pelosi and Schumer, the top House and Senate Democrats, told him the votes aren't there to secure that level of funding.OK, said the President, who seemed to revel in the reality TV-like meeting . He said he'll shut the government down and be "proud" to do it over border security. A cascade of insults and interruptions followed. So, is there any chance of compromise in this funding dispute before the December 21 deadline? It seems unlikely right now, but Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said he's hoping for a Christmas miracle (aren't we all). Just can't get enough of this epic clash? Here it is in GIFs2. FranceA huge manhunt is underway in France for a gunman who killed three people and injured 13 at a Christmas market in the city of Strasbourg. Authorities have secured the border and put a perimeter around the city. Hundreds of police and soldiers are involved in the search. In the shooting, the suspect entered the market area and started firing at passers-by who were shopping. The gunman then exchanged fire with police before hopping in a taxi and escaping. It's believed the suspect was injured in the gunfire. France's deputy interior minister wouldn't confirm reports that the suspect has "terrorist motivations," but the Paris prosecutor's anti-terror division is in charge of the investigation.JUST WATCHED Strasbourg gunman was on French watch list Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Strasbourg gunman was on French watch list 01:263. Charlottesville murder trialJUST WATCHED Driver convicted in Charlottesville attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Driver convicted in Charlottesville attack 02:304. Baylor sex assault caseThere's outrage in Texas over a plea deal that will let a former Baylor University student, who was indicted on four counts of sexual assault, avoid prison . Jacob Walter Anderson pleaded no contest to a lesser charge of unlawful restraint. Anderson was accused of attacking a woman during a 2016 fraternity party, where the victim said she was raped, choked and left for dead. The plea agreement left her infuriated, and her attorney said he'd never seen "a sweetheart deal" like this. If Anderson completes probation, pays a fine and completes an alcohol and drug treatment plan, his criminal record will be wiped clean. He also won't have to register as a sex offender.JUST WATCHED No prison for ex-fraternity president over sex charges Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH No prison for ex-fraternity president over sex charges 01:545. Arctic warmingWe all know the Arctic is getting warmer. But just how warm? A new report says the polar area is going through a multi-year stretch of unparalleled warmth "unlike any period on record." Reductions in sea ice and losses in wildlife populations there are the result of climate change caused by humans, the peer-reviewed report from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says. And the warming of the Arctic affects a lot more than the ice caps. The report says less sea ice has changed the weather in the US and Europe because ice influences ocean currents and the jet stream. The report blames the severity of the nor'easters that hit the eastern US this year and the massive March cold snap that plagued Europe on a warming Arctic.JUST WATCHED Report: Arctic warmth 'unlike any period' ever Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Report: Arctic warmth 'unlike any period' ever 02:20BREAKFAST BROWSEFly me to the moon (lab)NBA star Steph Curry doesn't believe mankind's been to the moon . NASA says: Hey, we've got this lab full of moon rocks to show you.JUST WATCHED Stephen Curry in 80 seconds Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Stephen Curry in 80 seconds 01:18Best friends foreverAfter his best friend died this year, a sweet 12-year-old boy from Michigan raised $2,500 to pay for his headstone'Dreaming of You'Selena fans, get ready to binge. Netflix says it's working on a new series based on the life of the beloved Tejano singer.JUST WATCHED Inside the tragic death of singer Selena Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Inside the tragic death of singer Selena 01:02Diamond in the muckShe lost her wedding ring nine years ago when she accidentally flushed it down the toilet . Lucky for her, a public works employee had a sharp eye.Homeless and on the 'Street'Meet Lily. She's 7, bright pink and the first Muppet on "Sesame Street" to experience homelessnessJUST WATCHED 'Sesame Street' introduces homeless muppet Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Sesame Street' introduces homeless muppet 01:07Brain fitnessIf you like crosswords or puzzles, that's fine. But don't expect them to fend off the mental declines of old age. New research says they don't help.HAPPENING LATERLack of confidenceBritish Prime Minister Theresa May faces a no-confidence vote today as the UK's Brexit crisis deepens.JUST WATCHED May: Change in leadership could delay Brexit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH May: Change in leadership could delay Brexit 02:32The 'fixer'Former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen could get a lengthy prison term when he's sentenced today.THIS JUST INShaken uppair of earthquakes shook parts of Tennessee, Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, Alabama and South Carolina early this morning.TODAY'S NUMBERS$7.5 millionJUST WATCHED Trump wants to use Huawei case as leverage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump wants to use Huawei case as leverage 00:5429,028That's how many pounds of Jimmy Dean sausage is being recalled because of reports of people finding metal pieces in the meatAND FINALLYTopple the tower