If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.How's this for efficiency: Less than a week ago, a road in Alaska was ripped up in a 7.0-magnitude earthquake. Now, it's completely fixed. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. NAFTAPresident Trump has been threatening to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement, and it looks like he may be close to pulling the trigger . Before last week's G20 Summit in Argentina, Trump and his Canadian and Mexican counterparts signed a replacement NAFTA deal called, appropriately, the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA). When he left the G20, Trump basically gave Congress an ultimatum: Choose between USMCA or nothing. This is important because pulling out of NAFTA without a successor in place would invite Mexico and Canada -- both leading importers of US goods -- to put tariffs on items coming from the United States. With stocks flagging and investor fears mounting, that could set off a pretty severe economic shock.2. DenmarkDenmark has a new plan for dealing with what it calls "unwanted" immigrants: Move them to a remote island that was once used for studying sick animals. No, really. The island in question is Lindholm Island, two miles out to sea. If it sounds extreme, it's supposed to be. Rising far-right and anti-immigration sentiments that have swept Europe have now reached the highest levels of government in Denmark. Some of the country's legislators have made it clear they have no qualms about testing the boundaries of human rights conventions to preserve what they call the Danish way of life. The controversial deal still must be passed by the parliament.3. WisconsinJUST WATCHED State GOP seek to strip power from incoming Dems Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH State GOP seek to strip power from incoming Dems 02:494. Costa RicaThe killing of an American tourist in Costa Rica is threatening the verdant Central American country's reputation as a safe travel destination. The body of 36-year-old Carla Stefaniak was found this week . She went missing late last month after dropping off her travel companion at the airport. Her body has been found, her family confirmed, and a suspect is in custody. Costa Rica is typically seen as a very safe place for travelers, but the country has seen a jump in homicides in recent years. According to one survey of official data, the country broke its record for reported homicides in 2017, with 603 reported killings.JUST WATCHED Missing US woman's body found in Costa Rica Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Missing US woman's body found in Costa Rica 00:425. MicroplasticsJUST WATCHED Fighting to save Zanzibar's sea turtles Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fighting to save Zanzibar's sea turtles 05:06HAPPENING LATERA final day of mourningA funeral service is set for 11 a.m. ET in Houston, where the late former President George H.W. Bush is lying in repose at St. Martin's Episcopal Church. Bush's grandson, Texas Land Commissioner George P. Bush, and his close friend, former Secretary of State James Baker, will deliver eulogies. Burial is set for 5:15 p.m. at the the George H.W. Bush Presidential Library in College Station, Texas.JUST WATCHED Laughter, tears at Bush's Washington funeral Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Laughter, tears at Bush's Washington funeral 02:09BREAKFAST BROWSEPantone has chosen 'Living Coral' as the 2019 color of the yearThe Illinois State Capitol building will house a Satanic statue as part of its holiday decorationsNew York City is dedicated to building more statues of historic women9,000 counterfeit Nikes have been seized by US Customs and Border ProtectionJessica Simpson was irked by Natalie Portman's comment about herTODAY'S QUOTE"When collective hate organizes and gets industrialized, then genocide follows. We have to take it more seriously today than I think we have had to take it in a generation."Director Steven Spielberg, speaking about the spread of hate while reflecting on the 25th anniversary of "Schindler's List"JUST WATCHED How Steven Spielberg stays inspired Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Steven Spielberg stays inspired 03:40TODAY'S NUMBER$130,000That's how much "Secret Santas" across the country have paid off in Walmart layaway bills so far this year. The practice of anonymously paying off other peoples' holiday layaway bills has been going strong for a few years now, and it looks like some generous folks are feeling the holiday spirit.AND FINALLY ...You're my human now