If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Still planning your vacation for 2019? Borrow some ideas from CNN Travel editors, who run down their best trips of 2018 . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President TrumpWhen the President's Twitter feed fell silent Wednesday, he wasn't taking a sudden social media sabbatical -- he was on his way to Iraq. The commander in chief, along with the first lady, surprised US troops with a holiday visit , his first to a war zone. After making the secret overnight flight from Washington and touching down onto a pitch-black airstrip (because of security concerns), Trump stayed on the ground for three hours. He took endless selfies with enthusiastic servicemen and women in a dining hall. Later, during a speech at an air base near Baghdad, he reinforced his skeptical view of wading into foreign conflicts and defended his decision to pull troops out of Syria and Afghanistan. The Trumps landed back in Washington early this morning.2. Financial marketsConsider it a post-Christmas miracle. After suffering its worst Christmas Eve session ever, the Dow roared back Wednesday with its biggest daily point gain in history . The Dow rose 1,086 points -- a 5% gain. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq were up big, too. It was the biggest percentage gain for all three indices in almost a decade. Keep in mind though, thin trading and a lack of big news often send stocks higher in the last week of the year. Will this miraculous rally keep going today? That's anybody's guess in this current environment. But Asian stocks are up this morning, so there's that.JUST WATCHED Stocks stabilize after Christmas Eve drop Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Stocks stabilize after Christmas Eve drop 01:343. RussiaA nuclear missile that's impossible to stop? Russian President Vladimir Putin claims his country has just that. Putin says Russia's new hypersonic missile system is "invulnerable" to US defenses and will be put into service next year. The missile system underwent a test Wednesday at an air base in southwest Russia. The missile, called the Avangard, has intercontinental range and can reportedly fly as fast as 15,000 mph . The Russians also claim it can adjust both altitude and direction and fly low enough to avoid most missile defense systems. A US official told CNN earlier this year that the weapons system is not close to being operational, and analysts caution that Russian boasts of new military capabilities are often overblown.JUST WATCHED Putin teases hypersonic nuclear missiles Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Putin teases hypersonic nuclear missiles 02:494. IndonesiaThe alert level for the volcano that triggered last weekend's deadly tsunami in Indonesia has been raised. That's prompted the evacuation of thousands of people and caused flights to be rerouted. Indonesian officials raised the warning for the Anak Krakatau volcano to 3, which is the second-highest level. Activity and eruptions continue at the volcano, which had seemed to be calming down following Saturday's eruption, which caused the wave that swept through parts of the country, killing more than 430 people.JUST WATCHED Tsunami death toll continues to rise Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tsunami death toll continues to rise 02:205. Australia heatwaveIt's been a hot time Down Under this week. A brutal heat wave is punishing parts of Australia, with the states of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia all hitting above 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius) for four days in a row. Temperatures are averaging about 24 degrees F higher than average for this time of year. Now extreme and severe fire warnings are being issued. CNN meteorologist Brandon Miller says part of the problem is that El Niño conditions appear to be forming over the Pacific Ocean and affecting the country's weather. January is typically the hottest month of Australia's summer, and many fear the early heatwave may be the prelude to even more extreme weather in early 2019.Pink shading shows where the ECMWF model expects surface temperatures to exceed 40C between Thursday and Sunday. pic.twitter.com/YKt0z9c3LU — Weatherzone (@weatherzone) December 24, 2018TODAY'S QUOTE"Whatever it takes. I mean, we're gonna have a wall."President Donald Trump, reiterating that the partial government shutdown shouldn't end , reiterating that the partial government shutdown shouldn't end until he gets funding for a wall on the border with Mexico. Lawmakers are back in Washington today, but talks to end the shutdown are at a standstill.JUST WATCHED Trump talks shutdown during surprise Iraq trip Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump talks shutdown during surprise Iraq trip 02:51BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Dreams do come trueWhat happened when an 8-year-old girl attached What happened when an 8-year-old girl attached her Christmas wish list to a balloon and released it? A Christmas miracle, that's what.CongratulationsMiley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth are more than just a couple. The singer and the actor are now husband and wife after tying the knot over the weekend.JUST WATCHED Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth are married Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth are married 01:09Meaningful mealsChristmas might be over, but somebody in Georgia still has the spirit. An anonymous donor Christmas might be over, but somebody in Georgia still has the spirit. An anonymous donor is providing free lunches to kids during the holiday break.Just let it goRaise your hand if 2018 stressed you out. It's OK. Now is the perfect time to plan trips to visit 16 of the Raise your hand if 2018 stressed you out. It's OK. Now is the perfect time to plan trips to visit 16 of the world's most relaxing placesPhotos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Seven Sisters, England: A designated "Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty," the series of chalk cliffs on the coast of East Sussex, located on the coast of East Sussex between Seaford and Eastbourne, is one of the peaceful places imaginable. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations The Yoga Barn, Ubud, Bali: A paradise for dedicated yogis, this yoga spot holds studios that overlook the town's idyllic countryside, with 15 classes a day, from relaxing yin to dynamic power flow. Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Sidi Chamharouch, Morocco: Named after the Sultan of the Jinns, this Berber settlement at the foot of Mount Toubkal serves as a shrine for pilgrims from across Morocco hoping to cure ailments and make offerings to Allah. Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Ise Jingu, Japan: Dubbed "the soul of Japan," Ise Jingu boast a collection of Shinto shrines dedicated to the sun goddess Amaterasu and has remained a peaceful, relaxing place thanks to its vastness. Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Saruni Samburu Safari Camp, Kenya: Residing on the top of a rocky outcrop, with views over Mount Kenya and Kalama Conservancy, this safari lodge offers six villas that are the peak in post-safari relaxation. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Stanley Park, Vancouver: Covering 1,001 acres, this city park is larger than New York's Central Park and is home to some of Vancouver's most famous landmarks such as Second Beach, Siwash Rock, Prospect Point and the Stanley Park seawall. Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Mendoza, Argentina: Savoring a glass of Malbec as the sun hits the peaks of the Andes, it's hard to imagine a more perfect place to relax than the vineyards around the largest wine region in Argentina. Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Cape Elizabeth Lights, Maine: Home to historic lighthouse Cape Elizabeth Lights (also known as Two Lights,) this peaceful town along Maine's rocky coast is a place of pure relaxation, with the Atlantic swell slumping onto sandy beaches and rugged cliffs. Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Nayara Springs, Costa Rica: Home to a cluster of private luxury villas with views across lush rainforest to the smoldering peak of Arenal, adults only luxury resort Nayara Springs leaves guests filling like they're in their own private bubble. Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Provence, France: One of France's most beautiful and tranquil regions, Provence is both calming and beautiful, making it a great destination to escape the chaos of everyday life without traveling too far from civilization. Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Wilderness Hotel, Nellim, Finland: This family-run retreat in northern Finnish Lapland features a series of log cabins with their own saunas, where guests can relax on cold days before heading out after dark to nearby Lake Inari to catch the Aurora Borealis. Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Siem Reap, Cambodia: While the gateway to Angkor Wat can feel chaotic thanks to the many tourists headed for the temples, its actually a wonderful haven for those looking to take things easy while everyone else goes sightseeing. Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Hoi An, Vietnam: When the sun is out on the riverside, it's hard to find anywhere more serene in the Southeast Asian country than this UNESCO-protected ancient town in Vietnam's central coast. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Zermatt, Switzerland: The Alpine resort takes on a more laid-back feel in the summer time, and the paths leading up to the Matterhorn offer a boost for those seeking the freshest air, passing through picture postcard meadows and along steep tracks. Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Wategos Beach, Byron Bay, Australia: Situated just north west of Cape Byron, this secluded beach is a more relaxed alternative to the busy Main Beach, offering plenty of swimming and surfing opportunities and perfect white sand at every corner. Hide Caption 15 of 16 Photos: 16 of the world's most relaxing destinations Etihad Airways' Airbus A380 'First Apartment': This private space on board Etihad Airway's Airbus A380 features a full bed, a leather armchair, a vanity unit, a shower and food cooked by an on board chef. Hide Caption 16 of 16AND FINALLY ...