If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Today marks the 77th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor , a day that changed the course of American history and the history of the world. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. United NationsThe President may have his new UN ambassador. Trump is expected to nominate State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert to replace Nikki Haley, who announced in October she'd step down. It would be quite a change: The administration as a whole is deeply distrustful of the UN, and the outspoken Haley reportedly sparred with other US officials. Nauert, an ex-Fox News host, would be a decidedly less senior presence in one of the most high-profile posts in US diplomacy. First, though, she'd need to be confirmed by the Senate -- and Dems would likely grill her on her qualifications.2. YemenThe two sides in Yemen's yearslong civil war -- which has ruined the country's economy and infrastructure and sparked a humanitarian crisis -- just began long-awaited direct talks in Sweden as a step toward calming the violence. But even that glimmer of hope has darkened. Just hours before talks began, Houthi rebels and Saudi-backed Yemeni officials traded threats . The talks are sponsored by the United Nations, and a UN official advises everyone to temper their optimism, as the negotiations are merely consultations, not likely a move toward peace. Since the conflict began four years ago , tens of thousands of civilians have been killed or wounded and untold numbers affected by famine. Strategic clashes between the warring parties have choked infrastructure, so aid and basic necessities are extremely hard to access.3. HuaweiJUST WATCHED Who Is Meng Wanzhou? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who Is Meng Wanzhou? 02:414. CoalJUST WATCHED EPA chief worked for climate change skeptic Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH EPA chief worked for climate change skeptic 06:155. Winter weatherHappy Friday! Hope you're ready to be cold. The Southeast is going to see some snowy skies this weekend thanks to a serious winter storm. It will start building today in the Southern Plains and Texas, then spread through the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic. Along with snow, people from Texas and Oklahoma all the way to North Carolina should brace for rain, freezing rain, and just, well, freezing. Meantime, California, still reeling from record wildfires, is facing its own cooldown. Some roads around Los Angeles and Bakersfield had to close yesterday because they were coated with snowHAPPENING LATERMore MuellerIf the Russia investigation is your thing, today is your day. Special counsel Robert Mueller is set to unveil new filings regarding jailed former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and Trump's former personal lawyer Michael Cohen. These documents are expected to be extremely significant for the Trump administration, offering signs of how the Russia drama may unfold in the weeks ahead.JUST WATCHED Trump team's about-face on Paul Manafort Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump team's about-face on Paul Manafort 02:17BREAKFAST BROWSEKevin Hart steps down as 2019 Academy Awards host after his old homophobic tweets resurfaceJUST WATCHED Kevin Hart steps down from hosting Oscars Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kevin Hart steps down from hosting Oscars 01:21Pizza is the top 'addictive' food, according to a studyPhotos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't Dark chocolate is rich in cocoa solids, which contain compounds known as flavonolds. At high levels, cocoa flavanols have been shown to help lower blood pressure and cholesterol, improve cognition and possibly lower the risk of diabetes. But limit your portions to about 1 ounce a day. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't When it comes to fat and calories, some cheeses are lighter than others. Experts recommend using it as a flavor enhancer rather than as the focus of a meal. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't Granola contains healthy ingredients such as oats, nuts and dried fruit, and it can serve as a tasty topping to yogurt or cereal. But since it can pack up to 600 calories per cup (thanks to sugar and other ingredient treats), it's important to sprinkle, not pour. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't Ready-to-eat breakfast cereal can make for a convenient and healthy breakfast, especially if it's made with whole grains, is low in sugar and is served with fresh fruit and low-fat milk. But sugary cereals that lack fiber and protein can cause a blood sugar spike and crash before lunchtime. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't Order a California roll, and you'll get heart-healthy monounsaturated fats from avocado and zinc from crab, all for 255 calories. But a crunchy shrimp tempura roll, which is battered and fried and often drizzled with spicy mayo, has about 200 more calories and three times the amount of fat. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't Air-popped popcorn is a healthy, whole-grain, antioxidant-rich snack that's low in calories. But movie theater popcorn, which is popped in coconut oil, is a diet disaster, contributing 1,200 calories and about three days worth of saturated fat for a medium bucket -- and that's without the buttery topping. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't A Greek yogurt with no added sugar makes for a filling protein- and calcium-rich snack. But sweetened yogurts with flavorings or fruit purees have less protein and are more like dessert, with up to 8 teaspoons of sugar. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't Energy bars can be a wise choice for a snack or mini meal if they offer a healthy dose of protein and fiber, and are low in sugars and saturated fat. But when they contain chocolate coatings or sugary syrups, they can pass for protein-fortified candy bars. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't A salad made with spinach, light tuna, veggies, feta and yogurt dressing can make for a low-calorie, nutrient-rich lunch. But when your salad contains crispy chicken, bacon, cheddar and ranch dressing, you'd be better off eating a burger. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't If you are vegetarian, peanut butter can be a convenient way to add protein and heart-healthy fats to your diet. Just steer clear of flavored peanut butters with sugar and cocoa butter, which can quickly turn your passion for peanut butter into consumption of calorie-rich chocolate. Hide Caption 10 of 10Angela Merkel said 'shitstorm''Jeopardy!' contestants baffled by question about CNN showJUST WATCHED 'Jeopardy!' contestants baffled by CNN question Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Jeopardy!' contestants baffled by CNN question 00:38Dubai launches sail-thru supermarket for yacht ownersHeaven forbid one have to disembark a fancy boat for a Hot Pockets run, like some sort of peasant.TODAY'S QUOTE"We've been carrying a suit on our tour bus for a couple of months and wondering. ...By hook or by crook, we were going to be there for him."Joe Bonsall, of The Oak Ridge Boys, reminiscing about the country group's long friendship with George H.W. Bush. They honored a promise to sing at the former President's funeral with a moving rendition of "Amazing Grace" at yesterday's service in Houston.JUST WATCHED Oak Ridge Boys serenade Bush 41 in 2012 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Oak Ridge Boys serenade Bush 41 in 2012 02:35TODAY'S NUMBER40The number of seats in the House of Representatives gained by Democrats in the midterm elections, according to the latest results, after Republican Rep. David Valadao conceded to TJ Cox in California's 21st District.JUST WATCHED The election results are in. Now what? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The election results are in. Now what? 01:55IT'S THE WEEKEND, BABYJUST WATCHED Showering at cruising altitude Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Showering at cruising altitude 01:58AND FINALLYA living Lite-Brite