If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is in Vladivostok, Russia, for his first meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Keep up with the latest on this important summit. And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. PoliticsPresident Trump has made it clear to House Democrats that they won't get an iota of cooperation from his administration as their various investigations of the Trump presidency move forward. Trump promised yesterday to fight "all the subpoenas," so the Dems are prepping plans to hold officials in contempt. But they're also gearing up for the likely legal fights ahead, as taking the administration to court may be their only recourse. That could tie up the Democrats' probes in legal knots for months or years, which would be just fine with the President, who views all-out defiance of their requests as a winning political strategy2. Sri Lanka terror attacksTwo of the men who blew themselves up in the Easter Sunday attacks in Sri Lanka were members of a wealthy and prominent family . Two sources told CNN that Imsath Ahmed Ibrahim and Ilham Ahmed Ibrahim were among the band of people who attacked churches and hotels in the island nation, in violence that killed at least 359 people. And their father, the founder of the largest spice exporter in the country, is now being held by police on suspicion of helping his sons with the attacks. The fact that such wealthy and well-connected people were a part of the attacks was a "worrying factor," Sri Lanka's defense minister said. Click here for the latest in the investigation and to read more about the victims of the bombings.Sri Lankan: We have failed as a community to be vigilantSri Lankan: We have failed as a community to be vigilant 02:34Sri Lankan: We have failed as a community to be vigilant3. Texas executionThe 1998 dragging death of James Byrd Jr. was so shocking and horrific that it jolted Congress into passing hate crime legislation . Now, one of the three men convicted in the murder has been executed. John William King was executed by injection last night in a Texas prison. He's the second person to die for the crime; Lawrence Russell Brewer was executed in 2011. A third man convicted in the killing is serving a life sentence. Byrd's sister said she felt "no sense of relief" watching King die but called it a "just punishment," noting he'd never shown any remorse.JUST WATCHED A look back at the murder of James Byrd Jr. Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A look back at the murder of James Byrd Jr. 01:194. FacebookFacebook says it's expecting massive fines from federal regulators as it seeks to put all of its privacy scandals behind it. The fines from the Federal Trade commission could range from $3 billion to $5 billion , the social media giant said. That's really bad news, so, of course, Wall Street's reaction to it was ... positive. Facebook shares jumped up 10% after the announcement. Facebook's first quarter profit dipped, too, but analysts expected that because the company is investing heavily in infrastructure and other efforts to protect its platform from abuse, plus incurring hefty legal expenses.JUST WATCHED Facebook's data scandals aren't just bad publicity Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Facebook's data scandals aren't just bad publicity 03:555. MeaslesMeasles cases in the US hit the highest number on record since the disease was declared eradicated in 2000. There have been 681 measles cases across 22 states so far this year, a CNN review of state and local health department data shows. Most of the cases in the US have popped up in communities with low vaccination rates. Measles outbreaks -- defined as three or more cases -- have been ongoing this year in Rockland County and New York, New York; Santa Cruz and Butte counties in California; Washington state; New Jersey; and Michigan.JUST WATCHED Measles cases at record high in US since declared disease eliminated Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Measles cases at record high in US since declared disease eliminated 02:27BREAKFAST BROWSENBC ya laterYou may not be able to stream "The Office" and other fave sitcoms on Netflix for much longer. NBC may yank them as it starts its own streaming service.Dress upWelcome to the Houston high school that has a strict dress code ... for parents.JUST WATCHED High school implements dress code for parents Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH High school implements dress code for parents 01:23An intermission would be niceIf you're running out to see the three-hour-long "Avengers: Endgame" tonight, you might want to take the Runpee app with you, for reasons that should be obvious.JUST WATCHED Behind the scenes of 'Avengers: Endgame' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Behind the scenes of 'Avengers: Endgame' 01:23For you, MomMeet Rodney Robinson. He teaches incarcerated kids as a way to honor his mom , who was denied an education. Now, he's the National Teacher of the Year.TODAY'S QUOTE"Somebody dropped the ball."Seamus Hughes, deputy director of the Program on Extremism at George Washington University, on the revelation that a one-time Islamic jihadist who spent years in an Israeli prison for attempting to bomb a bus was , deputy director of the Program on Extremism at George Washington University, on the revelation that a one-time Islamic jihadist who spent years in an Israeli prison for attempting to bomb a bus was granted US citizenshipJUST WATCHED Trump: We don't want them here Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: We don't want them here 02:50TODAY'S NUMBER1,700The approximate number of decks of cards sent to the office of a Washington state senator who said nurses "probably play cards" most of the day. She apologized.JUST WATCHED State lawmaker receives backlash over nurses comment Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH State lawmaker receives backlash over nurses comment 00:52TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe weather possible along Gulf Coast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe weather possible along Gulf Coast 01:28AND FINALLYThe robots are coming