(CNN) After the suicide last Thursday of a teenager who had been bullied for being gay, a local news station in Huntsville, Alabama, posted a story to its Facebook page raising awareness about LGBTQ bullying.One Facebook user took issue with that post."LibertyGunsBibleTrumpBBQThat's my kind of LGBTQ movement," the comment read, a reference to a mocking T-shirt"I'm seriously offended that there is such a thing such as this movement," the user wrote. "Society cannot and should not except (sic) this behavior. I have a right to be offended and will always be offended by this fake movement which requires no special attention but by persons with an altered ego and fake agenda."That user, Jeff Graves, is a deputy with the Madison County Sheriff's Office, and the office confirmed on Monday that he is now on leave after people saw his posts and complained.The Madison County Sheriff's Office announced in a statement that it would audit the allegations of misconduct and that Graves has been placed on administrative leave pending its outcome."The Sheriff's Office holds all its employees to high standard, and the public can be assured that a thorough and complete audit will be conducted and appropriate action will be taken," the office said.In addition, Sheriff Kevin Turner offered his condolences to the teen's family and friends and spoke out against bullying."Bullying of any group or person in or outside of schools is unacceptable, and I welcome any and all efforts to raise awareness to bullying and bring bullying to a stop," Turner said in the statement. "The Madison County Sheriff's Office is proud of the community support and engagement we have received over the years, and we look forward to growing those community partnerships."LGBTQ bullyingThe comments came after the death of Nigel Shelby, a 15-year-old freshman at Huntsville High School. His death has focused media attention on the issues LGBTQ students face, and Sen. Cory Booker mentioned his story in a tweet.Jo Stafford, the assistant principal of Huntsville High School responsible for 9th grade, sent a message to students saying that the administration did not receive any complaints of bullying and harassment of Nigel prior to his death. She said they were investigating the circumstances of his time at the high school."It is important to understand that the administrators and counselors of Huntsville High School had a close relationship with both Nigel and his mother during his time at Huntsville High School," Stafford wrote."They worked with Nigel to ensure that he felt at home at Huntsville High School. Those individuals are absolutely devastated by Nigel's passing and are doing everything in their power to support Nigel's mother in any way they can."Huntsville City Board of Education Superintendent Christie Finley spoke about Nigel's death on Monday, according to Keith Ward, director of communications for Huntsville City Schools. She said she had spoken to Nigel's mother and asked the public to reach out and support her."By all accounts, Nigel was loved by his classmates, his teachers, and his administrators. In this time of loss in our community, I am reminded of our calling to treat one another how we want to be treated," said Finley.Rocket City Pride , a group that works with the LGBTQ community in Alabama, offered its condolences after Nigel's death."We are heartbroken over the death of Nigel Shelby, a 15 year old Freshman at Huntsville High School. Nigel took his life because he was bullied for being gay. There are no words that can be said to make sense of this devastating news."