(CNN) A man who helped carry out the dragging death of James Byrd Jr. -- one of the most horrific hate crimes in modern American history -- was executed by injection on Wednesday evening in a Texas prison.John William King, 44, was one of three men convicted for the murder. He is the second person to die for the crime that made news around the world and helped inspire Congress to pass federal hate crime legislationKing was pronounced dead at 7:08 p.m. (8:08 p.m. ET) at Texas State Penitentiary at Huntsville.According to Jeremy Desel with the Texas Department of Criminal Justice, King had his eyes closed and replied "No" to the warden when asked whether he had any last words.King did give a written statement that said, "Capital Punishment: Them without the capital get the punishment."Clara Byrd Taylor, center, said King showed no remorse for the killing.Desel said the execution was delayed because the case went to the US Supreme Court before moving ahead at 6:56 p.m.Clara Byrd Taylor said while watching her brother's killer die she felt nothing."There was no sense of relief," she said.She called the execution a "just punishment."King showed no remorse, not Wednesday, not ever, she said.The killer had his eyes closed the entire time he was on the gurney, Desel said, and only moved once, taking one deep breath as the execution started.Dragged for nearly 3 milesByrd's acquaintances told police they'd seen Byrd, who was black, at a party the night of June 6, 1998, that he'd left around 2 a.m. and was later seen riding in the bed of a pickup with three white men in the cab.Authorities said King, Lawrence Russell Brewer and Shawn Berry picked up Byrd and drove him to a secluded area where they beat him and spray-painted his face before tying a logging chain around his ankles and dragging him behind a pickup truck for almost 3 miles.Ricky Jason, a friend of Ross Byrd's, wears a photo of James Byrd before Russell Brewer's execution.While most murders are brutal, the viciousness of Byrd's killing shocked the world. NBA star Dennis Rodman came forward to pay for Byrd's funeral. Filmmakers produced multiple documentaries. Artists including Geto Boys, Drive-By Truckers and Will Smith referenced the violent saga in their songs. Maryland poet laureate Lucille Clifton penned an ode to Byrd.Lawrence Russell Brewer, 44, was executed for Byrd's killing in 2011.Most importantly, the 49-year-old's slaying spurred Texas and Congress to push through hate crime legislation. The federal act is often associated with the killing of Matthew Shepard, a gay student beaten to death in Wyoming, but the full name of the law is the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention ActKing had long maintained his innocence, once sending a letter to the Dallas Morning News that would later be used against him. He had said the evidence presented in his case was circumstantial and that Berry was solely responsible for Byrd's death.King has repeatedly appealed his guilty verdict, claiming ineffective assistance from his counsel, but a federal appeals court upheld his conviction last year, and the US Supreme Court declined to hear his case in October.John William King is escorted to the courthouse for sentencing in 1999.Though the motive was never specifically outlined, race was a theme in King's trial. Prosecutors presented evidence that King had been an "exalted cyclops" of the white supremacist Confederate Knights of America and regularly drew lynching scenes.King was the third prisoner executed in Texas this year, after cop killer Robert Mitchell Jennings and triple murderer Billie Wayne Coble.