If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Congrats to the Baylor Bears, the new queens of the court. They beat Notre Dame last night to win their third women's college basketball national title . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Kirstjen Nielsen2. Abducted American freedKimberly Sue Endicott is free this morning, after her dream trip to Uganda turned into a nightmare. Endicott and a guide were kidnapped by gunmen last week while they were on an excursion to see gorillas at a Ugandan national park. The armed gang demanded a ransom of $500,000, Ugandan police said. Security forces rescued Endicott and the guide , who were both unharmed, yesterday in the neighboring Democratic Republic of the Congo. A ransom was paid to free them, a source told CNN.3. LibyaThere's been an uptick in violence in the Libyan capital of Tripoli, so the US is pulling troops out of the country . The troops -- who provide military support of diplomatic missions, counterterrorism activities and improving regional security -- are being temporarily relocated. US officials wouldn't say where these troops are being sent due to security reasons. The increase in violence comes from attacks by a renegade Libyan general who has launched an offensive against the country's UN-recognized government.JUST WATCHED Libya is in the spotlight once again. Here's why Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Libya is in the spotlight once again. Here's why 01:574. Burned Louisiana churchesOver an almost two-week span, three black churches in one rural parish have burned in suspicious fires . St. Mary Baptist Church, Greater Union Baptist Church and Mount Pleasant Baptist Church have all burned since March 26 in St. Landry Parish, about 30 miles north of Lafayette. Officials call the blazes "suspicious" and have stepped up the law enforcement presence at other churches in the area. Black churches were often the targets of violence , including arson fires, during the civil rights era.JUST WATCHED 3 black churches burned in 10 days Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 3 black churches burned in 10 days 02:055. UK and tech companiesSocial media companies could be held legally responsible for any violent content on their platforms under new rules proposed by the UK government. The rules, intended to make the internet safe for kids and other vulnerable groups, would force tech companies to scrub from their platforms any content that incites violence, encourages suicide or constitutes cyber-bullying. The government would block access to websites or apps that fail to comply and the senior managers of those tech companies could face civil fines and criminal liability. More details on the proposed rules will be available today in a government position paper. European countries have taken a more robust approach in trying to regulate tech companies than the US has.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Knowles sisters, Part 1The Beyhive is buzzing after Netflix hinted it will drop a new Beyoncé documentary next week called "Homecoming" ...JUST WATCHED Beyoncé serenades legend for her birthday Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Beyoncé serenades legend for her birthday 00:50Knowles sisters, Part 2JUST WATCHED Beyoncé makes history at Coachella (2018) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Beyoncé makes history at Coachella (2018) 00:52Do betterReba McEntire hosted the ACM Awards last night and promptly pointed out that not a single woman was nominated for the show's top award. (Check out the list of winners here .)Reba McEntire, left, Jason Aldean, center, and Shawn Parr speak during the 54th Academy Of Country Music Awards host press conference on April 5, 2019 in Las Vegas, Nevada.Welcome back to WesterosThe beginning of the end for "Game of Thrones" is near, and here are the questions we better get answered.JUST WATCHED Behind the music of 'Game of Thrones' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Behind the music of 'Game of Thrones' 01:26NUMBERS OF THE DAY17 feetThat's the length of a python -- with 73 eggs!!! -- that scientists caught in the Florida EvergladesThat's a lotta snake.$12 millionThat's how much Motel 6 will pay to settle a lawsuit after several of its Washington state locations gave their guest lists to ICEJUST WATCHED Motel 6 to pay $12M after giving guest lists to ICE Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Motel 6 to pay $12M after giving guest lists to ICE 01:46TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe storms threaten 26 million Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe storms threaten 26 million 01:40AND FINALLY ...Just showing off