If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) It's Good Friday. Let's mark the day by checking out how it's observed around the world .Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.(You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Mueller reportSo, what now? It seems to be the key question now that the world has finally seen the redacted version of special counsel Robert Mueller's report. Though it clears Donald Trump and his 2016 campaign of colluding with the Russians, it lays out just how hard the Russians worked to improve Trump's electoral prospects -- and that Team Trump seemed perfectly fine with that assist from a foreign power. Still, Mueller didn't feel he had enough evidence to find any of this criminal.JUST WATCHED Late-night hosts make a mockery out of Mueller report Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Late-night hosts make a mockery out of Mueller report 01:532. Notre Dame fireWhile they're not "excluding any hypothesis at this stage," investigators in Paris seem to be checking out whether an electrical short-circuit caused the fire that devastated Notre Dame Cathedral. They've also been questioning workers at companies that were doing renovation work at the time. Despite the destruction, we're learning how centuries of priceless treasures were saved from the flames. And donation pledges continue to come in for Notre Dame's restoration, totaling more than $900 million so far.JUST WATCHED Cathedral bells toll in solidarity with Notre Dame Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cathedral bells toll in solidarity with Notre Dame 02:003. Russia and North KoreaNorth Korean leader Kim Jong Un will be hitting the road again. He'll go to Russia later this month to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin . The Kremlin didn't provide any other details about the meeting. It'll be interesting to see what comes out of this summit, since nuclear talks between North Korea and the US have stalled out since Trump and Kim met earlier this yearJUST WATCHED CNN reporter on Trump's claim: Things are not 'excellent' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN reporter on Trump's claim: Things are not 'excellent' 01:134. South Carolina prison lawsuitWhen Allen Capers died in a South Carolina prison on New Year's Eve 2017, his family alleges it happened under the most shocking of circumstances. They say he was stabbed in his cell, then dragged into the prison yard by correctional officers who left him there to die . Capers' family has sued the state's Department of Corrections, and an attorney has released surveillance footage that appears to show a wounded Capers in the prison yard, trying to get to his feet while guards approach him. They aren't seen in the video giving him medical attention. A Corrections Department spokeswoman said "more should have been done" to help Capers and the staff's actions are being reviewed.JUST WATCHED Family shares video they say shows man left to die in prison Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Family shares video they say shows man left to die in prison 01:515. WeatherSome powerful storms will pound the South today. The storms have already killed three people in Mississippi and Alabama, and now they are rolling through the Deep South (it's raining sideways here in Atlanta) and into the Carolinas and Mid-Atlantic states. Parts of Alabama, Florida and Georgia are under tornado watches. The threat of severe thunderstorms and tornadoes will be high, especially in North and South Carolina. And states like New Jersey and New York are prepping for heavy rain and flooding tonight and tomorrow.JUST WATCHED Severe weather likely along East Coast Friday Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe weather likely along East Coast Friday 01:43BREAKFAST BROWSEGame of ElmoIf the Sesame Star had it his way, he'd solve all family vendettas with ... respectful conversation . But that probably wouldn't make for a great finale.Pink MoonTonight's full moon won't actually be pink -- but it'll be larger than average and definitely worth a peek at the sky.JUST WATCHED A Pink Moon is coming -- but what is that? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A Pink Moon is coming -- but what is that? 01:07Lucky stopRunning late to an interview won't get you out of a traffic ticket -- unless you're this guyFitness goalsHappy birthday to the 98-year-old veteran from Oregon who is fitter than we'll ever beHAPPENING LATERSentencing dayDavid and Louise Turpin, the California couple that pleaded guilty to abusing and torturing 12 of their 13 children, will be sentenced today . But first they'll have to hear what promises to be gut-wrenching testimony from their kids.JUST WATCHED Watch Turpin parents plead guilty to multiple charges Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch Turpin parents plead guilty to multiple charges 02:13TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeActivists glued themselves to this object in London to protest "disastrous inaction" on climate change.A. a planeB. a taxiC. a trainD. a police carAND FINALLYTom and Jerry