Story highlights Someone has been stealing jewelery at a swank Manhattan addressPolice say there were no signs of forced entry at 740 Park AvenueResidents of 31-unit building include Vera Wang, David KochGiven the pedigree of 740 Park Avenue's past and present residents -- John D. Rockefeller Jr., philanthropist Irene Guggenheim, designer Vera Wang and businessman David Koch, to name a few -- it's no surprise the jewelry taken in several thefts since May is primo stuff:-- His and hers Patek Philippe watches, a Rolex watch and diamond earrings and a diamond necklace (more than $100,000 total)-- Diamond bracelet and rhinestone pin ($82,400)-- Two diamond earrings and other jewelry ($53,000)-- A $7,500 wrist watchPhotos: 9 notorious multimillion-dollar heists Photos: 9 notorious multimillion-dollar heists Thieves plundered millions in valuables over Easter holiday from the vault of a safety deposit company in Hatton Garden, London's exclusive jewelry district. Stolen cash and jewelry could be worth almost $300 million (£200m), a former Scotland Yard commander told the BBC , though numerous British news organizations put the loss vastly lower, in the hundreds of thousands of pounds. Hide Caption 1 of 9 Photos: 9 notorious multimillion-dollar heists In July 2013, an armed robber held up a jewelry exhibition at the Carlton Hotel in the French resort city of Cannes, stealing jewels worth an estimated 102 million euros ($136 million). Hide Caption 2 of 9 Photos: 9 notorious multimillion-dollar heists In 1978 gangster Jimmy "The Gent" Burke stole $8 million in cash and jewels from John F. Kennedy International Airport. It was considered the largest robbery in U.S. history at the time. Burke died in 1996 while serving 20 years to life in a New York prison when he fell ill with cancer. In January 2014, five alleged mobsters were arrested on racketeering charges related to the 1978 heist. Hide Caption 3 of 9 Photos: 9 notorious multimillion-dollar heists In 1990, robbers posing as Boston police officers entered the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum's security door, then handcuffed the guards on duty to pipes in the basement. The 13 pieces of stolen artwork, including works by Rembrandt and Vermeer, were valued at $500 million, and are yet to be recovered, despite a $5 million reward offered by the museum for their recovery. Earlier this month, the museum offered $100,000 for the return of one stolen item: a 10-inch-tall gilded bronze eagle -- a finial dating from the Napoleonic era. Hide Caption 4 of 9 Photos: 9 notorious multimillion-dollar heists A gang of robbers posing as a landscape company dug a tunnel underneath Banco Central in Fortaleza, Brazil. On a Saturday in August 2005, they broke through concrete and steel into a vault and stole $69.8 million (165 million Brazilian reais). A few involved have been caught, but it remains an open case. Hide Caption 5 of 9 Photos: 9 notorious multimillion-dollar heists Cybercriminals from New York stole $45 million from banks globally by breaking into the banks' systems to drastically increase the amount available on the cards, and then used the information about the cards to withdraw money at banks around the world. Seven were charged and the group leader, Alberto Yusi Lajud-Peña, was killed in April 2013. The photo shows suspects Elvis Rafael Rodriguez (left) and Emir Yasser Yeje, pose with bundles of cash. Hide Caption 6 of 9 Photos: 9 notorious multimillion-dollar heists Wearing suits and in professional disguise makeup, two men stole 43 items worth $65 million in the middle of the day from Graff Jewelry Store in London in 2009. They threatened employees with handguns while collecting the merchandise, then drove off in a BMW. The two men were later arrested and jailed. Among the stolen items was this platinum diamond pendant hat. Hide Caption 7 of 9 Photos: 9 notorious multimillion-dollar heists Just hours before the United States began bombing Iraq in 2003, Saddam Hussein's family took $1 billion from the country's central bank. People who lived near the Central Bank at the time told CNN that they saw three or four trucks backed up to the bank, and that people appeared to be load money onto them. Since he was acting as an absolute ruler at the time, it may have seemed to him more like a withdrawal than a robbery. Hide Caption 8 of 9 Photos: 9 notorious multimillion-dollar heists In 1983, six thieves broke into the Brink's-MAT warehouse at Heathrow Airport in London, thinking they would grab a few million in cash. However, they found gold ingots, diamonds and cash worth a total of 28 million pounds (about $50 million at the time). The thieves tied up three guards, doused them in gasoline and said they would light the guards on fire if they didn't give the pass codes to the vault. Just three of 15 men involved in planning and executing the robbery were ever convicted. Hide Caption 9 of 9New York City Police are investigating grand larceny robberies at the most exclusive of Manhattan addresses. There were no signs of forced entry, according to Sgt. Carlos Nieves.The building's real estate firm, Brown Harris Stevens, also is investigating, said Amy Gotzler, senior vice president of communications.Police are focusing on four robberies that occurred while residents were on vacation, between May 30 and July 30.Completed in 1930, 740 Park Avenue also was home to the parents of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. Current residents include business magnate Steve Schwarzman.Some of its 31 units have sold for as much as $29.9 million, according to Michael Gross, author of "740 Park," billed as the inside story of New York's richest, most prestigious cooperative apartment building."In the last 30 years, it has developed a reputation as one of the strictest, hardest to get into, most exclusive," Gross told CNN on Thursday. "740 Park means that you're there. You're it."Retired jewel thief Walter Shaw, author of "A License to Steal," said he believes the thefts are an inside job."Because if they go back to the surveillance tapes and cameras, they're gonna see that they don't recognize anybody that doesn't belong there," said Shaw.Shaw was in the business for 30 years and is said to have netted $70 million in goods with his crew, dubbed the "Dinner Set Crew" because it robbed folks while they ate in a different part of the house.He served nearly 12 years and was released in 1986 and later produced movies. According to Shaw, he and his team never did "high-rise" jobs because there was only one way in -- and one way out."I would think it's somebody that knows the building pretty well and knows the shift changes and knows the comings and goings of the maid service or construction being done, and they blended in," said Shaw.Gross speculates that whoever robbed the apartments did so by locating each individual apartment's key box."Now you've got four unrelated families all during summer vacation -- when no one's around -- (and) someone managed to get in with no signs of break-in. Hello? That means keys. Where are the keys? They're in the key box."