Story highlights Emily Gilbert tells CNN that the mayor gave her "tush a pat" at a fundraising eventSinger who resembles Marilyn Monroe says mayor asked: "Marilyn, can I get your card?"Filner has refused to resign; he says he will enter a behavior counseling clinicA ninth woman is accusing San Diego Mayor Bob Filner of sexual harassment.Emily Gilbert told CNN Friday that she was hired to sing at a fundraising event in December. Afterward, she said, the mayor grabbed her, slid his hand down the small of her back and gave her "tush a pat."She said Filner had pulled her away and told his female assistant to give him and Gilbert a moment alone.He then asked her: "Oh, Marilyn, can I get your card?" she recalled to CNN. Gilbert bears a passing resemblance to Marilyn Monroe, but she hastened to add she was not performing as a Monroe impersonator.She said that he touched her, Filner told the singer, "I hope to see you again, Marilyn."Gilbert told CNN that her husband was upset but felt powerless because Filner was the mayor.CNN has made multiple efforts to contact Filner and his representatives on the latest allegations but has not gotten a response.JUST WATCHED Could San Diego mayor be ousted? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Could San Diego mayor be ousted? 01:44The 70-year-old, dogged for weeks by sexual harassment allegations, served five terms in Congress before being elected mayor in 2012.Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Businesswoman Dianne York told CNN that San Diego Mayor Bob Filner put his hands on her buttocks during this photo op after a meeting three months ago. York said there were witnesses. She said both her advisers and Filner's were in the room at the time. Click through the gallery of other women who have come forward in the case. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Caryl Iseman , a San Diego real estate agent, attended an anti-Filner rally in August. She told CNN iReporter Chris Morrow that at a fundraiser 25 years ago, after photos had been taken, Filner "decided he could reach around and grab my breast." Iseman indicated it was the first time she had spoken publicly about the alleged incident. "The sheriff's department knows about it. I have not yet come forward yet with it ... but if it's needed to establish the timeline of how long this guy has been doing this, I will." Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Peggy Shannon, a 67-year-old great-grandmother who works at the Senior Citizens Service Desk in San Diego City Hall, faced "continuous inappropriate sexual advances by Filner while trying to do her job," according to the office of her attorney, Gloria Allred. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Kathryn Vaughn, a San Diego attorney, told CNN affiliate KFMB that after her husband walked away at a public event 10 years ago, Filner "made an inappropriate movement on my body." Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Eldonna Fernandez says Filner left her a flirtatious e-mail after they met at a Healing and Hiring Fair held by the National Women's Veterans Association of America in 2012. "Hi, it's your newly favorite congressman, Bob Filner. You know, the one who fell in love with you at your last speech," Filner said in the voicemail. Filner, 70, has been dogged for weeks by sexual harassment allegations. He has refused to resign. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Army veteran Gerri Tindley says Filner got too close to her at a National Women's Veterans Association of America event where she gave a speech about being raped, which she said happened during her eight years of service. Tindley said she felt uncomfortable as Filner moved closer and closer -- so close, she said, that she nearly fell off the couch trying to move away from him. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Michelle Tyler, center, has accused Filner of unwanted sexual advances . During a news conference, Tyler said that during a visit to his office in June, Filner rubbed her arm and asked for dinner dates in exchange for his helping Katherine Ragazzino, right, a brain-injured Iraq war veteran. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Renee Estill-Sombright told CNN affiliate KGTV that the mayor called her "beautiful" at a church breakfast in June, said he couldn't take his eyes off her, asked whether she was married and then said he'd like to take her out some time. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Emily Gilbert accused Filner of sexual harassment on Friday, August 2. She told CNN she was hired to sing at a fundraising event in December and the mayor grabbed her, slid his hand down the small of her back and gave her "tush a pat." He then asked her: "Oh, Marilyn, can I get your card?" she recalled. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Filner's former spokeswoman, Irene McCormack Jackson, has also accused him of sexual harassment and filed a suit against him. She said Filner subjected her and other women to "crude and disgusting" comments and inappropriate touching. She resigned as Filner's communications director in June after, she said, she decided the mayor would not change his behavior. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Nonprofit founder Morgan Rose said she met Filner in 2009 when she was lobbying for her organization, which works with military and other families hurt by domestic violence. She says he looked her up and down, stared into her eyes and said, "Your eyes have bewitched me." He then moved to her side of the booth, sat beside her, pinned her to the wall, and put his arm around her, Rose alleged. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Political consultant Laura Fink has accused the mayor of patting her "posterior" at a fundraising event in 2005. At the time, Fink was working as the deputy manager of Filner's congressional campaign. She said she thinks Filner should resign. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Sharon Bernie-Cloward, president of the San Diego Port Tenants Association, claims that when Filner was running for mayor in 2012, he approached her at a political event. "He touched me, actually groped me on my backside inappropriately," she told KPBS. "I was left there startled and fearful. In fact, I actually had someone walk me to my car that night." Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Patti Roscoe, a prominent businesswoman in San Diego's tourism and hospitality industry, told KPBS that on numerous occasions, Filner "put me in what I guess now is the famous headlock." She told the station: "I felt fearful, even as well as I knew him, because it was an invasion into my space. And he would come in and try to kiss me on the lips, and I'd have to squirm to get away." Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Veronica "Ronne" Froman, a retired Navy rear admiral and San Diego's former chief operating officer, told KPBS that she and Filner, then a congressman, met a few years ago at his office after everyone had left. "He stopped me and he got very close to me. And he ran his finger up my cheek like this, and he whispered to me, 'Do you have a man in your life?' " she said. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Joyce Gattas, a dean at San Diego State University, told KPBS that she had several "interactions" with Filner "where he's held me too tight, a kiss on the cheek which is inappropriate, hands on the knee that last too long." Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Photos: San Diego mayor's accusers San Diego mayor's accusers – Lisa Curtin, the director of government and military education at San Diego City College, told KPBS that Filner grabbed her hand, fingered her wedding ring and asked if it was real. She also said he tried to kiss her; she moved her head and felt his tongue on her cheek. Hide Caption 17 of 17JUST WATCHED San Diego's mayor headed to rehab Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH San Diego's mayor headed to rehab 04:24JUST WATCHED Woman: Mayor Filner tried to kiss me Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman: Mayor Filner tried to kiss me 01:05Earlier this summer, when the allegations first began, Filner acknowledged "I need help," and added, "I'm clearly doing something wrong.""I am embarrassed to admit that I have failed to fully respect the women who work for me and with me, and that at times I have intimidated them. It's a good thing that behavior that would have been tolerated in the past is being called out in this generation for what it is: inappropriate and wrong," he said in a statement issued July 11.But Filner has also said he believes he will be vindicated by "a full presentation of the facts" and he will not resign.In late July, Filner said he planned to enter "a behavior counseling clinic" for two weeks of intensive therapy starting August 5. In a statement given at City Hall, he apologized "to the women I have offended.""The behavior I have engaged in over many years is wrong. My failure to respect women and the intimidating conduct I engaged in at times is inexcusable," he said.Before Gilbert, Filner's former spokeswoman, Irene McCormack Jackson, and seven other women accused Filner of sexual harassment. Jackson has filed a sexual harassment suit against Filner.He asked the city to pay for his legal fees; the city council voted against thatJackson said Filner subjected her and other women to "crude and disgusting" comments and inappropriate touching. She said she resigned as Filner's communications director in June after deciding the mayor would not change his behavior.None of the other women leveling claims of sexual harassment against Filner came forward until Jackson filed her suit in state court.One of the women is a nonprofit group founder who said she was lobbying Filner for her organization, which works with military and other families hurt by domestic violence. Morgan Rose met with Filner in 2009 at a Marie Callender's Restaurant & Bakery across the street from Filner's congressional office in Chula Vista, California, she told CNN.Filner allegedly looked her up and down, stared into her eyes and said, "Your eyes have bewitched me," Rose said.Filner allegedly then made a remark along the lines of, according to Rose's paraphrasing, "You'll have to excuse me for what's about to happen. It's your fault."Filner then moved to her side of the booth, sat beside her, pinned her to the wall, and put his arm around her, Rose alleged.Rose avoided the advances, and Filner was suddenly interrupted by his ringing cell phone, Rose said.Filner got up from the booth, gathered his materials and left the restaurant, Rose said.Rose spoke of the incident to her closest friends and didn't pursue the matter because she feared her nonprofit might somehow suffer, she told CNN.But when Rose said that when she heard of similar accusations against Filner in recent weeks, she called a victim's hotline at the sheriff's department and spoke with a captain.Another woman, political consultant Laura Fink, has accused the mayor of patting what she described as her "posterior" at a fundraising event in 2005. At the time, Fink was working as the deputy manager of Filner's congressional campaign. Fink told CNN that she thinks Filner should resign.Sharon Bernie-Cloward, president of the San Diego Port Tenants Association, claims that when Filner was running for mayor in 2012, he approached her at a political event, according to San Diego's public television station."He touched me, actually groped me on my backside inappropriately," Bernie-Cloward told KPBS . "I was left there startled and fearful. In fact, I actually had someone walk me to my car that night."Patti Roscoe, a prominent businesswoman in San Diego's tourism and hospitality industry, told KPBS that on numerous occasions, Filner "put in me what I guess now is the famous headlock.""I felt fearful, even as well as I knew him, because it was an invasion into my space," Roscoe told the station. "And he would come in and try to kiss me on the lips and I'd have to squirm to get away. And just as recently as a few months ago this happened. I turned and he just slobbered down my chin."And I was so violated and so offended. It's just such a terrible invasion."Veronica "Ronne" Froman, a retired Navy rear admiral and San Diego's former chief operating officer, told KPBS said that she and Filner, then a congressman, met a few years ago at his office after everyone had left."He stopped me and he got very close to me. And he ran his finger up my cheek like this and he whispered to me, 'Do you have a man in your life?' " Froman said. "I jumped back. I was very, very startled. And I said, 'Yes, I have a man in my life.'"And he said, 'who?' And I said, 'Linden Blue.' He says, 'Oh, of the Blues Brothers?' And he says, 'Maybe we can get together sometime and have lunch and he can support me for mayor.'"I was really rattled. I got in the car with the two guys I was working with and I told them never to leave me alone in a room with Bob Filner again."Joyce Gattas, a dean at San Diego State University, told KPBS that she had several "interactions" with Filner "where he's held me too tight, a kiss on the cheek which is inappropriate, hands on the knee that last too long."The eighth woman to accuse the mayor was Lisa Curtin, who is director of government and military education at San Diego City College, according to KPBS. She said that he grabbed her hand, fingered her wedding ring and asked if it was real. She also said he tried to kiss her; she moved her head and she felt his tongue on her cheek.