Story highlights Source: Officials believed intercepts indicated potentially imminent attackCoded words pointed to likelihood of attack on overseas U.S. installation, source says"There was a sense of imminence" in the intercepted messages, a U.S. official saidYemeni official said suspected bomb-maker not hurt in drone strike, contrary to reportThe intercepted al Qaeda communications that sparked the closure of U.S. embassies in the Middle East and North Africa contained specific words that American intelligence interpreted as a coded message for what they believed signaled a potentially imminent attack, CNN has learned.The coded words directly pointed to the likelihood of a significant al Qaeda attack against an overseas U.S. installation, according to a U.S. source familiar with the latest intelligence.However, the words did not give clues as to a specific location or target, which is what led to closing nearly two dozen embassies and other diplomatic facilities deemed to possibly be at risk.The U.S. intelligence community had been monitoring al Qaeda communications regularly, but was especially concerned about three intercepts.The first was from Nasser al-Wuyhashi, the leader of al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, outlining a possible attack. Another was Ayman al-Zawahiri's response to that from his position as leader of the global al Qaeda movement.Two weeks earlier, the United States had also monitored a communication from Zawahiri appointing al-Wuyhashi as his deputy.Photos: Embassy closings Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – A recently intercepted message among senior al Qaeda operatives alarmed the U.S. State Department and led to the closing of 22 embassies and consulates Sunday, August 4, across the Middle East and North Africa. On Sunday afternoon, the State Department said it had extended the closures in 15 of the locations until Saturday, August 10, and added four other posts to the list. Click through to see which facilities are affected, beginning with the U.S. Embassy in Amman, Jordan, which is closed for the week. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. embassy in Dhaka, Bangladesh, was closed August 4 but was scheduled to reopen on Monday, August 5. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in the Saudi capital of Riyadh will be closed for the week along with the consulates in Dhahran and Jeddah. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Muscat, Oman, will remain closed through August 10. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Tripoli, Libya, is closed for the week. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan, was closed on Sunday and reopened Monday. The consulate in the Afghan city of Mazar-e Sharif was also closed and reopened. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message triggers embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq, shown here under construction in October 2007, reopened August 5. The consulates in Basrah and Erbil, which were closed, also resumed normal business on Monday. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Cairo, Egypt, shown here during a demonstration on September 11, 2012, will remain closed. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Antananarivo, Madagascar, was one of four embassies added to the list of facilities to remain closed for the week. The others were the embassies in Burundi, Rwanda and Mauritius. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Sanaa, Yemen, is closed until August 10. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Doha, Qatar, is closed for the week. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Algiers, Algeria, closed on August 4 and reopened the next day. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – Officials announced that they would add the U.S. Embassy in Port Louis on the island of Mauritius to the list of facilities that will be closed for the week. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S Embassy in Kigali, Rwanda, will remain closed for the week. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Khartoum, Sudan, will remain closed for the week. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Manama, Bahrain, will remain closed for the week. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Nouakchott, Mauritania, reopened August 5. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Kuwait City, Kuwait, will remain closed for the week. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Djibouti will remain closed. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Embassy closings Intercepted message spurs embassy closings – The U.S. Embassy in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, will remain closed along with the consulate in Dubai. Hide Caption 20 of 20A U.S. official declined to discuss specific code words on the intercepts but told CNN "there was a sense of imminence, a sense of the overall area at risk and the known actors. There was great concern."Members of Congress have indicated that National Security Agency surveillance programs played a role in intercepting and monitoring recent al Qaeda communications.The programs were defended by Secretary of State John Kerry on Tuesday."A number of groups in the world have individually targeted not just American interests but free interests in the world," Kerry said during press conference in Brasilia, Brazil. "There have been bombings in many places in the world. Innocent people have lost their lives. And what the United States has been trying to do is prevent these things from happening beforehand by knowing what others might be plotting."Separately, a Yemeni official told CNN that a recent drone strike did not injure suspected AQAP bombmaker Ibrahim al-Asiri contrary to an earlier Yemeni news agency report that said he might have been hurt.