Story highlights A bus was carrying members of King family after 'Dream' speech ceremonyThe bus and a car collided near Washington's Tidal Basin just off the National MallReality star Omarosa Manigault said she was on the bus: 'We were very afraid'Mall Police say a person in the car taken to hospital; no report yet on bus passengersFamily members of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. were involved in a bus accident Wednesday after the high-profile ceremony marking the 50th anniversary of King's "I Have a Dream" speech, police said.The bus and a car collided near Washington's Tidal Basin just off the National Mall where the ceremony was held, according to Park Police, who have jurisdiction over the Mall.They said a person in the car was injured and taken to a hospital but did not provide information on injuries to bus passengers.Several members of the King family were aboard the bus and had laid a wreath at the memorial to the civil rights leader, according to Omarosa Manigault, a reality television star who was aboard the bus.Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – Members of the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr's family ring a bell on Wednesday, August 28, as President Barack Obama watches, during the Let Freedom Ring Commemoration and Call to Action to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington. Hide Caption 1 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – Rep. John Lewis of Georgia speaks during the ceremony, celebrating the 50 year anniversary of when Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his "I Have a Dream" speech. Hide Caption 2 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – President Barack Obama addresses the crowd gathered on the National Mall. Hide Caption 3 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – A light rain falls as the Rev. Al Sharpton addresses the crowd. Hide Caption 4 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – Throngs fill the mall to mark the 50th anniversary of the march and one of the most memorable speeches of the 20th century. Hide Caption 5 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – Undeterred by the rain, a covered woman listens to the speakers. Hide Caption 6 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – Actor Jamie Foxx speaks to the thousands of people gathered on the mall. Hide Caption 7 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – Actor Forest Whitaker speaks. Hide Caption 8 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – Former President Bill Clinton addresses the crowd. Hide Caption 9 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – First lady Michelle Obama and President Barack Obama arrive at the Lincoln Memorial, where King spoke 50 years ago. Hide Caption 10 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – Performers from the Bahamas dance a Junkanoo during the festivities. Hide Caption 11 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – Traditional Maori dancers from New Zealand's Destiny Church perform during the commemoration. Hide Caption 12 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – The Rev. Joseph Lowery speaks in front of the Lincoln Memorial during the ceremony. Hide Caption 13 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – Attendees wear plastic rain ponchos as rain falls during the event. Hide Caption 14 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington 50th anniversary – A park ranger holds an umbrella as Oprah Winfrey speaks during the event. Hide Caption 15 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington: 50th anniversary – People gather at the Lincoln Memorial for the celebration. Hide Caption 16 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington: 50th anniversary – Trumpeter Geraldo Marshall opens Wednesday's ceremonies at the Lincoln Memorial. Hide Caption 17 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington: 50th anniversary – Stanley Samuels and Rita Samuels, from Atlanta,left, and Sammie Whiting-Ellis, from Washington, wait for the anniversary program to begin. Hide Caption 18 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington: 50th anniversary – Peter Yarrow, left, and Paul Stookey, right, of the folk trio Peter, Paul and Mary, stand with Trayvon Martin's parents, Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, at Wednesday's celebration. Hide Caption 19 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington: 50th anniversary – People brave light rain as they participate in the march's anniversary. Hide Caption 20 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington: 50th anniversary – A woman wearing a T-shirt commemorating the anniversary stands at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington. Hide Caption 21 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington: 50th anniversary – Country singer LeAnn Rimes sings "Amazing Grace" in preparation for her performance during the Let Freedom Ring ceremony, on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial in Washington an August 28. Hide Caption 22 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington: 50th anniversary – People march from Capitol Hill to the Lincoln Memorial on August 28. Hide Caption 23 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington: 50th anniversary – A member of the U.S. Army National Guard watches as thousands of people march from Capitol Hill to the Lincoln Memorial in Washington on August 28. Hide Caption 24 of 25 Photos: March on Washington: 50th anniversary March on Washington: 50th anniversary – John Mbugua and his son Giovanni, of San Jose, California, march with thousands of other people from Capitol Hill to the Lincoln Memorial, honoring the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington on August 28. Hide Caption 25 of 25"We were very afraid," she told CNN. "There were children on the bus, seniors and everything. Everybody was thrown out of their seats."She said she hit her head in the accident.