Story highlights Three of Nixon's aides documented their experiences with home movie camerasBetween 1969 and 1973, they filmed more than 500 reels of Super 8Footage seized by the FBI during Watergate is presented in "Our Nixon," along with interviewsHere, the film's producers explain how the home movies ended up in the public domain"Our Nixon" is mostly comprised of Super 8 home movies made by three of President Nixon's closest aides: H.R. "Bob" Haldeman, John Ehrlichman, and Dwight Chapin.A lot of people have asked us how we got our hands on their home movies, and whether we had to license them. The short answer is that we got the films from the Nixon Library (which is part of the National Archives and Records Administration), and we didn't have to license them because they are in the public domain.But how they ended up in the Nixon Library, why they are in the public domain, and what happened when we found out there were multiple copies of the whole collection (of widely varying quality!) is an interesting story.Haldeman, Ehrlichman and Chapin were enthusiastic amateur cinematographers. Between 1969 and 1973, they filmed more than 500 reels of Super 8. And the United States Navy Photographic Center fueled their enthusiasm by providing them with free film and processing, as well as copies of their films to share with each other. Dwight Chapin also told us that they had planned to donate copies to the official presidential records.Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career President Richard Nixon was in the White House from 1969 to 1974, when he became the first president to resign from office. He died at 81 in 1994. Here's a look at his life and legacy: Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Nixon was born in California on January 9, 1913. He is pictured at age 4. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career As a teenager, Nixon poses for a portrait with a violin in 1927. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Nixon, No. 12, and his football teammates at Whittier College pose for a picture in the 1930s. After graduating from Whittier, he attended law school at Duke University. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career During World War II, Nixon served as a lieutenant commander in the Navy. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Nixon, far right, stands next to John F. Kennedy and other freshmen members of Congress in 1947. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Republican presidential nominee Dwight D. Eisenhower and his running mate, Richard Nixon, with their wives at the Republican National Convention in Chicago on July 12, 1952. The Eisenhower-Nixon ticket won the election that year. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Vice President Nixon, right, and Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev, center, share a laugh during Nixon's visit to the Soviet Union in 1959. The two leaders engaged in an informal debate about the merits of capitalism versus communism at the opening of the American National Exhibition in Moscow. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Nixon poses for a portrait with his wife, Pat, and their daughters, Tricia and Julie, circa 1958. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Vice President Nixon and Sen. John F. Kennedy take part in a televised debate during their 1960 presidential campaign. Kennedy won the election that year. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Republican presidential candidate Nixon campaigns in New York in 1960. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Nixon addresses supporters after winning his party's nomination again in 1968. He went on to defeat the Democratic nominee, incumbent Vice President Hubert Humphrey. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career First lady Pat Nixon, center, watches as her husband is sworn in as the 37th president of the United States by Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl Warren on January 20, 1969. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Apollo 11 astronauts Neil Armstrong, Michael Collins and Buzz Aldrin laugh with President Nixon aboard the USS Hornet on July 24, 1969. The president was on hand to greet the astronauts after their splashdown in the Pacific. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career In 1970, Nixon announces the invasion of Cambodia to the American public. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai toasts with Nixon during his trip to China in February 1972. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career President Nixon, left, briefs the Congressional leadership in 1973 before his televised announcement of the ceasefire in the Vietnam War. From left are Senate Minority Leader Hugh Scott, House Majority Leader Tip O'Neill, Speaker of the House Carl Albert, Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield, House Minority Leader Gerald Ford, Vice President Spiro Agnew and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career In 1972, Nixon ran a successful re-election campaign. Gerald Ford, right, became his vice president when Spiro Agnew resigned in 1973. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Surrounded by family members, Nixon delivers his resignation speech on August 9, 1974. He stepped down after the Watergate scandal, which stemmed from a break-in at the Democratic National Committee offices during the 1972 campaign. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Nixon leaves the White House after his resignation over the Watergate scandal in 1974. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Former President Nixon is wired for a microphone on April 9, 1988, before the taping of the NBC television show "Meet the Press." It was his first appearance on the show since 1968. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Days after suffering a stroke, Nixon died in New York on April 22, 1994. A military honor guard carries Nixon's casket at the Stewart Air Force Base before the flight back to his hometown of Yorba Linda, California. His body was put on the same Boeing 707 that flew him home after his resignation. Hide Caption 22 of 22JUST WATCHED Richard Nixon discusses homosexuality Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Richard Nixon discusses homosexuality 01:22JUST WATCHED A typical Nixon day Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A typical Nixon day 01:31JUST WATCHED 'A political problem to the president' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'A political problem to the president' 01:28JUST WATCHED 'Our Nixon' coming to CNN Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Our Nixon' coming to CNN 00:15But the home movies took an unexpected path during the Watergate investigation, when the FBI confiscated the contents of Ehrlichman's office, including a box of a duplicate set (copies) of the home movies. Thus, the home movies were among the evidence given to the Watergate special prosecutor. (We are speculating, but we're going to go out a limb here and say they were not of any use at all in that investigation.)When Nixon resigned on August 9, 1974, he arranged to have his presidential papers sent to his home in San Clemente, California, assuming that they were his personal property. His assumption was warranted, as all his predecessors had taken possession of their papers after their terms of office.Attorney General William Saxbe agreed that the papers belonged to Nixon, but also concluded that the government had to respond to subpoenas covering the papers. Accordingly, Nixon agreed to deposit his papers with the administrator of General Services, with the understanding that some of the papers would eventually be donated to the United States. Under the agreement, Nixon retained title to his papers and could prohibit their use.Congress was concerned that Nixon would destroy papers relevant to the Watergate investigation, so it passed the Presidential Records and Materials Preservation Act of 1974 ("PRMPA"), 44 U.S.C. § 2111 (1988).The PRMPA authorized the administrator of General Services to take possession of and provide access to Nixon's presidential papers, including the secret White House tapes. Regulations issued under the PRMPA allowed interested parties to object to the release of particular documents, and authorized the administrator to return purely personal materials to Nixon.Nixon immediately challenged the constitutionality of the PRMPA. While the Supreme Court ultimately upheld the PRMPA, it did not determine whether Nixon was entitled to compensation for his papers. Nixon v. Adm'r of Gen. Services, 433 U.S. 425 (1977). In 1980, Nixon filed an action for just compensation under the Takings Clause, which he eventually won, after more than a decade of litigation.Nixon v. U.S., 978 F.2d 1269 (1992). In 2000, the Justice Department agreed to pay the Nixon estate $18 million.In response to the litigation over Nixon's presidential papers, Congress passed the Presidential Records Act of 1978 ("PRA"), 44 U.S.C. §§ 2201-07, which took effect on January 20, 1980. The PRA provides that Presidential and Vice-Presidential records are the property of the United States, and establishes procedures for their preservation, including eventual public access.As a result of the PRMPA, Nixon's presidential papers became the property of the United States and were deposited in the National Archives. The Nixon collection included 44 million documents, 3,700 hours of audiotapes, thousands of photographs, and -- getting back around to where we come into this -- the box of Super 8 films that came from Ehrlichman's office!Under the PRMPA regulations, purely personal material was removed from the home movies and returned to Haldeman, Ehrlichman and Chapin. Everything that remained was optically printed to 16mm color negative film for preservation.Serendipitously, we happened to know the guy (Bill Brand) who had been contracted to make these preservation prints. So, that's how we heard about the home movies. Just hearing about them from Bill was enough to make us think there was a very special film in there, just waiting for someone to make it.We paid for the National Archives to make standard definition video transfers of the preservation negative, and we began editing "Our Nixon" with these. They were pretty low resolution, being copies of copies, but we decided we could live with the quality since the content was so astonishing.But about a year into our edit, we learned that the Haldeman family had donated another set of copies of the Super 8 films. Consulting with Nixon Library archivist Ryan Pettigrew, we discovered that this collection contained originals rather than copies.The difference in image quality, detail and resolution was stunning! We had actually already locked picture with the lower-quality telecines, but we gulped hard and decided it was worth it, both in terms of money spent and additional work in post-production, to make a whole new set of scans so that "Our Nixon" would look as good as it could possibly be.This still shows the difference in image quality.Since at the time the Nixon Library did not have a budget allocated to apply their standard 16mm inter-negative preservation technique to this collection, and since we desperately wanted to use it in our film, we proposed to pay for archival-quality digital scans. We hired Jeff Kreines, inventor of the Kinetta film scanner, to travel to the Nixon Library and make the scans.He scanned every frame of the entire collection at a resolution much higher than HD video, and delivered them to us as digital files. This suited both our needs as filmmakers and the Nixon Library's interest in experimenting with an affordable method of digital film preservation.Of course, it also meant we had to manually replace every frame of our film with the new scans -- a saga unto itself -- but it was worth it!