Story highlights Official: Missouri woman killed in "rapidly rising waters" in McDonald CountySouth of Missouri capital, Interstate 44 is shut down because of floodingParts of Nashville, Tennessee, saw as much as 8 inches of rain early ThursdayWeather strikes as NOAA upgrades preseason hurricane predictionsA Missouri woman was killed in the state's flash flooding Thursday as inclement weather hammers several states in what forecasters predict will be a particularly nasty storm season.As rescue teams were performing 18 "swift water rescues" in McDonald County, Missouri, Thursday morning, the woman -- thought to be in her 60s -- was driving over a bridge when she was caught up in "rapidly rising waters," said Gregg Sweeten, the county's emergency management director.It was the second weather-related death in the state this week. Elijah Lee, 4, died Monday after 6 inches of rain fell on Pulaski County, about 140 miles southwest of St. Louis. The boy was found in a vehicle swept up in the floodwaters that caught the community along Mitchell Creek off guard, said Missouri Highway Patrol spokesman Sgt. Dan Crain.His mother, Jessica Lee, 23, of Waynesville is missing, and authorities and volunteers are using canine units in their search for her.Back in McDonald County, Sweeten said he was hopeful the Elk River, which runs through this county located on the Arkansas state line, about 80 miles southwest of Springfield, Missouri, would crest late Thursday night.Photos: Photos: The week in weather Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – Jamaica's Usain Bolt wins the 100-meter final at the 2013 IAAF World Championships on August 11 as lightning flashes across the Moscow skies. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – Afghan villagers check out damage inside their house in the Shakardara district of Kabul province on Sunday, August 11, after flash floods. More than 20 people have died in the area around the Afghan capital after heavy rainfall and flooding. Click through to see other images of weather around the world: Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – Rainy weather doesn't deter visitors to the Shwedagon Pagoda in Yangon, Myanmar, on August 11. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A man sits next to his house in a flooded street outside Khartoum, Sudan, on Saturday, August 10. Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – Hindu pilgrims sit on a partially submerged bench outside the Bade Hanuman Temple as water from the Ganges and Yamuna rivers recedes in Allahabad, India, on August 10. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – Lightning strikes over San Pietro mountain in the French Mediterranean Island of Corsica on Friday, August 9. Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A farmer checks his parched rice fields caused by a lingering drought in the Pixianling Village in southern China on August 9. Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – Children stay cool at a public water fountain at a shopping mall in Beijing on August 9. Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – Players for minor league baseball team the Batavia Muckdogs try to escape a flooded dugout on a bridge of chairs during a rainstorm Thursday, August 8. The unplayable field conditions led to the cancellation of the game in Batavia, New York. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A tour bus kicks up dust during a sunny day at Denali National Park in Alaska on August 8. Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – People cool off at a water park in Shanghai, China, on August 8 as temperatures soar above 100 degrees Fahrenheit. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – Floodwaters surround Mitchell United Methodist Church at a levee in Hutchinson, Kansas , on August 8. Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A man takes cover under a plastic sheet during a rain shower in New Delhi on August 8. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A giant panda lies next to a block of ice to cool off at the Wuhan Zoo in China's Hubei province on Wednesday, August 7, as temperatures soar above 100 degrees Fahrenheit. Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A rainbow appears in the skies above a Hong Kong office building on August 7. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A street vendor steers clear of the hot sun under an inflatable boat in Zhitkovichi, Belarus, on August 7. Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A woman uses a parasol to block the sun's rays at the Bund, a popular tourist spot in Shanghai, China, on August 7. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A person dangles from a power line before diving into the Ganges River in Allahabad, India, on Tuesday, August 6, after heavy monsoon rains. Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A man takes a nap at a recreation area in Salt Springs, Florida, on August 6. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A boy jumps into the Zegrze Lake near Warsaw, Poland, on August 6 to cool off during a heatwave. Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A deer enjoys a cooling bath in Aurach, Austria, on Monday, August 5. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A boy takes in the scenery at Malvarrosa Beach in Valencia, Spain, on the Mediterranean on Monday, August 5. Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Photos: The week in weather The week in weather – A boy carries a dog as he stands on the high ground of the Ravi River in Lahore, Pakistan , on August 5. Hide Caption 23 of 23South of the capital, Jefferson City, Interstate 44 was shut down because of high water. It's since been reopened.Forecasters warn that areas along the Gasconade River could see record water levels, and widespread flooding is expected to continue in Missouri and Kansas into the weekend.Southern Missouri has witnessed widespread flash flooding as parts of 12 Midwestern and Eastern states experienced some sort of flood watch or warning Thursday.Nashville, Tennessee, was one of the hardest hit, as parts of the city saw as many as 8 inches of rain overnight and in the morning. Another 1 to 3 inches were expected Thursday afternoon and evening, according to forecasters.A flash flood emergency had been issued for much of the city earlier Thursday, and a flash flood warning remains in place until the afternoon.Atlanta also is under a flash flood warning until Thursday evening, and flooding is possible across much of Georgia, South Carolina and North Carolina.The weather struck as the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration revised its preseason hurricane forecast to say there is a 70% chance of an "above-normal" Atlantic hurricane season.Where a normal season might bring six hurricanes, three of them above Category 3 or higher, this season could bring as many nine hurricanes, and five of them could be major, the NOAA says.The NOAA says the season, which runs through November, could yield as many as 19 named storms.