Story highlights Authorities search Nevada home of Heidi FleissThey reportedly find 392 marijuana plants and exotic birdsShe said she was growing plants for cooperative, sheriff's officials sayOnce known as the "Hollywood Madam," Heidi Fleiss in recent years has become known as a fan of exotic birds.That interest, parlayed into a 2011 Animal Planet reality show, "Heidi Fleiss: Prostitutes to Parrots," apparently helped spare Fleiss from handcuffs after authorities said they found nearly 400 marijuana plants growing at her residence in Pahrump, Nevada.A deputy did not arrest Fleiss because she had exotic birds valued at more than $200,000, Nye County Sheriff Anthony De Meo told CNN on Tuesday."We don't have facilities for exotic birds, and they are pretty rare and very expensive," the sheriff said.Authorities said they sent their report to the district attorney for charges to be filed.A deputy went to the home on August 7 to look for another woman wanted on an arrest warrant. The officer, finding the front door open and no one responding, went to the rear of the main residence and spied some of the plants, the sheriff's department said in a statement.JUST WATCHED 2011: Fleiss loves Lohan's brilliant idea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2011: Fleiss loves Lohan's brilliant idea 00:27Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Comedic actor Chris Tucker has been able to reach a deal with the IRS after the government filed a $2.5 million tax lien against him. According to a rep for Tucker, the "Silver Linings Playbook" star worked out the resolution on Friday, August 29, leading to a settlement. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Vanessa Williams might soon be writing a very big check. The IRS has filed a tax lien against the actress, saying that she owes $369,249 to the federal government for her earnings in 2011. At the time, Williams was working on the ABC prime-time soap "Desperate Housewives." Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Actor Mekhi Phifer has filed for bankruptcy, according to court papers obtained by CNN. The "Divergent" star is reportedly $1.3 million in debt, with $1.2 million of that being in back taxes. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Actress Teri Polo, from "Meet the Parents" and ABC Family's "The Fosters," filed for bankruptcy in April. According to TMZ , Polo owes about $772,000 in back taxes and more than $36,000 in credit card debt. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Singer Aaron Carter filed a bankruptcy petition to shed more than $2 million in debt, mostly taxes owed from his days as a teen sensation, his publicist told CNN in November. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Singer Lauryn Hill was sentenced to three months in prison in May 2013. She told a judge she intended to pay taxes but it was just a question of when. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Judy Garland's tax debt forced her to do something she vowed she would never do: host a television show. To pay the IRS for delinquent taxes dating back a decade, the singer/actress signed a $24 million deal with CBS for "The Judy Garland Show" in 1962. Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Willie Nelson cleared his $32 million tax debt by selling assets and an album titled "The IRS Tapes: Who'll Buy My Memories?" Nelson discovered in 1990 that his accountants had not fully paid his taxes -- a find made tougher by investment losses in the 1980s. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – In 1990, baseball legend Pete Rose spent five months in prison for tax evasion convictions stemming from money made selling autographs and memorabilia. The tax man returned to his door in 2004 with a $1 million lien for back taxes. Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Lil' Kim blamed her accountant when her tax troubles arose in 2005. Seven years later, the rapper still had to pay more than $1 million to the government. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – While O.J. Simpson has known bigger legal problems, delinquent taxes are on the list. The former football star, who's serving a long prison sentence in Nevada, owed the IRS and the state of California hundreds of thousands of dollars, according to court documents. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Comedian Sinbad racked up a large unpaid tax bill, owing $8 million to the IRS for income from 1998 to 2006, according to an IRS court filing in 2012. California officials also reported that he owed the state $2 million. After filing for bankruptcy and selling his home, Sinbad used the tax troubles as material for a reality show. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Actor Nicolas Cage revealed in 2010 that he owed $14 million in back taxes, which he has been working to pay off since. A federal tax lien said he owed $6.2 million from income in 2007. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Wesley Snipes walked out of a federal prison in April 2013 after serving a tax evasion sentence that began in December 2010. The actor claimed that he was not legally obligated to pay federal taxes, an argument a jury did not buy. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Rapper Jeffrey Atkins, also known as Ja Rule, was sentenced to 28 months in prison in July 2011 for failing to file tax returns with the IRS. Atkins admitted that he did not file his taxes for five years. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Ozzy Osbourne and his wife, Sharon, were hit with a federal tax lien in April 2011 on one of their Los Angeles homes. The couple owed $1.7 million in back taxes from 2008 and 2009. Sharon Osbourne initially blamed an accountant but later took personal responsibility. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Dionne Warwick filed for bankruptcy in March 2013, citing more than $10 million in tax debt dating to 1991. Her publicist blamed "negligent and gross financial mismanagement." Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – Actress Pamela Anderson was hit by a big back-tax bill in December 2012, totaling about $370,000. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: Photos: Celebrity tax woes Celebrity tax woes – In 1997, "Hollywood Madam" Heidi Fleiss was sentenced to 30 months in a federal prison for convictions on conspiracy, tax evasion and money laundering relating to a high-priced prostitution ring. She served 20 months. Hide Caption 19 of 19Officers encountered Fleiss, who allegedly gave them consent to search another area.She told detectives she was growing the plants to sell to a cooperative in Las Vegas, about 55 miles to the east, authorities said."Ms. Fleiss could not produce the necessary documentation to support this. Later she admitted, in a roundabout way, that she was going to get a license because she did not have one," the statement said.Another factor in not arresting Fleiss was her consent to a search without a warrant and the fact that she was cooperative, the department said.A total of 392 suspected marijuana plants were counted, authorities said.Fleiss grabbed headlines in the 1990s after she was arrested in connection with a high-priced prostitution ring serving Tinseltown's rich and famous.CNN was unable Tuesday to find a phone listing for the residence. There was no answer at what is believed to be Fleiss' mobile number. CNN also left a message with a publicist known to represent her in 2011.