Story highlights Minnesota and Rhode Island become the latest among 13 states to allow same-sex marriageCouples committed to each other for years wed in MinnesotaMinneapolis' mayor weds 42 couples at the stroke of midnightPoll: 53% of Americans think same-sex unions should be legalThey've been a couple for two years and are eager to raise two children together. But it wasn't until Thursday that Holli Bartelt and Amy Petrich were allowed to legally wed.They wasted no time.They made plans to tie the knot one minute after a law permitting gay marriage went into effect in their home state of Minnesota.At 12 a.m. Thursday, Minnesota and Rhode Island officially became the latest among 13 states -- plus the District of Columbia -- to allow same-sex marriage. Both states passed applicable laws in May.Seven more states allow civil unions between same-sex couples, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures , but six of those have laws against gay marriage.Marriage is defined by law as a "relationship between a man and a woman" in 29 states.Only New Mexico has no laws pertaining to same-sex marriage or civil unions on the books, NCSL says.The slow but steady rise in the number of states allowing same-sex couples to wed is a sign that the United States is gradually marching toward the acceptance of these unions.Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Andrea Taylor, left, and Sallee Taylor kiss during their wedding in West Hollywood, California, on Monday, July 1, as Sallee Taylor's daughter Grace Meier, right, looks on. The city of West Hollywood offered civil marriage ceremonies for same-sex couples free of charge Monday. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – City officials who will perform same-sex marriages are sworn in before conducting wedding ceremonies in West Hollywood on July 1. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Jose Guerrero, left, and Patrick Rodriguez chat before their wedding ceremony in West Hollywood on July 1. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Same-sex couples kiss on the steps of the the Old Orange County Courthouse in Santa Ana, California, on July 1. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Naomi Hendrix, right, and Rio Waller exchange wedding vows in a small garden across from the Fresno County Clerk's office in California on June 1. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Naomi Hendrix, right, and Rio Waller kiss right after they are pronounced married in Fresno on June 1. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Faith Kassan, left, and her partner, Jennifer Ehrman, kiss before their wedding ceremony in West Hollywood on July 1. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Cynthia Wides, right, and Elizabeth Carey file for a marriage certificate at City Hall in San Francisco on Saturday, June 29. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Diane Meier, left, and Julie Thompson walk down the grand staircase at San Francisco City Hall after getting married on June 29. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Ky Choi, left, and Ashlee Meyer kiss before getting married on June 29. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Sandy Stier, left, exchanges wedding vows with Kris Perry during a ceremony presided over by California Attorney General Kamala Harris at City Hall in San Francisco on Friday, June 28. Stier and Perry were two of the four lead plaintiffs in the U.S. Supreme Court case that overturned California's same-sex marriage ban. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – A couple come out of City Hall after obtaining their marriage license in San Francisco on Friday, June 28. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – A chorus sings for newlyweds at City Hall in San Francisco on June 28. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Jeff Zarillo, left, and Paul Katami, plaintiffs in the California case against Proposition 8, react after they are married by Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa at Los Angeles City Hall on June 28. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Couples fill out license applications as they wait in line at the San Francisco City Hall on June 28. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Stefanie Berks, left, touches her pregnant partner, Daisy Boyd, before their marriage at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau in New York on June 28. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Jen Rainin, left, laughs as her wife, Frances Stevens, holds up their dog, Punum, after they were married in San Fransisco on June 28. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Jeff Foote, left, and Cosgrove Norstadt kiss during their wedding on San Francisco on June 28. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Stefanie Berks, center, and Daisy Boyd, right, view their marriage certificate with a friend after their ceremony in the east chapel at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau on June 28. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Suzanne Hufft, left, and Val Robb exchange vows as they are married at San Francisco City Hall on June 28. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – U.S. Air Force Senior Airman Shyla Smith, right, and Courtney Burdeshaw hold hands in the west chapel during their wedding ceremony at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau on Thursday, June 27. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Smith and Burdeshaw hold hands while waiting to get married at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau on June 27. Hide Caption 22 of 22JUST WATCHED Betty Crocker supports same-sex marriage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Betty Crocker supports same-sex marriage 01:22JUST WATCHED Pennsylvania man adopts his partner Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pennsylvania man adopts his partner 06:29JUST WATCHED Lesbian: It's my right not to testify Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lesbian: It's my right not to testify 02:07According to a May Gallup Poll, 53% of Americans now think same-sex unions should be legal. In 1996, that number was 27%.Going to the chapelBartelt and Petrich exchanged vows at 12:01 a.m. at the wedding chapel in the Mall of America in Bloomington, a particularly romantic spot for the two.They recently got engaged in a photo booth there, a statement from the mall said.They strode to the altar together decked out in white. Petrich wore a pant suit, Bartelt a long gown.Bartelt's two children, ages 9 and 10, joined them, wearing blue and orange colors, which stand for marriage equality.The were pronounced "wife and wife."They were among the first same sex couples to marry in the state -- but they had competition.Midnight matrimonyRight at midnight, Mayor R.T. Rybak of Minneapolis presided over the unions of 42 same-sex couples at city hall, CNN affiliate KARE reported.The couples were scheduled to be at the altar early, so Rybak could move the ceremony along in time for the first wedding vows to be over right when the clock struck 12.The mayor studied up on the couples beforehand to keep things personal during the mass wedding."I never want to have a day where it feels like a conveyor belt of love," Rybak told CNN affiliate WCCOIn St. Paul, Reid Bordson and Paul Nolle joined the wave of midnight matrimony.They have been a committed couple for 13 years and waited a long time for this moment. But for someone else, the wait may have felt even longer.Bordson and Nolle are raising a 2-year-old daughter together."For her to know that we're able to be married like other families is a really big deal," Bordson told KARE, choking back tears.Nolle reached for his hand.Island weddingIn Rhode Island, the first marriages were planned for Thursday morning.The sponsor of the state's same-sex marriage law, Sen. Donna Nesselbush, plans to be at Pawtucket City Hall to greet them, she told CNN affiliate WPRI"As the only openly gay senator and as the prime sponsor of the bill in the Senate, (Thursday) is a day that I wish to remember both professionally and personally," she said.She wants the day to be about love and commitment.