Every weekday morning, we'll hit the top five stories of the day and clue you in on a few other buzzy items.1. EGYPT UNRESTWelcome to the new world, same as the old world:Egypt is under a state of emergency that bars people from gathering without permission and lets police jail them indefinitely. It's the kind of repressive police state that Egyptians lived under for 30 years under Hosni Mubarak before he was thrown out of office.Now, after the bloodiest day since that revolution, the military-government-in-civilian-garbs has put it back in place. Its aim is to contain supporters of the democratically elected post-Mubarak President Mohamed Morsy, who feel their victory was stolen when he was ousted. The Muslim Brotherhood says it's going to keep protesting.Will the U.S. - the largest aid donor to Egypt -- keep the money flowing?2. HANNAH ANDERSONGrisly scene, horrific deaths:Firefighters found Christina Anderson face down in a garage. She was dead, covered with a tarp, a crowbar next to her body. Near her, a dog shot in the head. The burned body of her son, Ethan, was discovered in what was left of the burned house.In warrants that were unsealed yesterday, police say James DiMaggio tortured and killed the mother and son, then set the house and garage on fire - and abducted 16-year-old Hannah Anderson.Another interesting detail: DiMaggio and Hannah exchanged 13 phone calls on the day she was taken before their phones went silent.3. UPS CRASHCause up in the air:One witness says he thought he heard an engine backfire. Another says she believes the plane was sputtering as it flew over her home. A UPS plane crashed before dawn in Birmingham, Alabama, yesterday, killing the two pilots.Investigators don't have much to go on yet, as they have to wait for the scene to cool down before they go in to get the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder from the wreckage.They did say that there were no distress calls before the plane went down a half-mile from the runway.4. BRADLEY MANNING'I only wanted to help people':Bradley Manning had his say yesterday during the sentencing phase of his court martial. And to the disappointment of his supporters, the soft-spoken Army private apologized for leaking tens of thousands of pages of classified documents.He told the judge that he should have worked within the Army's system. He also said that when he sent the documents to WikiLeaks, he was dealing with personal issues, one of them being his gender identity crisis. WikiLeaks responded to the news by saying Manning's statement had been "extracted by force."5. MICHAEL JACKSON TRIALThe wife speaks:Choking back tears, Michael Jackson's ex-wife told jurors that doctors tried to "outbid" one another and forced the pop icon to take what she says were dangerous and unnecessary drugs. "Michael had a very low pain tolerance, and his fear of pain was incredible. And I think that doctors took advantage of him that way," Debbie Rowe said.She said Jackson started taking pain meds after he was burned in 1984 while making a commercial for Pepsi. She'll return to the stand today, which will be the 70th day of testimony of the trial that pits the Jackson family against the King of Pop's concert promoter.Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of other stories that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.$36 a day? Per kid?:Maybe you can't put a price on the joy a child brings to your life, but you can put one on how much it'll cost you to raise your loved one - $241,080. And that's before college! The U.S. Department of Agriculture says the price has gone up 3% in just two years, and you can blame that on the costs of health care, educations and child care."A sweet and generous soul:"Her friends remember Gia Allemand as a pageant contestant turned reality TV show star with a big smile and a cheerful attitude. They were stunned to learn Allemand, 29, died yesterday, two days after an apparent suicide attempt. Her boyfriend, NBA player Ryan Anderson, said she was the most beautiful person - outside and inside -- that he had ever known.Up in smoke:When you tweet that you want someone to bring you a joint at work and the cops reply, you have two options. You can mock the police or you can play it off as a joke. Make that three options. You can also pack up your stuff, because YOU'RE FIRED from your job. Right, Canadian man who goes (or went) by the Twitter handle @Sunith_DB8R?Literally a different meaning:This is going to give grammarians a headache, literalists a migraine and language nerds a nervous breakdown. The definition of literally is no longer the literal definition of literally. Several dictionaries have also added the informal, non-literal definition. Hooray for Dictionary.com who bucked the trend.There you go. All you need to know to get an early start to your morning.