Story highlights New York newspaper offers $10,000 for information leading to arrest and convictionSchumer calls act a "dagger in the heart"Someone wrote the N-word and drew a swastika on the statueRobinson was the first African-American player in the major leaguesA New York newspaper is offering a $10,000 reward for information leading to the "lowlife" who defaced a statue of Jackie Robinson outside the Brooklyn Cyclones baseball stadium.Vandals marked racial slurs and symbols on the sculpture of Robinson and teammate Pee Wee Reese sometime between the end of the Cyclones game Tuesday night and 7 a.m. Wednesday, according to a spokesman for the New York City Police Department.A swastika, "anti-Semitic comments" and the N-word were written in black marker on the statue and its base, officials said.The NYPD's Hate Crimes Task Force is investigating the matter as a possible bias incident. The Cyclones and police are reviewing security camera video, hoping it will lead them to a suspect or suspects, said Brooklyn Cyclones director of communications Billy Harner.No arrests have been made.The New York Daily News on its front page Thursday kicked off a hunt for the "lowlife who scrawled epithets" on the statue.Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson – Matt Thornton, left, and Alex Rios of the Chicago White Sox wait in the outfield during batting practice before the start of the game against the Toronto Blue Jays at Rogers Centre on Monday, April 15, in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. All baseball players wore jerseys with No. 42 in honor of Jackie Robinson Day . The Brooklyn Dodgers great, whose story is told in the new movie "42," was the first African-American to play Major League Baseball in the modern era. Robinson broke the color barrier on April 15, 1947. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson – Chris Parmelee, right, of the Minnesota Twins congratulates teammate Joe Mauer on scoring a run against the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim at Target Field in Minneapolis. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson – Clint Barmes of the Pittsburgh Pirates turns a double play in the fifth inning against Pete Kozma of the St. Louis Cardinals at PNC Park in Pittsburgh. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson – Mike Trout, left, of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim congratulates teammate Peter Bourjos on a solo home run against the Minnesota Twins at Target Field in Minneapolis. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson – Pitcher Jordan Zimmermann of the Washington Nationals throws against the Miami Marlins at Marlins Park in Miami. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson – Players from the Washington Nationals stand for a moment of silence wearing Jackie Robinson's No. 42 before playing against the Miami Marlins at Marlins Park. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson – Home plate umpire Tony Randazzo stands on the field wearing No. 42 during the game between the Chicago White Sox and Toronto Blue Jays. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson – James McDonald, right, of the Pittsburgh Pirates is pulled from the game in the second inning as teammate Pedro Alvarez stands by his side at PNC Park in Pittsburgh. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson – Shin-Soo Choo of the Cincinnati Reds hits a single during the game agianst the Philadelphia Phillies at Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson – Jonny Gomes, left, and Jacoby Ellsbury of the Boston Red Sox stand for the national anthem before a game against the Tampa Bay Rays on at Fenway Park in Boston. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson – Jacoby Ellsbury of the Boston Red Sox hits a triple against the Tampa Bay Rays in the first inning on April 15. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson – Matt Joyce of the Tampa Bay Rays fails to catch a hit by Boston's Stephen Drew. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Photos: MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson MLB celebrates Jackie Robinson – Ryan Roberts of Tampa Bay tags Boston's Jarrod Saltalamacchia out at second base to end the seventh inning. Hide Caption 13 of 13Photos: LIFE gallery: Jackie Robinson Photos: LIFE gallery: Jackie Robinson Jackie Robinson: American Icon – Hoping to distract Yankee catcher Yogi Berra and disrupt the pitcher, Bob Turley, Jackie Robinson dances off of third base during the third game of the 1955 World Series at Ebbets Field. Brooklyn won the game, 8-3, and went on to win the Series.See the entire gallery of photos on LIFE.com Hide Caption 1 of 5 Photos: LIFE gallery: Jackie Robinson Jackie Robinson: American Icon – In this previously unpublished image, Jackie Robinson relaxes between takes on the set of the 1950 biopic, "The Jackie Robinson Story," in which he starred as himself. Hide Caption 2 of 5 Photos: LIFE gallery: Jackie Robinson Jackie Robinson: American Icon – Brooklyn manager Charlie Dressen, Iraq's 17-year-old King Faisal II (invited to the U.S. by President Truman) and Jackie Robinson chat in the Dodger dugout in 1952. The caption — in the odd, clipped language LIFE employed at the time — that accompanied this picture when it ran in LIFE: "Baseball badinage in Dodger dugout pleased king until his uncle made him remove ball cap as undignified. 'I guess I'd better leave now,' said king." Hide Caption 3 of 5 Photos: LIFE gallery: Jackie Robinson Jackie Robinson: American Icon – Jackie Robinson slashes a base hit during Game 6 of the 1955 World Series. Hide Caption 4 of 5 Photos: LIFE gallery: Jackie Robinson Jackie Robinson: American Icon – Yogi Berra takes issue with the umpire's "safe" call after Jackie Robinson's electrifying steal of home in Game 1 of the 1955 World Series. Today, Berra is often regarded a cuddly old ambassador for baseball. Back then, when the game was on the line, Yogi Berra was known as a bad, bad man.See the entire gallery of photos on LIFE.com Hide Caption 5 of 5Photos: Photos: Jackie Robinson's birthplace Photos: Photos: Jackie Robinson's birthplace The birthplace of Jackie Robinson – Jackie Robinson was born in 1919 into a family of sharecroppers in Cairo, Georgia, and went on to become the first black player in the modern era of Major League Baseball. The local Boys and Girls Club was recently named after him. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Photos: Jackie Robinson's birthplace The birthplace of Jackie Robinson – Jack Hadley founded a black history museum in Thomasville, Georgia, that's filled with hundreds of photographs and memorabilia featuring African-American politicians, soldiers and athletes. There's a section dedicated to Jackie Robinson. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Photos: Jackie Robinson's birthplace The birthplace of Jackie Robinson – Hadley points out a front-page story in black-owned Pittsburgh Courier about Jackie Robinson, who became a Brooklyn Dodger in 1947. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Photos: Jackie Robinson's birthplace The birthplace of Jackie Robinson – The Cairo High School baseball team waits between innings during a game against Americus-Sumter High School. The field at the school is named after Robinson. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Photos: Jackie Robinson's birthplace The birthplace of Jackie Robinson – A small plaque marks Jackie Robinson Field at Cairo High School. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Photos: Jackie Robinson's birthplace The birthplace of Jackie Robinson – Charles Renaud, a former county commissioner, spearheaded the effort to name the Boys and Girls Club in Cairo after Robinson. He says the community should learn from a past of racial animosity and move forward for the greater good of a younger generation. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Photos: Jackie Robinson's birthplace The birthplace of Jackie Robinson – Aniyah Peters, 13, is a member of the Jackie Robinson Boys and Girls Club. She says Robinson's achievements inspire her to pursue her dreams. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Photos: Jackie Robinson's birthplace The birthplace of Jackie Robinson – Robinson's relative Dr. Linda Walden had wanted a statue of Jackie Robinson erected on the Grady County Courthouse lawn. That didn't happen. Currently, there's a monument honoring Confederate soldiers. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Photos: Jackie Robinson's birthplace The birthplace of Jackie Robinson – Dr. Linda Walden moved back to Cairo in 1996 and has tried for years to get the community to acknowledge and commemorate Robinson's legacy. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Photos: Jackie Robinson's birthplace The birthplace of Jackie Robinson – A dilapidated chimney is all that remains of Jackie Robinson's family home in rural Grady County. The house burned down in 1996, but the property is owned and maintained by his cousin Linda Walden. Hide Caption 10 of 10In red, slanted letters it posted a $10,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the perpetrator.The statue immortalizes a moment of racial progress in American history in the 1940s, depicting the instant when Reese, who is white, walked over to Robinson and put an arm around him as the first African-American player in the big leagues endured racial slurs from the stands. According to the legend, the crowds fell silent at the show of solidarity.The newspaper showed a photograph of the defaced statue, with parts of the epithets blurred.The parks department has already managed to remove the majority of the graffiti, Harner said."Almost every Saturday morning I stop by the statue on my bike, and am deeply moved each time," U.S. Sen. Chuck Schumer said in a statement."Defacing the Jackie Robinson statue is a dagger in the heart to everything America stands for, and I hope those who are responsible are caught, punished, and taught why what they did is so disgusting and offensive."The stadium is just steps away from Coney Island's famous boardwalk. The team is the minor league club associated with Major League Baseball's New York Mets franchise.Robinson was the first African-American baseball player to play with a modern-era Major League Baseball team, the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947.His jersey number, 42, was retired in 1997, though it is still worn by New York Yankees closer, Mariano Rivera.