Story highlights On Saturday,16-year-old Hannah Anderson was found and is safe, authorities sayHer alleged captor, James DiMaggio, is dead, police sayThe teen's brother and mother were killed in a fire at their family homeThe man accused of kidnapping 16-year-old Hannah Anderson and murdering her mother and brother was killed on Saturday, bringing to an end a manhunt that spanned from California to Idaho, authorities said.Hannah was found alive, and she was taken to an area hospital for an evaluation, authorities said.Here's a look at the timeline of the case:Saturday, August 3Hannah is last seen at cheerleading practice near her home in San Diego County.Sunday, August 4Authorities in Southern California issue a statewide Amber Alert via cell phone for Hannah and her 8-year-old brother, Ethan, after they are reported missing by their grandparents, the same day DiMaggio's home was burned.While extinguishing the house fire, personnel discover the body of the children's mother, Christina Anderson, 42, of Lakeside, California.They also recover the badly burned remains of a child and the body of a dog.Monday, August 5The San Diego County Sheriff's Office releases several photos of DiMaggio, saying they believe he is driving a blue, four-door Nissan Versa with California license plate 6WCU986.Tuesday, August 6"Jim, I can't fathom what you were thinking. The damage is done. I'm begging you to let my daughter go. You've taken everything else," he tells reporters. "Hannah, we all love you very much. If you have a chance, you take it, you run. You'll be found."Anderson does not mention Ethan in his remarks, prompting a reporter to ask San Diego Sheriff's Department Lt. Glenn Giannantonio whether the child's remains might be those of the boy.Giannantonio says the remains have not been identified.Wednesday, August 7The search for DiMaggio expands from California to other states as tips pour in to San Diego authorities with possible sightings of DiMaggio, Hannah and Ethan.Thursday, August 8Authorities announce DiMaggio's car has been found after a man on horseback reported he had a brief conversation with two campers in the Idaho wilderness on Wednesday.Friday, August 9San Diego authorities formally confirm the remains of the child found inside the burned out home were those of Ethan.DiMaggio's car is discovered in a rugged mountain area in central Idaho. The car was hidden by brush and the license plates removed.About 250 law enforcement personnel -- among them about 150 FBI agents, in addition to state, county and other federal agents -- converge on the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness, about 15 miles outside Cascade, Idaho, looking for the teenage girl and DiMaggio.Saturday, August 10Authorities say they spotted the campsite being used by DiMaggio from the air. They sent in law enforcement personnel on foot, San Diego County Sheriff Bill Gore tells reporters.An FBI tactical agent killed DiMaggio at about 5:15 p.m. local time during a confrontation near Morehead Lake, the sheriff says.Hannah has been found alive and taken to an area hospital for an evaluation, he says.