(CNN) Thousands protesting Donald Trump's victory in the presidential election took to the streets for a third night of demonstrations and vigils in several US cities.An anti-Trump rally in Portland, Oregon, revved up as protesters confronted police Thursday night. What started out as a peaceful march, with more than 4,000 people, quickly turned violent.Over the course of the evening, "anarchists" in the crowd threw objects at officers, vandalized local businesses and damaged cars, Portland Police Sgt. Pete Simpson said.Police publicly declared a "riot" due to "extensive criminal and dangerous behavior" and called the protest "unlawful," according to posts on the department's Twitter page.The crowd was dispersed using "less lethal munitions" and at least 26 protesters were arrested, police said.Police have deployed less lethal munitions such as OC spray and vapor (pepper spray), rubber ball distraction devices, rubber baton rounds. — Portland Police (@PortlandPolice) November 11, 2016Protests and marches continued in other US cities including Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Denver, Minneapolis, Baltimore, Dallas and Oakland, California.A protester kicks a bank's window during Thurdsay night's protest in Portland.The mood in the streets where protesters marched was as varied as the locations.Some of the roughly 1,000 protesters in Oakland broke store windows, left graffiti on buildings and threw M-80 firecrackers, Molotov cocktails and bottles at police officers, authorities said.Eleven people were arrested in Oakland, including someone who had seven Molotov cocktails in his possession, police said. Some of those arrested are accused of assaulting police officers.In Los Angeles, about 185 protesters were arrested Thursday night into Friday morning, police Officer Norma Eisenman said -- including some on suspicion of blocking roads, and minors accused of violating curfew.People gathered outside Los Angeles' City Hall chanting "not my president." As in Oakland, there were reports of people throwing rocks and bottles at police officers and vandalizing police cars with graffiti, CNN affiliate ABC reported . At least one person was held on suspicion of assaulting an officer, Eisenman said.Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Nearly 1,000 students and faculty members at Rutgers University staged a rally in downtown New Brunswick, New Jersey, to protest President-elect Donald Trump on Wednesday, November 16. At least 25 US cities have seen protests since Trump won the presidential election. Hide Caption 1 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Students hold signs in front of the Supreme Court in Washington during a protest on Tuesday, November 15. Hide Caption 2 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Activists use a banner to block traffic on Interstate 395 during an anti-Trump protest in Washington on Monday, November 14. Hide Caption 3 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Anti-Trump protesters in New York hung an upside-down American flag from the side of the Manhattan Bridge on November 14. Hide Caption 4 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Demonstrators distribute safety pins as a sign of solidarity against intolerance during a rally against Trump in New York on Saturday, November 12. Hide Caption 5 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Demonstrators march to Trump Tower in Chicago on November 12. Hide Caption 6 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election People protest Trump during a march in downtown Miami on Friday, November 11. Hide Caption 7 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Hundreds of Trump protesters hold a demonstration in New York's Washington Square Park on November 11. Hide Caption 8 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election A man walks by anti-Trump graffiti in downtown Oakland, California, on November 11. Thousands of protesters have wreaked havoc on the city during anti-Trump marches, causing vandalism, fires and destruction of property. Hide Caption 9 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election A protester kicks the window of a Bank of America branch in Portland, Oregon, on November 10. What started out as a peaceful march with more than 4,000 people quickly turned violent. Portland police publicly declared a "riot" because of "extensive criminal and dangerous behavior," according to posts on the department's Twitter page. Hide Caption 10 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Demonstrators flood the 101 Freeway in Los Angeles on November 10. Hide Caption 11 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Police officers stand guard as they slowly clear Trump protesters from the 101 Freeway in Los Angeles on November 10. Hide Caption 12 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Demonstrators protest in Denver on November 10. Hide Caption 13 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Police officers look on as someone protests in Portland on November 10. Hide Caption 14 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Trump protesters march toward Interstate 94 in Minneapolis on November 10. Hide Caption 15 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Numerous cars at a Toyota dealership were smashed as people protested in Portland on November 10. Hide Caption 16 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Trump protesters chant outside the White House on November 10. Hide Caption 17 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Protesters set an effigy of Trump on fire outside Los Angeles City Hall on Wednesday, November 9. Hide Caption 18 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Demonstrators march down Second Avenue in Seattle on November 9. Hide Caption 19 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Police respond to a fire set by anti-Trump protesters in Oakland, California, on November 9. Police said some protesters threw Molotov cocktails, rocks and fireworks at officers. Hide Caption 20 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Protesters in Chicago display anti-Trump signs near the Trump International Hotel and Tower on November 9. Hide Caption 21 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Trump protesters take to the streets in Philadelphia on November 9. Hide Caption 22 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Thousands march down Fifth Avenue in New York on November 9. Authorities estimated as many as 5,000 people protested Trump's victory outside Trump Tower. Hide Caption 23 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Protesters rally against Trump in New York's Union Square on November 9. Hide Caption 24 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Demonstrators march past Radio City Music Hall in New York on November 9. Hide Caption 25 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election People listen to speakers protesting Trump's election in Seattle on November 9. Hide Caption 26 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election A woman argues with police officers during a protest in New York on November 9. Erin Michelle Threlfall, the woman pictured, told The Huffington Post she was attempting to intervene on behalf of a man she says the police were beating. Hide Caption 27 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Sasha Savenko, left, and Sydney Kane join thousands of protesters in Seattle on November 9. Hide Caption 28 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Crowds rally outside Trump Tower in New York on November 9. Hide Caption 29 of 30 Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election Charles Watkins speaks out at an anti-Trump protest in Denver on November 9. Hide Caption 30 of 30Outside the White House on Thursday night, protesters gathered with signs, some of which said "Donald Trump is a racist."Many demonstrations were peaceful, if not tense and somber.In Philadelphia, protester Deb Bentzel said that "as a woman and someone who believes all people, regardless of their race, religion or citizenship status should be supported and embraced by this country," she marched to reject "the racism, hate, misogyny and fear that this man (Trump) projects and fosters in others."In Minneapolis, protester Lauren Peck shared similar sentiments as she gathered with others at the Humphrey School of Public Affairs, named for the late US senator and Vice President Hubert Humphrey, at the University of Minnesota.Cars at a Toyota dealership in Portland were smashed during Thursday night's protests."I feel it's important to voice that I have serious concerns about this President-elect and the racism, sexism, xenophobia and so much more that does not represent me or so many in my life. The mood here is peaceful, positive and energetic," Peck said.Trump tweeted that the demonstrations that began hours after polls closed Tuesday night were "very unfair."Just had a very open and successful presidential election. Now professional protesters, incited by the media, are protesting. Very unfair! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 11, 2016Trump's presidency 'needs to be opposed'Documentary filmmaker Michael Moore also joined the pack of protesters outside Trump Tower in New York this week.Portland police said they used pepper spray to disperse protesters after the demonstrators threw things at the officers."I was very proud of the fact that so many people came out because his presidency needs to be opposed right now," Moore told Don Lemon on "CNN Tonight" Thursday"Literally thousands of people coming down the street and I just joined them," Moore said. "There's a lot of fear and a lot of panic amongst a lot of people right now."