Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) So, how's the rest of the world doing? Turns out, Europe has its own political drama. Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Presidential transitionAmidst reported infighting on his transition team, Donald Trump has laid out a plan for his first 200 days. A draft of the plan shows he's all about trade, and will begin re-shaping or possibly pulling out of NAFTA as soon as he's sworn in. It's been quite a whirlwind week: Here's everything that's happened since Trump was elected seven days ago.2. BrexitThe UK maybe kinda sorta doesn't have a plan for Brexit. A leaked memo shows the government has 500 Brexit projects in the works that may require 30,000 officials, but no clear strategy on how to go about exit talks. UK PM Theresa May waved the memo away, saying they are "getting on with the job."3. Technology4. Terror attacksBad news: There was a 650% increase in fatal terror attacks in the world's biggest economies last year, according to the latest Global Terrorism Index. More bad news: While military success against ISIS resulted in fewer deaths in Iraq, the group's become active in more countries -- from 13 in 2014 to 28.5. Angela MerkelThe Chancellor is going to run for a fourth term . That's great news for those Germans craving stability after Brexit, Trump's win and the rise of populist movements in some neighboring countries. Merkel's a favorite to win, although she's facing some backlash over her refugee policies.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.West Virginia mayor resigns after racist Michelle Obama postShe called her an " ape in heels ".....ugh.Chili's apologizes after taking away veteran's free mealThe vet says he was "grossly offended" after another man questioned his service due to his race.Woman claims she found rat sewn into her Zara dressPro: Nike finally has self-lacing sneakers!Here are 25 ways to be more politically activeIf the election has inspired you to do more, this is where you startAND FINALLY ...Just wait for it ...This is a good attempt at the Mannequin Challenge. Then the dog shows up, and it becomes great.