Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Tough talk on the trail. Tough conditions in the water. A tough day in the skies. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Campaign 2016It. Is. On. Thought the 2016 general election campaign didn't start until after the party conventions? Oh no, it started yesterday when Hillary Clinton went on an anti-Trump tear in her foreign policy address . She mocked his temperament, warned he shouldn't be allowed anywhere near the nuclear codes and blasted his view of how the U.S. should interact with the world. The Donald didn't even wait for the speech to end to hit back, and later railed at a rally that Hillz ought to be in jail . America, it's going to be a long five months.2. PrinceOne mystery solved, another begins. We learned yesterday an accidental overdose of pain medication killed Prince . But how did he get his hands on fentanyl in the first place? It's stout stuff; one of the strongest painkillers available. If the opioid wasn't prescribed by a doctor, who got it for him? The DEA's now involved. And if the fentanyl was illegally obtained, this death investigation will change into a criminal one.3. UCLA shootingMainak Sarkar killed his wife, drove 1,900 miles cross-country and then killed his old college professor. All over "intellectual property." That's the theory cops are working with as they try to unravel the murder-suicide at UCLA. Yesterday, Ashley Hasti, Sarkar's wife, was found dead in Minnesota. Her name was on a "kill list" that Sarkar left. William S. Klug, the professor Sarkar killed Wednesday before committing suicide, was also on the list. Another professor was also listed, but that person wasn't on campus and is OK.4. Plane crashesA tough day in the skies yesterday. First, a Thunderbirds F-16 crashed in Colorado. Then, a Blue Angels jet in Tennessee. The Thunderbirds pilot, who took part in a flyover at the U.S. Air Force Academy's graduation, ejected safely. But the Blue Angels pilot, prepping for a weekend air show, died. It's the middle of the air show season for both demonstration teams, and the crashes are sure to cast a pall.5. Rio OlympicsZika. Crime. Political unrest. As if the upcoming Olympic Games in Rio didn't have enough swirling around it, add this: floating debris and polluted water. Olympians training in Rio's Guanabara Bay report downright nasty conditions : Trash, wood, plastic bags, raw sewage. An athlete had emergency surgery when small cuts on his legs got infected. Brazil says the water will be safe for the Games, but the water's been polluted for decades.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Lesson learnedRemember the 7-year-old Japanese boy left in the woods for being "bad?" He was found alive this morning . Guess it was the parents who got schooled.Get well soonA couple of legends aren't feeling well: Boxer Muhammad Ali (respiratory issue) and radio host Garrison Keillor (seizure). Let's send good vibes their way.Green means go, red means calls the copsIf you're a 6-year-old future cop, and you think your dad ran a red light, you got no choice but to call the cops on him , right?Wait, what?He's a top spokesman for the Pentagon. She's the neighbor's nanny. And her license plates aren't safe around him. It's as bizarre as it sounds.President The RockDwayne "The Rock" Johnson says he may one day run for president , which makes sense, because The Donald's made it look so easy.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up laterIt's spelled D-E-L-I-C-I-O-U-SIt's National Donut Day! Or is it Doughnut? We explore the spelling debate, list places where you can get freebies and delve into the cop-doughnut love affair.Numbers gameNumber of the day20