(CNN) Eulogies from his widow, children and lifelong friends followed messages from religious leaders of varied backgrounds at the memorial service for Muhammad Ali, who was remembered more as the man than the boxing champion.The service in his hometown of Louisville capped a daylong final homecoming for Ali, who died at the age of 74 a week ago.Earlier in the day, a roughly two-hour funeral procession took his body past places where the legendary boxer spent his formative years: his childhood home, his high school, the first boxing gym where he trained.Ali poses with a poster for his 1976 fight against Norton. "The bottom line is that (Ali) was a great performer and he was a great athlete and he was a great entertainer," Kalinsky said. "And he was very playful. He always liked to do playful things, things that are a little different, things that would bring smiles to people's faces."Ali poses with a poster for his 1976 fight against Norton. "The bottom line is that (Ali) was a great performer and he was a great athlete and he was a great entertainer," Kalinsky said. "And he was very playful. He always liked to do playful things, things that are a little different, things that would bring smiles to people's faces."This iconic shot of the two boxers was taken as Ali left Frazier's gym. "I told (Ali) to keep up the showmanship," Kalinsky said. "It turned out to be one of my most famous pictures."This iconic shot of the two boxers was taken as Ali left Frazier's gym. "I told (Ali) to keep up the showmanship," Kalinsky said. "It turned out to be one of my most famous pictures."While in Philadelphia, Kalinsky asked the boxers to "go a round" with him, pretending the camera was their opponent. He remembered being astonished by Ali's "incredible precision," his punches missing the camera by just a quarter of an inch. "With Joe it was a different story," Kalinsky said. "Joe made me very much afraid of him. After a few seconds I said: 'Joe, that's enough. You're gonna push the camera down my throat.' "While in Philadelphia, Kalinsky asked the boxers to "go a round" with him, pretending the camera was their opponent. He remembered being astonished by Ali's "incredible precision," his punches missing the camera by just a quarter of an inch. "With Joe it was a different story," Kalinsky said. "Joe made me very much afraid of him. After a few seconds I said: 'Joe, that's enough. You're gonna push the camera down my throat.' "The two boxers fooled around for the camera at Kalinsky's request. "I said: 'Come on guys, you've got to make it look more realistic. Make it look like you're in the ring at the Garden, and I'll do what I have to do,' " Kalinsky recalled. "And they started jabbing a little bit, and Joe hits Ali in the stomach with a huge left and Ali goes down. ... Ali looked up at Joe and said, 'You son of a gun can really hit.' And Joe looks at Ali and he said: 'That's the way it's going to be the night of the fight.' " Frazier, of course, would go on to win the fight and hand Ali his first professional loss.The two boxers fooled around for the camera at Kalinsky's request. "I said: 'Come on guys, you've got to make it look more realistic. Make it look like you're in the ring at the Garden, and I'll do what I have to do,' " Kalinsky recalled. "And they started jabbing a little bit, and Joe hits Ali in the stomach with a huge left and Ali goes down. ... Ali looked up at Joe and said, 'You son of a gun can really hit.' And Joe looks at Ali and he said: 'That's the way it's going to be the night of the fight.' " Frazier, of course, would go on to win the fight and hand Ali his first professional loss.In 1971, Kalinsky managed to get Ali and Joe Frazier together before their historic first fight, which was billed as the "Fight of the Century." The two were cooperative and friendly, Kalinsky said, as he took promotional shots at Frazier's gym in Philadelphia. "They had a tremendous amount of respect for each other."In 1971, Kalinsky managed to get Ali and Joe Frazier together before their historic first fight, which was billed as the "Fight of the Century." The two were cooperative and friendly, Kalinsky said, as he took promotional shots at Frazier's gym in Philadelphia. "They had a tremendous amount of respect for each other."Ali drives around a busload of reporters in 1976, before his third fight with Ken Norton. "It was a publicity thing that Ali's driving the bus," Kalinsky said. "Well, he drove the bus into a ditch. And I know he purposefully did that because he told me he was going to do it."Ali drives around a busload of reporters in 1976, before his third fight with Ken Norton. "It was a publicity thing that Ali's driving the bus," Kalinsky said. "Well, he drove the bus into a ditch. And I know he purposefully did that because he told me he was going to do it.""Ali was always on, always promoting, always the showman, always loving children," Kalinsky said."Ali was always on, always promoting, always the showman, always loving children," Kalinsky said.Ali lathers up with soap for a playful photo shoot in Miami. "I just wanted to show what he was really like," Kalinsky said.Ali lathers up with soap for a playful photo shoot in Miami. "I just wanted to show what he was really like," Kalinsky said.Legendary jazz musician Dizzy Gillespie laughs with Ali at the boxer's training camp in Deer Lake, Pennsylvania, circa 1972. Kalinsky took many photos of Ali over the years, and the two formed a friendship.Legendary jazz musician Dizzy Gillespie laughs with Ali at the boxer's training camp in Deer Lake, Pennsylvania, circa 1972. Kalinsky took many photos of Ali over the years, and the two formed a friendship.People at the 5th Street Gym watch Ali jump rope in December 1965. "At that point, photographers weren't taking pictures of athletes doing what they do behind the scenes," Kalinsky remembers. The photographer, now 80, has been with Madison Square Garden for more than 50 years.People at the 5th Street Gym watch Ali jump rope in December 1965. "At that point, photographers weren't taking pictures of athletes doing what they do behind the scenes," Kalinsky remembers. The photographer, now 80, has been with Madison Square Garden for more than 50 years.Muhammad Ali trains at the 5th Street Gym in Miami in December 1965. The photo was taken by George Kalinsky, an amateur who noticed Ali on the street and then talked his way into the gym. "Ali's trainer, Angelo Dundee, stopped me and said you can't come in unless you pay a dollar," Kalinsky remembers. "I don't know why, but I said to Angelo, 'I'm the photographer of Madison Square Garden.' ... He looked at me and said, 'OK, comedian, come on in.' " Ironically, the Ali photos helped Kalinsky land an actual job at MSG a month later, so it wouldn't be the first time that he and the champ would cross paths.The Greatest of All Time was then laid to rest early in the afternoon in a private ceremony at Cave Hill Cemetery. Actor Will Smith, who played the title role in the 2001 film "Ali," and former heavyweight champions Lennox Lewis and Mike Tyson were among eight pallbearers, according to organizers.Friday afternoon's memorial was the main public celebration, held at the 22,000-seat KFC Yum! Center in Louisville. Many of the public attendees started lining up Tuesday for a chance to get tickets.Ali's widow, Lonnie, spoke eloquently about the inspiration of his legacy."He was sure-footed in his self-awareness, secure in his faith, and he did not fear death," Lonnie Ali said."As we face uncertainty," she said, "Mohammad's life provides useful guidance."Two of Ali's children spoke. Maryum Ali was followed by Rasheda Ali-Walsh, who made the crowd smile when she said, "Daddy's looking at us now, right? And saying, 'I told you I was the greatest!' No one compares to you, Daddy."Photos: Remembering 'The Greatest': Politicians, stars to pay tribute to Ali Former President Bill Clinton will eulogize Muhammad Ali at a memorial service Friday, June 10, in Louisville, Kentucky. Clinton, here with Ali at 2000 gala, awarded the boxing great the Presidential Citizens Medal in 2001. He said he went on "to forge a friendship with a man who, through triumph and trials, became even greater than his legend." Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Remembering 'The Greatest': Politicians, stars to pay tribute to Ali Billy Crystal will also deliver a eulogy. The comedian and Ali had a friendship that lasted more than three decades, he wrote in a 2010 piece for USA Today , calling the boxer who refused draft orders to join the Army a teacher, healer and "the fighter who wouldn't fight." Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Remembering 'The Greatest': Politicians, stars to pay tribute to Ali Republican Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah will speak. Ali once called Hatch his favorite politician, according to the Salt Lake Tribune, citing a 1988 Insight Magazine article . "He was so polite and courteous. And I could tell he wasn't patronizing me like some people do," the newspaper quoted Ali as saying. After Ali's death, Hatch said his friendship with Ali is "a special blessing that I will always cherish." Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Remembering 'The Greatest': Politicians, stars to pay tribute to Ali Actor Will Smith, who won an Oscar nomination for his portrayal of the boxer in the 2001 film "Ali," will serve as a pallbearer. He posted on Facebook after Ali's death that the fighter "changed my life." Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Remembering 'The Greatest': Politicians, stars to pay tribute to Ali Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is one of the international dignitaries expected to attend the memorial service. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Remembering 'The Greatest': Politicians, stars to pay tribute to Ali Former heavyweight champ Lennox Lewis, who will be a pallbearer at the funeral, wrote in the Daily Mail newspaper that "Ali meant everything to me. He motivated me to be a boxer and from being a boxer he motivated me to be the best boxer I could possibly be." Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Remembering 'The Greatest': Politicians, stars to pay tribute to Ali Attallah Shabazz is the eldest daughter of Malcolm X, whose friendship with Ali helped spark the boxer's conversion to Islam in the 1960s. She will deliver a poetry reading at the memorial. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Remembering 'The Greatest': Politicians, stars to pay tribute to Ali Journalist Bryant Gumbel, right, will be among those eulogizing Ali on June 10. Ali was a good friend to the former "Today" show host and sportscaster, the show said. Hide Caption 8 of 8At the memorial service, eulogies also came from University of Louisville student Natasha Mundkur and family friend John Ramsey.Malcolm X's eldest daughter, Attallah Shabazz, came close to tears recalling the man who was the last close connection to her father."Having Muhammad Ali in my life somehow sustained my dad's breath for me just a little while longer -- 51 years longer -- until now," she said in her eulogy."I am forever grateful that our union on this earth together allowed for me continuum of shared understanding, preserved confidentialities and the comfort of living in his hometown of Louisville, Kentucky, for the past six years."Shabazz said her father loved Ali as "a little brother, 16 years his junior," and as a trusted friend.With his remarks coming at the end of the nearly three-hour service -- which was already delayed for nearly an hour -- bewhiskered comedian Billy Crystal joked that he was clean-shaven when it all started.Crystal said he knew Ali for 42 years, having met him in 1974 when he was just starting out as a standup comedian and by chance was asked to do a routine at an event where Ali was present, and where he performed his impression of the boxer.The boxer whispered in Crystal's ear that he was his "little brother," a term he used every time they saw each other, Crystal said."He was a tremendous bolt of lightning, created by Mother Nature out of thin air," Crystal said.Closing out the memorial service was former President Bill Clinton, who payed homage to Ali's sense of humor right off the bat:"I can just hear Muhammad saying now, 'Well, I thought I should be eulogized by at least one president, and by making you last in a long, long line, I guaranteed you a standing ovation."Ali was able to rise above his affliction with Parkinson's Disease by being a man of both wisdom and faith, Clinton said."Being a man of faith, he realized he would never been in full control of his life. Something like Parkinson's could come along, but being free, he realized that life still was open to choices."It is the choices that Muhammad Ali made that have brought us all here today in honor and love," Clinton said.The memorial service embraced many religious faiths including an opening reading from the Quran by scholar and the family's religious adviser, Imam Shakir. A Protestant minister, two rabbis, a representative from the Catholic Church, a representative from the Buddhist religion and Sen. Orrin Hatch (representing the Mormon faith) also spoke.