Los Angeles (CNN) A murder-suicide at UCLA on Wednesday prompted a campuswide lockdown and forcing hundreds of terrified students to hide in buildings.UCLA Student Body President Michael Skiles identified Professor William S. Klug as the individual who was slain.Klug is a professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering, according to the UCLA's website. He received his undergraduate degree at Westmont College, then obtained a Masters at UCLA and a Ph.D. Caltech.He also led the Klug Research Group, which studied "problems at the interface of mechanics and biology.""We aim to understand how the physical properties of biological structures and materials are involved in biological function from molecular and cellular scales upward," the group's website says.A person from the Los Angeles County Department of Medical Examiner-Coroner's office removes a body from the scene.A person from the Los Angeles County Department of Medical Examiner-Coroner's office removes a body from the scene.Police work near the scene of the shooting.Police work near the scene of the shooting.Students leave one of the buildings on campus.Students leave one of the buildings on campus.Students gather near the scene of the shooting.Students gather near the scene of the shooting.The situation was contained shortly after noon, and there was no ongoing threat to the campus, Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said.The situation was contained shortly after noon, and there was no ongoing threat to the campus, Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said.SWAT officers and dozens of squad cars filled the area as police tried to clear campus buildings floor by floor.SWAT officers and dozens of squad cars filled the area as police tried to clear campus buildings floor by floor.Law enforcement officials search a campus building on June 1. The photo was taken from one of the school's closed-circuit cameras.Law enforcement officials search a campus building on June 1. The photo was taken from one of the school's closed-circuit cameras.Police officers respond to reports of a shooting at the University of California, Los Angeles on Wednesday, June 1. Two people were shot and killed, prompting a campus-wide lockdown. The Los Angeles police chief says it was a murder-suicide.Police officers respond to reports of a shooting at the University of California, Los Angeles on Wednesday, June 1. Two people were shot and killed, prompting a campus-wide lockdown. The Los Angeles police chief says it was a murder-suicide.The situation was contained by shortly after noon, and there was no ongoing threat to to the campus, Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said. He said police found a weapon, and no suspects remain at large.UCLA said classes were canceled for the rest of Wednesday, but are expected to resume Thursday, except for the engineering school, where the death occurred. Classes there will resume Monday, officials said.Beck said the shooting took place in a small office in the engineering building. He said he did not know whether the dead were students.Authorities had received reports of an active shooter in or near the building, Los Angeles Police Officer Tony Im said.The doors open outward and we can't lock them so we are barricading things in front of the door #Ucla #activeshooter pic.twitter.com/KwA3VjqVHh — Jason Schechter (@Jasonschechter) June 1, 2016Officials put the campus on lockdown as authorities investigated. Throngs of police with long guns patrolled the streets of the campus of more than 40,000 students.CNN MapSWAT officers and dozens of squad cars filled the area as police tried to clear campus buildings floor by floor.Police respond to the shooting at UCLAFreshman Teddi Mattox said she was in a cafeteria getting breakfast with about 100 other students when the shooting occurred."We got the alert and a woman said, 'This is not a joke, everyone get to the back of the dining hall because we have to stay away from the windows,'" she said."We're crowded back here, we've been here for at least an hour and a half. People are crying, they're nervous, they're shaking ... I have not stopped shaking for the last hour and a half."JUST WATCHED Shooting at UCLA, campus on lockdown Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shooting at UCLA, campus on lockdown 01:04UCLA officials said they will review all campus safety procedures."We're pleased in the way notification went out, troubled by some reports of unlocked doors, but we want to review everything," said Scott Waugh, UCLA's executive vice chancellor and provost.UCLA has also extended counseling services over the next few days to serve all the students who may be in need, Waugh said.Los Angeles police is still investigating the shooting, according to university officials.#LAPD News UPDATE: #LAPD is on a citywide Tactical Alert. Please stay clear of the #UCLA campus area. — LAPD HQ (@LAPDHQ) June 1, 2016Police urged residents to avoid the UCLA campus.CNN law enforcement analyst Tom Fuentes said locking down a large university in an urban area is a "monumental task." UCLA's engineering building is in the middle of a very densely populated part of Los Angeles.UCLA's final exams are scheduled for next week, with graduation set for Friday.According to UCLA, the school is known as the "birthplace of the Internet" because in 1969, the first transmission on what would become the Internet was sent from the engineering school's Boelter Hall.