Orlando, Florida (CNN) While the bodies of Omar Mateen's victims were removed from Pulse nightclub overnight, investigators worked Monday to determine what motivated the Florida killer responsible for the worst mass shooting in U.S. history -- a man the FBI knew was sympathetic to terrorism and had previously investigated.The attack appears to be "homegrown terrorism" carried out by legally purchased firearms, President Barack Obama said in the Oval Office. He said there wasn't any evidence the attacker was under direction from a terrorist network, or carrying out any group's larger plot.In Washington, FBI Director James Comey defended the agency's investigation of Mateen, a 29-year-old security guard from Fort Pierce, Florida, who was placed on a terror watch list and was looked into twice. Agents found no reason to think he was a credible threat, Comey said.Investigators are "highly confident" the gunman was self-radicalized through the internet, Comey said.According to one official, analysis of Mateen's electronic devices showed searches for jihadist propaganda, including videos of ISIS beheading videos and of Anwar al-Awlaki -- an influential American-born imam who worked as a spokesman for al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and was killed in 2011."He consumed a hell of a lot of jihadist propaganda" online, the source said.Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack U.S. President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden place flowers at a memorial Thursday, June 16, for the victims of the nightclub shooting in Orlando. At least 49 people were killed in the massacre, the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. Hide Caption 1 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People remember the victims during a vigil at an LGBT community center in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Tuesday, June 14. Hide Caption 2 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Jean Dasilva, left, is comforted by Felipe Soto as they mourn the loss of their friend Javier Jorge-Reyes on June 14. They were visiting a makeshift memorial at Pulse, the gay nightclub where the shooting took place. Hide Caption 3 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Britain's Prince William and his wife, Catherine, sign a book of condolences at the U.S. Embassy in London on June 14. Hide Caption 4 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack A vigil for the Orlando victims is held in New Delhi on June 14. Hide Caption 5 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Thousands gather in Orlando on Monday, June 13, to pay tribute to those who were killed the day before. Hide Caption 6 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack The Eiffel Tower in Paris is illuminated in rainbow colors on June 13. Hide Caption 7 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack A woman lights a candle during a vigil in Sydney on June 13. Hide Caption 8 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Runners pass under half-staff flags at the Washington Monument on June 13. Hide Caption 9 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack U.S. Ambassador to Thailand Glyn T. Davies, right, gestures to members of the LGBT community outside the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok, Thailand, on June 13. They were holding a vigil for the victims. Hide Caption 10 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Students in Mumbai, India, light candles near a rangoli, an Indian form of art created on the ground, on June 13. Hide Caption 11 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack White roses and rainbow flags are displayed in front of the U.S. Embassy in Berlin on June 13. Hide Caption 12 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People gather for a vigil in Seoul, South Korea, on June 13. Hide Caption 13 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack The city of Melbourne posted this image on its Twitter account June 13 "as a mark of respect for those touched by the attack in Orlando. Town Hall is lit in the rainbow #LoveIsLove." Hide Caption 14 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Mourners hold an LED sign as they march during a vigil in Dallas on Sunday, June 12. Hide Caption 15 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Lin-Manuel Miranda, creator of the musical "Hamilton," delivers a sonnet at the Tony Awards to pay tribute to the Orlando victims. Hide Caption 16 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack A rainbow flag flies at half-staff on the Space Needle in Seattle on June 12. Hide Caption 17 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Henry Duong pays tribute during a memorial service in San Diego. Hide Caption 18 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack One World Trade Center is lit in rainbow colors June 12 in New York. Hide Caption 19 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Mourners hold up signs during a vigil in Washington on June 12. Hide Caption 20 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Mourners gather during a vigil in front of the White House on June 12. President Barack Obama called the mass shooting an "act of terror" in remarks to the nation. Hide Caption 21 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Two women light candles during a vigil in front of the U.S. Embassy in Santiago, Chile, on June 12. Hide Caption 22 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Mourners observe a moment of silence during a vigil in Atlanta. Hide Caption 23 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Ryan Gibson, left, embraces Tabor Winstead during a vigil in Raleigh, North Carolina, on June 12. Hide Caption 24 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack A man injured in the attack stands with other mourners as they attend a memorial service at an Orlando church. Hide Caption 25 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack Participants in the Los Angeles gay pride parade show their support for the victims on June 12. Hide Caption 26 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People hold candles near Rome's Colosseum as they take part in a ceremony on June 12. Hide Caption 27 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack A man places a handprint on a makeshift memorial near the nightclub where the attack took place. Hide Caption 28 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People gather for a vigil June 12 outside the Stonewall Inn in New York. Stonewall is considered the birthplace of the gay rights movement. Hide Caption 29 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People gather in Sao Paulo, Brazil, to mourn the Orlando victims on June 12. Hide Caption 30 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People gather for a vigil near the Beaubourg art center in Paris on June 12. Hide Caption 31 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People line up to donate blood at a blood bank in Orlando. Hide Caption 32 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack People show their support for Orlando during the Los Angeles gay pride parade. Hide Caption 33 of 34 Photos: World reacts to Orlando attack The Rev. Jeffrey Montoya leads a prayer in Greenfield, Wisconsin, on June 12. Hide Caption 34 of 34'This is Orlando'In Orlando, people grappled with the magnitude of the horror: One man armed with an assault rifle and a pistol managed to kill 49 people and wound another 53 inside a gay nightclub.But there were elements of hope. Susan Forbes, spokesman for the OneBlood bloodbank , said 5,500 units were collected across the state to help the wounded. Blood was collected in Orlando until 4 a.m. Monday, she said."People want to help," she said. "This is Orlando. That horrific event is not our city."Folks have laid bouquets on #Orlando hospital sign just blocks from #PulseNighClubShooting. pic.twitter.com/WvD7na4G5F — Eliott C. McLaughlin (@EliottCNN) June 13, 2016The nightclub itself was unapproachable because it's a crime scene, but dozens of bouquets had been left beside the sign of Orlando Regional Medical Center, where many of the wounded were taken.At the First Unitarian Church of Orlando, free counseling was offered by Two Spirit , a group that works with the local LGBT community. David Baker-Hargrove of Two Spirit said turnout was light so far but he expects that to change.David Baker-Hargrove, who's organizing #Orlando counseling: "Most of us in the community did not sleep last night." pic.twitter.com/SWimlWyycL — Eliott C. McLaughlin (@EliottCNN) June 13, 2016"Our community is still in shock," he said.Vigils were held across the world as the names of those killed at the club were released and survivors described the horror of the massacre.In Paris, a city that knows the pain of terror, half the Eiffel Tower was lit in the colors of the U.S. flag and the other half in the colors of the rainbow flag.See a live view as the Eiffel tower lights up to honor the 49 victims of #OrlandoShooting https://t.co/2nVir2HPWb pic.twitter.com/8xuFX8AJNW — CNN (@CNN) June 13, 2016Earlier, officials had said the dead numbered 50, but clarified that they were including the gunman.Third gun foundAuthorities said Mateen entered the club about 2 a.m. Sunday with the guns. After an initial bout of shooting, he engaged in a three-hour hostage situation with police until they finally crashed into the building with an armored vehicle and killed Mateen."He was cool and calm when he was making those phone calls to us," Orlando police Chief John Mina said. "We had a team of crisis negotiators that did talk to the suspect just trying to get as much information as possible. ... He really wasn't asking for a whole lot. We were doing most of the asking."The weapons found with the shooter have been identified by investigators as a Sig Sauer AR-15-type assault-style rifle and a Glock 9mm semiautomatic pistol. He legally bought the rifle and pistol in the past couple weeks, authorities said. There's no evidence the Sig Sauer AR-15 assault-style weapon was modified to automatic or burst fire.In addition, authorities found a .38-caliber Smith & Wesson revolver in the shooter's car that was not used in the attack.When he bought the guns at a Fort Pierce gun shop, Mateen went through a full background check, said shop owner Ed Henson. Published reports said Mateen tried to purchase body armor, but Henson said his shop doesn't sell that product.Law enforcement officials also said Mateen spent several hours Saturday at Disney Springs -- the shopping and entertainment complex inside the Walt Disney World Resort -- prior to the attack, according to cell phone tower data. Mateen is believed to have been alone during that period, according to the officials.Chris Callen, a performer who'd worked at Pulse, told CNN's Anderson Cooper he'd seen Mateen a couple times at the nightclub.Callen said he once he introduced himself and Mateen was "very friendly" and that he seemed comfortable there. Callen estimated he'd come to to the club two times a month for a period of three years.Four regular patrons at Pulse also told the Orlando Sentinel they had seen Omar Mateen there before. In interviews with the newspaper, they said that he'd been there multiple times.Prior visits to Pulse are a line of inquiry investigators are pursuing, sources involved in the investigation told CNN's Jim Scuitto and Evan Perez.Looking for terror linksThe security company that hired Mateen said it conducted background checks in 2007 and again in 2013. G4S says the background check also included a psychological evaluation called the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory. The company said he worked security at a gated community.ISIS sympathizers have reacted by praising the attack on pro-ISIS forums, while the official online ISIS radio channel, Al-Bayan, described it as a "raid on a Crusader gathering" carried out by "one of the Caliphate's soldiers in America."During the standoff, Mateen called 911 to pledge allegiance to ISIS. He also mentioned the Boston Marathon bombers.But that's confusing because Mateen also claimed connections to other extremists groups, some of which are considered enemies and rivals of ISIS, Comey said.FBI agents first interviewed Mateen in 2013 after co-workers reported he'd made "inflammatory and contradictory" comments about terrorism. He admitted making the remarks but said he was angry because his co-workers were teasing him because he was Muslim, Comey said.Two months later, in July 2014, investigated a Florida man who'd blown himself up in Syria in support of al Nusra Front, an al Qaeda affiliate also considered an ISIS rival. The suicide bomber knew Mateen, investigators discovered, but those ties were not of "any consequence," Comey said.Trapped in the clubSurvivors of the attack shared their stories.One person hiding in the bathroom covered herself with bodies for protection. Some entertainers hid in a dressing room when the shooting started and escaped the building by crawling out when police removed the air conditioning unit.People trapped inside the club desperately called and messaged friends and relatives. Some clubgoers said they thought they were going to die.The city of Orlando is posting names of the deceased on a website after family members have been notified. The youngest person among those who have been named was Akyra Murray, 18.