Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Sitting in. Voting through. Running out. It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. GunsHouse Democrats kicked it old school and new school in their efforts to force a vote on gun control measures. First they staged an old-fashioned, 1960s style sit-in yesterday on the House floor, led by civil rights icon John Lewis. After the cameras in the chamber were cut off, the Dems kept the party going by livestreaming on Periscope. This went on until the wee hours of this morning, when Republicans held a vote -- on Zika funding -- and then adjourned for a recess that lasts through the Fourth of July. No problem, said the Democrats, who promise to keep the protest going through the break.2. BrexitShould they stay or should they go? Today's the day we'll find out whether the United Kingdom will stay in the European Union or say "see ya later" to the 28-nation bloc. Almost 46.5 million people are registered to vote in the once-in-a generation referendum . Polls close at 10 p.m. local time (5 p.m. ET), with first results expected about midnight (7 p.m. ET). The final, nationwide result will be announced tomorrow morning.3. Campaign 2016Looks like Trump 2.0 is in full effect. Donald Trump's campaign has been plagued by self-inflicted wounds and poor polling and fundraising numbers as of late, so it's been making some changes. The campaign manager was fired, and yesterday Trump gave his most "presidential" speech since becoming the presumptive GOP nominee. He used a (gasp) teleprompter and basically stuck to his script. But that script was full of fire and brimstone for Hillary Clinton. Trump called her "a world-class liar" and slammed her use of a private email server. Clinton's response? She feels she's "gotten under his skin."4. Social SecurityGen Xers often joke (but only slightly) that when they start retiring in about 20 years there won't be any Social Security left for them. Well, they're kind of right. An annual report released yesterday says Social Security's trust fund will be tapped out by 2034 if lawmakers don't act. That doesn't mean we'll all have to be Wal-Mart greeters during our golden years though. It means that Social Security will only have enough revenue coming in to pay about 79% of promised benefits. Raising payroll taxes and/or cutting some benefits seems to be the only way out of this mess.5. The fluHate taking the flu shot? Prefer fighting the flu with a nasal spray? Well, roll up your sleeves, because the shot might be your only option this upcoming flu season. A CDC advisory committee recommended yesterday that FluMist, the nasal spray influenza vaccine, not be used . Scientists say it just doesn't work very well. One study found it to be 46% effective against the flu, compared to 65% for the flu shot. And against one particular strain of flu, FluMist doesn't work at all. The CDC's director must give his final OK to flushing FluMist.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Wedding crasherWedded bliss got off to a rough start for a couple in Colorado when a rattlesnake photobombed their photo shoot -- by biting the groomSolar windSolar Impulse 2, the experimental solar plane, made history today by crossing the Atlantic with only the sun's rays to push it along.Ice, ice babyForget the Cleveland Cavaliers. Sports' real "it" team is Iceland's soccer team, which shocked the world by getting to Euro 2016's knockout round.Just the pitsMaxim India says Priyanka Chopra is the "Hottest Woman in the World." But Maxim doesn't think she's perfect: they had to photoshop her armpits , after all.Hello hockeyVegas gets its first major pro sports team: an NHL expansion franchise . And cast those gambling fears aside. No one bets on (or watches) the NHL anyway.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up laterV dayA judge will issue a verdict this morning in the latest trial surrounding Freddie Gray's death. Baltimore Officer Caesar Goodson faces a murder charge in the case.Number of the day66 millionThe number of dead trees in California, providing more tinder for an already volatile wildfire season.AND FINALLY ...(Non) lethal weaponWhen you're a kid, Nerf guns are cool. When you're an adult, giant Nerf guns are even cooler.