(CNN) It was a fitting end to this country's most famous Muslim life: Family and friends gathered around the bed of Muhammad Ali, the boxer whose conversion to Islam decades ago sent countless seekers and sportswriters scrambling in search of a Quran."It was a very smooth and somber transition from this world," said Imam Zaid Shakir, a prominent Muslim scholar who ministered to Ali and his family for the past six years, including the boxer's final hours. "It was a moment that united his family and his children."Before he died at age 74 last Friday, Ali composed a message to be conveyed this week in Louisville, Kentucky, said Shakir, who will lead Islamic funeral prayers there on Thursday. A memorial service will follow on Friday.Ali friend: He wanted to be able to speak on IslamAli friend: He wanted to be able to speak on Islam 01:04Ali friend: He wanted to be able to speak on IslamAli's death after a long battle with Parkinson's disease did more than unite his large family. It also connected the diverse and often discordant American Muslim community.Islam is the only religion in America without a majority ethnic group, which can be a source of friction and infighting. But in the days since Ali's death, South Asians and Arabs, white converts and African-Americans, not to mention Sunnis and Shias, all hailed Ali as a hero.Ali pioneered a new path in this country's religious life, they said, marrying an all-American bravado with an unapologetic embrace of Islam."There is no denying that Muhammad Ali is the most famous and influential American Muslim, ever," wrote Yasir Qadhi , a Muslim-American scholar and cleric, on a Facebook post that garnered 58,000 "likes.""If the only good that he brought was to bring a positive image of Islam, and to spread the name of our beloved prophet in every household and on every tongue in the world, it is a life that is indeed enviable."In an unprecedented sign of respect, a coalition of national groups, including the Council on American-Islamic Relations, Muslim Public Affairs Council and Islamic Society of North America, have urged Muslims to honor the late boxer this week with special prayers at local mosques.Ibrahim Hooper, a spokesman for CAIR, said Muslim Americans have launched national campaigns over civil rights cases and humanitarian crises, but never before over a death like Ali's."It's an indication of his impact and his legacy. He is a symbol of Islam in America -- and in a positive sense," Hooper said. At a time when Islam is the subject of so much bad press, Muslims said it was a rare pleasure to hear newscasters pronounce the name "Muhammad" with "care and reverence" in the days after Ali's death.Sherman Jackson, one of country's pre-eminent African-American Muslim scholars, said Ali demonstrated "a new way of being black," a courage backed by religious conviction, a swagger infused with faith."It is my hope that the passing of Muhammad Ali will not mark the end of an era in the United States," wrote Jackson in a column this week , "an era in which Islam in America is represented not by the deeds or misdeeds of actors in far off places but by the accomplishments and contributions, the resolve and courage of American Muslims themselves."'Beloved of God'The media struck quite a different tone when Ali revealed his conversion to the Nation of Islam in 1964, soon after winning the heavyweight title. Rumors were spreading about the boxer's close friendship with Malcolm X, a leader in the controversial sect. Was it true, a reporter asked the new champ, that he was a "card-carrying member of the Black Muslims?"Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Since winning a gold medal in the 1960 Olympics, Muhammad Ali has never been far from the public eye. Take a look at the life and career of Ali, the three-time heavyweight boxing champion who called himself "The Greatest." Hide Caption 1 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali, then known as Cassius Clay, poses in his hometown of Louisville, Kentucky, prior to his amateur boxing debut in 1954. He was 12 years old and 85 pounds. As an amateur, he won 100 out of 108 fights. Hide Caption 2 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali rose to prominence at the 1960 Olympic Games in Rome, where he claimed a gold medal in the light-heavyweight division. Hide Caption 3 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali boldly predicted it would take him five rounds to knock out British boxer Henry Cooper ahead of their bout in London in 1963. The fight was stopped in the fifth round as Cooper was bleeding heavily from a cut around his eye. Hide Caption 4 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Patrick Power, 6, takes on Ali in the ring in 1963. Patrick was taking boxing lessons after getting bullied. Hide Caption 5 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali poses for a picture with The Beatles in Miami, during the run-up to his heavyweight title fight against Sonny Liston in 1964. Hide Caption 6 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali celebrates after defeating Liston in Miami on February 25, 1964. Upon becoming world heavyweight champion for the first time, Ali proclaimed, "I am the greatest!" Hide Caption 7 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali relaxes after his win over Liston in 1964. At 22, he became the youngest boxer to take the heavyweight title from a reigning champion. Hide Caption 8 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Civil rights activist Malcolm X, left, takes a picture of a tuxedo-clad Ali surrounded by jubilant fans in March 1964. Shortly after the Liston fight, Ali announced that he had joined the Nation of Islam and changed his name from Cassius Clay. Hide Caption 9 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Known for being as quick with his mouth as he was with his hands, Ali often taunted his opponents. He famously said he could "float like a butterfly, sting like a bee." Hide Caption 10 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali prepares to defend his heavyweight title in 1965. Hide Caption 11 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali stands over Liston during their rematch in Lewiston, Maine, on May 25, 1965. Hide Caption 12 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali eats at a restaurant in 1965. Hide Caption 13 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali The referee pushes Ali to a neutral corner as Floyd Patterson slumps to the canvas in November 1965. The fight was stopped at the end of the 12th round and Ali was declared the winner. Hide Caption 14 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali signs an autograph for a fan in 1966. Hide Caption 15 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali visits a children's home in London in May 1966. Hide Caption 16 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali trains for his second fight against British champion Henry Cooper in May 1966. Hide Caption 17 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali British talk-show host Eamonn Andrews shares a laugh with Ali in May 1966. Hide Caption 18 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali lands a right to the head of Brian London during their bout in London on August 6, 1966. Ali won by a knockout in the third round. Hide Caption 19 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali looks in his hotel-room mirror in February 1967. Hide Caption 20 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali The referee counts as Ali looks down at Zora Folley during a championship fight in New York on March 23, 1967. Ali won by a knockout in the seventh round. Hide Caption 21 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali As a conscientious objector to the Vietnam War, Ali refused induction into the U.S. Army in April 1967. Here, top athletes from various sports gather to support Ali as he gives his reasons for rejecting the draft. Seated in the front row, from left to right, are Bill Russell, Ali, Jim Brown and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. Hide Caption 22 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali walks through the streets of New York with members of the Black Panther Party in September 1970. Ali was sentenced to five years in prison for his refusal to enter the draft, and he was also stripped of his boxing title. The U.S. Supreme Court overturned Ali's conviction in 1971, but by that time Ali had already become a figurehead of resistance and a hero to many. Related: Photographer fondly recalls his three days with Ali Hide Caption 23 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali On November 2, 1970, Ali returned to the ring for his first professional fight in three years. He defeated Jerry Quarry in the third round. Hide Caption 24 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Known as the "Fight of the Century," Ali and Joe Frazier split a $5 million purse to fight for Frazier's title on March 8, 1971, in New York. Frazier won by unanimous decision, handing Ali his first professional loss. Hide Caption 25 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali toys with the finely combed hair of television sports commentator Howard Cosell before the start of the Olympic boxing trials in August 1972. Hide Caption 26 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali and Frazier appear on "The Dick Cavett Show" in January 1974. The two got into a brawl in ABC's New York studio and were fined $5,000 each. Hide Caption 27 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali passes a cheering crowd in Kinshasa, Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of Congo), on September 28, 1974. Ali was in the country to fight George Foreman, who had recently defeated Frazier to win the title. Hide Caption 28 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali and Foreman fight October 30, 1974, in what was billed as "The Rumble in the Jungle." Ali, a huge underdog, knocked out Foreman in the eighth round to regain the title that was stripped from him in 1967. Hide Caption 29 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali addresses a Nation of Islam meeting in London in December 1974. The following year, Ali left the Nation and embraced a more mainstream Islamic faith. Hide Caption 30 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali offers advice to future opponent Richard Dunn in March 1976. Ali defeated Dunn in the fifth round two months later. It was his last knockout win. Hide Caption 31 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali and his third wife, Veronica, second from right, visit the Kremlin in Moscow in June 1978. The two were married from 1977 to 1986. Ali was married four times. Hide Caption 32 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali takes his daily run along a Pennsylvania country road, shrouded in early morning fog, in 1978. Hide Caption 33 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali takes a hit from Leon Spinks during their title fight in New Orleans on September 15, 1978. Ali won by unanimous decision, regaining the title he lost to Spinks earlier that year. Hide Caption 34 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali sits with his daughters Laila and Hana at the Grosvenor House in London in December 1978. He briefly retired from professional boxing the following year. Hide Caption 35 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali came out of retirement on October 2, 1980, for a title fight with Larry Holmes and a guaranteed purse of $8 million. Holmes won easily, beating up Ali until the fight was stopped after the 10th round. Hide Caption 36 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali and Trevor Berbick weigh in for their fight in the Bahamas in December 1981. Berbick won by unanimous decision. It was Ali's last professional fight. Hide Caption 37 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali prays at a mosque in Cairo in October 1986. Two years prior, he revealed that he had Parkinson's syndrome, a disorder of the central nervous system. Hide Caption 38 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali In 1990, Ali met with Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to negotiate the release of 15 American hostages in Iraq and Kuwait. Here, Ali leaves Iraq with the hostages on December 2, 1990. Hide Caption 39 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali lights the Olympic torch at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. Hide Caption 40 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Juan Antonio Samaranch, president of the International Olympic Committee, gives Ali a replacement gold medal in 1996. Ali had thrown his 1960 gold medal into the Ohio River after he was criticized for not fighting in Vietnam. Hide Caption 41 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali and his fourth wife, Lonnie, unveil his special-edition Wheaties box in February 1999. The box marked the cereal's 75th anniversary, and it was the first time a boxer appeared on the cover. Hide Caption 42 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Actor Arnold Schwarzenegger raises Ali's hand during the Celebrity Fight Night charity event in Phoenix in March 2002. Schwarzenegger was presented with the Muhammad Ali Humanitarian Award for his work with the Muhammad Ali Parkinson Research Foundation, the Inner-City Games Foundation and the Special Olympics. The award was presented by former CNN host Larry King, left. Hide Caption 43 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali arrives in Kabul, Afghanistan, in November 2002 for a three-day goodwill mission as a special guest of the United Nations. He was appointed as a U.N. Messenger of Peace in 2000. Hide Caption 44 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali U.S. President George W. Bush presents Ali with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, on November 9, 2005. Hide Caption 45 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Members of the media watch a video of Ali before the grand opening of the Muhammad Ali Center in Louisville, Kentucky, in November 2005. Hide Caption 46 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali's wife, Lonnie, watches as actress Alfre Woodard presents him with the President's Award during the 2009 NAACP Image Awards in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 47 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali On May 24, 2011, Ali appears at the National Press Club in Washington to publicly appeal to Iranian officials for the release of captive hikers Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal. The hikers were released in September 2011, more than two years after their detention. Hide Caption 48 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali poses during a photo shoot outside his home in Paradise Valley, Arizona, in January 2012. Hide Caption 49 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali poses for a picture with, from left, Greg Fischer, Len Amato, daughter Laila Ali and Donald Lassere during the U.S. premiere of the HBO film "Muhammad Ali's Greatest Fight" in October 2013. Hide Caption 50 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali A boxing robe worn by Ali, which belonged to the late country singer Waylon Jennings, went up for auction in 2014. Hide Caption 51 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali is seen with singer Carrie Underwood at a charity event in Phoenix in April. Hide Caption 52 of 52"'Card-carrying.' What does that mean?" replied Ali, then still known as Cassius Clay. "I believe in Allah and in peace. ... I was baptized when I was 12, but I didn't know what I was doing. I'm not a Christian anymore. I know where I'm going and I know the truth, and I don't have to be what you want me to be. I'm free to be what I want."It was a defiant stance at a time when Muslims and black athletes were expected to keep quiet and blend in. Ali would have none of it. He changed his name to Muhammad Ali, explaining that it means "beloved of God," and insisted that people use it.Biographer David Remnick wrote that Ali was attracted to the Nation of Islam's message of racial pride, self-sufficiency and almost militant sense of manhood. In public, Ali defended the Nation of Islam's racially charged doctrines, telling one incredulous interviewer , for example, that he really believed all white people are devils, one of many tenets that separate the sect from mainstream Islam.Ali later recanted, writing in his 2004 biography, "The Nation of Islam taught that white people were devils. I don't believe that now; in fact, I never really believed that. But when I was young, I had seen and heard so many horrible stories about the white man that this made me stop and listen."In 1966, citing his faith, Ali filed for conscientious objector status, refusing to fight in the Vietnam War. "War is against the teachings of the holy Quran," Ali said at the time. "I'm not trying to dodge the draft. We are not supposed to take part in no wars unless declared by Allah or his messenger."The ensuing legal battle cost Ali millions in boxing revenue and nearly landed him in jail before the Supreme Court ruled in his favor. But what he lost in athletic accolades, Ali gained in street cred. From then on, he was counted among the rarest of religious objectors: those who fought the law, and won.Silenced by GodIn the 1970s, Ali followed some Nation of Islam leaders into the mainstream of Sunni Islam, the sect encompassing about 85% of Muslims worldwideHe later completed the full transition from militancy to mysticism through Sufism, a strand of Islam that emphasizes a direct, personal connection to God. That connection is sometimes accompanied by an openness to other religions, as demonstrated in Ali's request that Christian, Buddhist, Jewish and other religious leaders receive invitations to the memorial and funeral services this week in Louisville."Muhammad Ali was a person who respected other faiths," said Shakir, who is co-founder of Zaytuna College in California, the nation's first Muslim liberal arts college."He understood at this critical juncture of human history, when faith is under attack, that we need a critical mass of moral and spiritual energy to overcome our obstacles, and our challenges can't be overcome by Muslims alone."Despite his peaceful personality in later years, Ali could still land a verbal jab. In December, he slammed Donald Trump's proposal to temporarily bar Muslims from entering the United States.JUST WATCHED Trump called hypocrite for Muhammad Ali tweet Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump called hypocrite for Muhammad Ali tweet 01:58"We as Muslims have to stand up against those who use Islam to advance their own personal agenda," Ali said. "They have alienated many from learning about Islam."He was equally critical of terrorists, saying days after 9/11 that "Islam is peace, and against murder and killing, and the people doing that in the name of Islam are wrong. And if I had the chance, I would do something about it."By then Parkinson's had taken a notable toll on Ali, as it had on another beloved religious figure, St. John Paul II. Men who became famous for their physical prowess and eloquence now had trouble moving and speaking. But like the late pontiff, the boxer endured his ailments gracefully, friends and family said."I ran my mouth like nobody else and now God has silenced me," he told his friend Shakir. "And I'm good with that. I've done my talking."In the mid-1990s, Ali told journalist Remnick that he thought constantly about death, especially during his five daily prayers. "Thinking about after," Ali said. "Thinking about paradise."Ali's legacy will continue, and his star will burn especially bright this week, as kings and presidents, comedians and celebrities, sports stars and spiritual gurus gather for memorial services in Louisville."All of them will be there to honor and celebrate the life of this great man," said Jackson, the scholar. "And not one of them will be able to separate Muhammad Ali's greatness as an American from his commitment as a Muslim. Ali emphatically put the question of whether one can be a Muslim and an American to rest. Let that question now be interred permanently with his noble remains."