(CNN) Let's check in with Rich Hill and make sure he's OK. The Dodgers pitcher threw a nine-inning no-hitter -- and still lost the game. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia investigationCongressional investigators have unearthed an email from a top aide to Donald Trump that referenced a previously unreported effort to arrange a meeting last year between Trump campaign officials and Russian President Vladimir Putin , according to sources with direct knowledge of the matter.The aide, Rick Dearborn, who is now President Trump's deputy chief of staff, sent a brief email to campaign officials last year relaying information about an individual who was seeking to connect top Trump officials with Putin, the sources said. The person was only identified in the email as being from "WV," which one source said was a reference to West Virginia. It's unclear who the individual is, what he or she was seeking, or whether Dearborn even acted on the request.Sources said the email occurred in June 2016 around the time of the Trump Tower meeting where Russians with Kremlin ties met with the president's eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., his son-in-law Jared Kushner as well as then-campaign chairman, Paul Manafort . Dearborn did not respond to multiple inquiries seeking comment. White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders declined to comment, and would not respond to inquiries about Dearborn's email and whether the campaign carried through with that meeting.2. CharlottesvilleJUST WATCHED White supremacist Christopher Cantwell surrenders Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH White supremacist Christopher Cantwell surrenders 00:443. Transgender troopsJUST WATCHED Transgender service member calls ban 'unkind' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Transgender service member calls ban 'unkind' 00:594. Texas voter ID lawThe Lone Star State's latest voter ID law discriminates against minorities, a federal judge says, so she's throwing it out . The ruling covers a voter ID law blocked last year by a federal court and a new measure enacted this summer as a replacement. Judge Nelva Gonzales Ramos said both laws -- which require people to either show ID before voting or sign a declaration -- discriminate against many blacks and Latinos, so she issued permanent injunctions against both. Texas's attorney general called the ruling "outrageous" and promised to appeal.JUST WATCHED John Oliver slams voter ID laws Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH John Oliver slams voter ID laws 01:045. Gulf nations crisisJUST WATCHED Qatar restoring diplomatic ties with Iran Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Qatar restoring diplomatic ties with Iran 03:19NUMBER OF THE DAY4The number of Russian diplomats who have died this year. The latest is Russia's envoy to Sudan, who died while swimming in a poolBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Power playSomeone bought the winning Powerball ticket , worth $759 million, and it probably wasn't you, so be sure you make it to work on time this morning.America's got anger issuesMel B got ticked at Simon Cowell, threw a drink at him and walked off "America's Got Talent," probably because this show hasn't had buzz in forever.#HappyBirthdayThe hashtag is now 10 years old , and we don't remember how we branded our social media posts without it.JUST WATCHED Will a hashtag create Middle East peace? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Will a hashtag create Middle East peace? 02:39How can we miss you if you never go away?That '2:30 p.m. feeling'Can't seem to get out of that afternoon rut? Don't worry about it. Your brain wasn't set up to anyway.QUOTE OF THE DAY"Back up you creep, get away from me"What was going through Hillary Clinton's mind when Donald Trump stood behind her during a debate last year in St. Louis. She details the encounter in "What Happened," her upcoming book about the 2016 presidential election.JUST WATCHED Clinton: My 'skin crawled' in debate with Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Clinton: My 'skin crawled' in debate with Trump 01:53AND FINALLY ...Hero sandwich