(CNN) How to break out of jail in Alabama: Confuse the new guard ... and use peanut butter . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President TrumpThe White House says President Trump "weighed in" on the very first statement released last month by his eldest son after it was revealed that Donald Trump Jr. met with a Russian lawyer in 2016. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said there wasn't anything inaccurate about that statement and that the President didn't dictate it but did have some input into it.Of course, we now know that the original statement -- that the meeting was primarily about an adoption program -- was misleading. It was later revealed that Trump Jr. took the meeting in hopes of getting damaging info on Hillary Clinton. One of Trump's lawyers had denied that the President was involved at all in crafting the statement.2. North KoreaA top Republican senator says a military showdown with North Korea is inevitable if the regime continues with its missile program. Sen. Lindsey Graham said there's a "military option" to destroy the missile program and "North Korea itself." Graham also said President Trump told him that if there's going to be a war and thousands were going to die, "they're going to die over there, they're not going to die here."Graham's remarks stand in stark contrast to those from Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who said the US is still willing to talk to the North Koreans. Tillerson will be in Asia later this week for regional meetings on security. Ministers from North Korea, South Korea, China and Japan are due to be there, too.JUST WATCHED Consequences of a North Korea-US war Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Consequences of a North Korea-US war 03:053. Tax reformJUST WATCHED Why tax reform is so hard Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why tax reform is so hard 02:054. Hot car deathsJUST WATCHED Your car can be deadly, even when parked Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Your car can be deadly, even when parked 01:125. Colleges and raceThe Trump administration may be getting ready to take on affirmative action in colleges , The New York Times reports, by prepping Justice Department resources to investigate cases of "race-based discrimination." The report is based on a memo, which CNN has not independently obtained, that the Justice Department's civil rights division is looking for lawyers to work on discrimination cases involving college admissions. The Times suggests the phrase "intentional race-based discrimination" could mean the effort is aimed at affirmative action-based policies that prioritize minority students over white students.JUST WATCHED Supreme Court upholds affirmative action at university Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Supreme Court upholds affirmative action at university 01:11NUMBER OF THE DAY92-5The Senate vote to confirm Christopher Wray as the next director of the FBIJUST WATCHED Wray confirmed by Senate as new FBI director Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wray confirmed by Senate as new FBI director 01:09BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Burn noticeThey look pretty, but apparently they'll hurt you: almost 275,000 iPhone cases made with liquid glitter are being recalled because they've burned people.Flyby trackerDid you know that NASA has a planetary defense system ? We didn't either. Turns out it uses observatories, not lasers, to track asteroid threats.JUST WATCHED NASA Planetary Defense Office set up to save Earth Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NASA Planetary Defense Office set up to save Earth 01:44Intentional groundingWinning can't be the only thing at a Wisconsin school named for famed NFL coach Vince Lombardi after it canceled its football seasonFlying highShe was born in a refugee camp in Afghanistan. Now she's flying a plane -- by herself -- around the globe.Take the money and runA New Jersey security guard's first day of work was probably different than yours, since police say he stole $100,000 out of his company's armored truck.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHRoyal retirementPrince Philip, 96, attends a parade of the Royal Marines at Buckingham Palace today, marking the end of his 65 years of public life.JUST WATCHED Prince Philip: The man behind the Queen Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Prince Philip: The man behind the Queen 01:37AND FINALLY ...Comedy gold