(CNN) There's A LOT going on, so let's get straight to what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia investigationFederal investigators exploring whether Donald Trump's campaign colluded with Russians have seized on Trump and his associates' financial ties to Russia as one of the most fertile avenues for moving their probe forward, according to people familiar with the investigation. Trump's reaction to this will be closely watched, since a few weeks ago the President said moving the investigation into the realm of his or his family's finances would cross a red lineMeanwhile, special counsel Robert Mueller has issued grand jury subpoenas related to Donald Trump Jr.'s 2016 meeting with a Russian lawyer at Trump Tower. The subpoenas seek both documents and testimony from people involved in the meeting, CNN has learned. That meeting has drawn scrutiny since an email exchange beforehand indicated the Russians were offering damaging information on Hillary Clinton.2. President TrumpThe President, in a surprise to no one, blasted these new developments in the Russia investigation during a rally in West Virginia . He called the Russia probe "a total fabrication" and "an excuse for the greatest loss in the history of American politics." He also slammed the US Senate for not spiking Obamacare , saying the senators had "let us down."Trump was joined at the rally by West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice, who announced he was moving from Team Democrat to Team GOP. It makes sense that Justice would switch parties: Trump won almost 70% of the vote last fall in his state and has a 60% approval rating there. Republicans are running circles around the Dems at governors' mansions: Justice gives the GOP a 34-to-15 advantage in governorships.JUST WATCHED West Virginia governor switches to GOP Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH West Virginia governor switches to GOP 01:03During the rally, Trump didn't bring up those transcripts of his calls with foreign leaders, which got leaked to The Washington Post . According to the transcripts, Trump urged Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto to stop saying Mexico wouldn't pay for the US border wall. He also called New Hampshire a "drug-infested den."JUST WATCHED Details emerge of Trump's calls with leaders Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Details emerge of Trump's calls with leaders 04:453. Gun salesJUST WATCHED Will NRA-backed Trump hurt the gun industry? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Will NRA-backed Trump hurt the gun industry? 02:444. Harvard and diversityFor the second year in a row, the freshmen class at Harvard is mostly nonwhite. Of the 2,056 students accepted into this class, 50.8% don't identify themselves as white. This didn't make headlines when it happened last year, but it is now, as the renowned university faces a discrimination complaint filed by a coalition of 64 Asian-American associations. The complaint alleges that Harvard has discriminated against Asian-Americans in its admissions policies. Harvard denies the claim. The complaint has caught the attention of the Justice Department , which is looking to lawyers to study it.5. Texting-suicide caseMichelle Carter was sentenced to 15 months in jail on her involuntary manslaughter conviction . Carter, then 17, sent numerous text messages to her then-18-year-old boyfriend urging him to kill himself, which he did in July 2014. The case may prompt Massachusetts to pass a law (already on the books in about 40 other states) that would make it a crime to encourage someone to commit suicide. Carter will be free while her case is appealed.JUST WATCHED Michelle Carter gets 15 months in prison Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Michelle Carter gets 15 months in prison 01:52BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.SkywritingWhat do you do when you're testing the engines for the 787 Dreamliner and you have 18 hours to kill? Draw an airplane in the sky , of course.Special deliveryThe pizza delivery driver's car broke down, so he walked a half-mile to deliver the order. Now his grateful customer is raising money to get his car fixed.Don't look down!Visiting Switzerland? Cool, you can check out the world's longest pedestrian suspension bridge , which just opened. It's 1,621 feet long and 279 feet in the air. But, wait, you aren't afraid of heights, are you?Out of this worldNASA wants your best tweets so it can beam the very best one to the Voyager spacecraft and give the aliens something to read.QUOTE OF THE DAY"I can't accept myself if I'm over 200 pounds"Oprah Winfrey, a major stockholder in and spokeswoman for Weight Watchers, says while she's all for self-acceptance, even she has her limitsWHAT'S FOR LUNCHJobs milestone?Have a million jobs been added so far in the Trump presidency? We'll find out later this morning when the July jobs report comes out.JUST WATCHED Trump's views on the jobs report come full circle Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump's views on the jobs report come full circle 01:15Opening dayJUST WATCHED Why Venezuela is in crisis Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Venezuela is in crisis 01:49Light it upThe mandatory evacuation order for two islands in North Carolina's Outer Banks will end at noon ET , after power was restored after a weeklong outage.AND FINALLY ...Faceoff