(CNN) It's safety first for this month's solar eclipse: Don't buy bogus sunglasses. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. North KoreaNorth Korea's response to the latest round of sanctions -- this time from the UN -- was fiery but not completely unexpected. The regime said the US would "pay dearly," not just for the sanctions but for all other "crimes" against the country. The North Koreans also said they have no intention of negotiating over their nuke program , though Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said the US is open to dialogue "when the conditions are right." The sanctions, OK'd over the weekend, target the North's primary exports and could slash income from them by a third.2. African votesIt's election day in Kenya , one of Africa's largest economies and a buffer of stability near Somali, Sudan and South Sudan. Incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta faces off against former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. Lines at voting places were long, and an independent electoral commission said turnout looked "huge." Kenyatta promises to create 1.3 million jobs; Odinga vows to fight corruption.JUST WATCHED President Zuma faces vote of no-confidence Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH President Zuma faces vote of no-confidence 00:553. Military plane crashThree US Marines killed in a crash off Australia's east coast have been identified . 1st Lt. Benjamin Cross, 26; Cpl. Nathaniel Ordway, 21; and Pfc. Ruben Velasco, 19, died over the weekend when an Osprey aircraft crashed in the ocean. Twenty-three other people on board the aircraft were rescued. The incident occurred while attempting to land the Osprey on a Navy ship.JUST WATCHED Search for missing Marines called off Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Search for missing Marines called off 00:284. ObamacareAnthem had already announced it was pulling out of exchanges in Ohio, Indiana and Wisconsin and much of California. But the news isn't all bad: Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina says it's reducing its requested premium increase for next year to 14.1% (it originally had asked for a 22.9% hike) because the market in that state is becoming less volatile.JUST WATCHED How Trump can upend Obamacare without Congress Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Trump can upend Obamacare without Congress 02:155. Sanctuary citiesJUST WATCHED Chicago suing DOJ over new sanctuary cities policy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chicago suing DOJ over new sanctuary cities policy 01:24NUMBER OF THE DAY38%BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Spoiler alertRachel Lindsay made history this season on "The Bachelorette," but the show's typical finale controversies remain intact.Holy BATS!Batman has a bat cave. That's cute. But it's probably nothing compared to this cave in Austin, Texas , which sports millions of the winged creatures.JUST WATCHED Millions of bats form tornado in the sky Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Millions of bats form tornado in the sky 02:52Double miseryA Canadian man lost his home last year in the Fort McMurray wildfire. Nine hundred miles away in British Columbia, wildfires just hit him againGuardian of the galaxyI need a heroNetflix just bought a comic books publisher , because we obviously don't have enough superheroes in the movies just yet.AND FINALLY ...Just like 'Jumanji'