(CNN) You can stop nibbling that caviar, New York. Hong Kong is now the top destination for the world's wealthiest people . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. PoliticsWashington is most definitely out of the summer doldrums. There's so much going on, it'll make your head spin:• President Trump again called on The New York Times to reveal the identity of the author of that op-ed that deeply criticized him and his administration. He also said publishing it might be an act of treason . One by one, top officials denied being the writer (but remember, Mark Felt denied being "Deep Throat" for years).• Democratic Sen. Cory Booker upended Brett Kavanaugh's Supreme Court confirmation hearing, saying he was risking expulsion by releasing allegedly confidential documents from Kavanaugh's time in the George W. Bush White House. Republicans called Booker's move a political stunt because the docs had already been cleared for release.JUST WATCHED Booker grills Kavanaugh about loyalty to Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Booker grills Kavanaugh about loyalty to Trump 03:37• The Trump administration said it will seek to keep some undocumented immigrant children in detention for far longer than currently allowed• Advisers to Barack Obama said the ex-President will more pointedly push back against Trump during a speech today.2. AfghanistanDefense Secretary James Mattis made a surprise trip to Afghanistan today. He'll meet with Army Gen. Scott Miller, the new Commander of Resolute Support and US Forces-Afghanistan. Mattis' visit comes as the US is trying to pump new energy into its Afghanistan strategy after 17 years of war. Just a few days ago, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo named veteran diplomat Zalmay Khalilzad as a special envoy to Afghanistan. Khalilzad will focus on getting "the Afghans and the Taliban to come to a reconciliation."JUST WATCHED Deadliest recorded year for Afghan civilians Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Deadliest recorded year for Afghan civilians 02:543. Cincinnati shootingInvestigators are working to try to find a motive in a shooting in Cincinnati's Fountain Square district that killed at least three people . Police say a man, armed with a pistol and more than 200 rounds of ammo, opened fire on the loading dock of a bank headquarters building before going to the lobby. There, he was shot and killed by police. "This could have been a bloodbath beyond imagination," a prosecutor said. The shooter, 29-year-old Omar Enrique Santa Perez, had no known connections to the building, police said.JUST WATCHED Shooting leaves suspect, three others dead Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shooting leaves suspect, three others dead 01:354. BrazilThe frontrunner in Brazil's upcoming presidential election was stabbed during a rally. Video shows shows Jair Bolsonaro being led through a crowd of supporters when a man suddenly stabs him in the chest. The suspect, who has a Facebook page full of anti-Bolsonaro posts, was arrested. Bolsonaro is recovering at a hospital after surgery and likely will be off the campaign trail for weeks. Bolsonaro's known for making racist, sexist and homophobic remarks, but he's attracted millions of supporters who believe he can shake up Brazil's corruption-marred political class. The election is set for October 7.JUST WATCHED Brazilian presidential candidate stabbed at event Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Brazilian presidential candidate stabbed at event 01:005. Burt ReynoldsRugged good looks, a mischievous smile -- and that mustache. Burt Reynolds used all that and more to become one of Hollywood's biggest stars during the '70s and '80s. Reynolds -- the star of "Smokey and the Bandit," "Deliverance" and "The Longest Yard" -- died at 82 of cardiac arrest . Reynolds did a little bit of everything, from action flicks to comedies, and earned an Oscar nomination in 1998 for his role as a porn film producer in "Boogie Nights." He was also a director and philanthropist and founded the Burt Reynolds Institute for Film & Theatre in Florida. Check out his five essential movies hereJUST WATCHED Remembering Burt Reynolds' lighter side Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remembering Burt Reynolds' lighter side 02:05TODAY'S QUOTE"Victims in New York deserve to be heard as well -- and we are going to do everything in our power to bring them the justice they deserve."New York Attorney General Barbara Underwood, announcing a civil investigation into how the Catholic Church there may have covered up allegations of the sexual abuse of minors . Civil subpoenas have gone out to all eight Catholic dioceses in the state, a source says.JUST WATCHED A Catholic yells 'Shame on you!' at cardinal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A Catholic yells 'Shame on you!' at cardinal 02:31BREAKFAST BROWSENever mindRemember that "popular film" category they wanted to have at next year's Oscars? Well, forget about it , for now at least.Madness in MilanStarbucks is opening up its first store in Italy , but good luck finding a Frappuccino in the place.Free rideTalk about a fun first day of school. A banker told seniors at a Wisconsin high school he'd pay their tuition if they go to a two-year technical school.Joy rideThe widow only had $3 for gas. A cop not only put $20 into her tank, but he i nspired other people to help her out.JUST WATCHED A widow only had $3 for gas, so a cop fills up her tank and inspires over $7,000 in donations to help Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A widow only had $3 for gas, so a cop fills up her tank and inspires over $7,000 in donations to help 01:18HAPPENING LATERJobs reportThe August jobs report comes out later this morning, and economists predict the unemployment rate will stay below 4%.JUST WATCHED 'Cosby Show' actor: 'Honor the dignity of work' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Cosby Show' actor: 'Honor the dignity of work' 01:44TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeThirteen years after they were stolen, the FBI recovered a pair of ruby red sequined slippers that actress Judy Garland wore in what classic film?A. "Meet Me in St. Louis"B. "The Red Shoes"C. "Cinderella"D. "The Wizard of Oz"Play "Total Recall: The CNN news quiz" to see if you're right. And don't forget, you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."TODAY'S NUMBER2 millionThe number of F-150 trucks Ford is recalling because of a fire riskJUST WATCHED What would an F-150 shortage mean for Ford? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What would an F-150 shortage mean for Ford? 01:57IT'S THE WEEKEND, BABYYou could go see Jennifer Garner on the big screen, taking on bad guys in the revenge flick "Peppermint." Or sit back and stream the rom com "Sierra Burgess is a Loser" on Netflix.AND FINALLYSlang school