If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Get '5 things' in your inbox(CNN) Tired of this reality? Facebook released a fancy new VR headset that doesn't even require a PC to work. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Brett KavanaughToday is the day. After what seemed like an eternity of debates and accusations and counter-accusations, Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh and the woman accusing him of sexual assault decades ago, Christine Blasey Ford, will testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee starting at 10 a.m. ET. Both have prepared written testimony (Ford's is here ; Kavanaugh's is here ). Many are making comparisons with Anita Hill , who in 1991 accused then-SCOTUS nominee Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment, which he denied. Today's hearing comes a day after another accuser -- the third on the record -- came forward to say Kavanaugh displayed sexually aggressive behavior during high school parties. The bottom line? What happens today matters -- for the Supreme Court, for #MeToo , for both political parties, for the upcoming midterm elections, for everyone. You can watch it all live on CNN and CNN.com2. ChinaThe relationship between the US and China is pretty tense right now, so any little action between the two countries is going to be a bit dramatic. This week, the US Air Force conducted two bomber flights into areas considered sensitive by the Chinese military, namely the South and East China seas and through an area China calls its Air Defense Identification Zone. Think of it like walking through a neighbor's lawn to get somewhere else -- except the neighbor's lawn is rigged with military-grade security equipment. Meanwhile, President Trump rubbed some salt in the diplomatic wound. In an unrelated news conference yesterday, he claimed China is trying to interfere in November's US midterm elections . Why? Because, according to him, China isn't happy with his tough trade tactics and wants to hurt his political power.Apple may have most to lose with China tariffsApple may have most to lose with China tariffs 02:03Apple may have most to lose with China tariffs3. North KoreaLooks like there will be a sequel to June's United States-North Korea summit. Next month, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will travel to North Korea again to start making arrangements for President Trump and Kim Jong Un to meet . Trump said yesterday that the summit will happen "fairly quickly" and that North Korea has the potential to be an economic power. The announcement of Pompeo's trip, his fourth to North Korea, came just weeks after Trump canceled a trip the top US diplomat had planned for August. At the time, Trump said there hadn't been enough progress on denuclearization.JUST WATCHED Trump: North Korea horror stories are gone Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: North Korea horror stories are gone 00:504. GoogleWhat is Google's "Project Dragonfly?" The mysterious code-named plan came up yesterday during a Senate committee hearing , at which several major tech and telecom execs testified about a potential federal law to regulate data privacy. Project Dragonfly is widely rumored to be a search engine project for China that would block sensitive websites and search terms in accordance with Chinese censorship. Unsurprisingly, a lot of Google employees have taken issue with the plan. The company was tight-lipped during the hearing, though, and did not confirm nor deny the link between the code name and the project.JUST WATCHED Does Trump have a point about Google? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Does Trump have a point about Google? 05:555. MethamphetaminesWhile the opioid epidemic continues to ruin lives across the country, another monster is growing. States like Oklahoma are experiencing a troubling increase in methamphetamine activity. Experts say Mexican cartels are one of the reasons for the rise because they bring in cheaper and purer forms of the drug. In fact, over the past eight years, there has been a nearly tenfold increase in the amount of methamphetamine seized by US Customs and Border Protection. It's probably no coincidence the number of overdose deaths in Oklahoma has risen as well.HAPPENING LATERWill he or won't he?The Kavanaugh hearing isn't the only big thing going down in Washington. Today is also supposed to be the day President Trump meets with Rod Rosenstein. The deputy attorney general is widely rumored to be on the chopping block, but in the last few days Trump has been back and forth on it . Will they meet? Will Rosenstein get the boot? Stay tuned.JUST WATCHED Trump: My preference is to keep Rosenstein Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: My preference is to keep Rosenstein 01:24BREAKFAST BROWSEUK postal service to environmental campaigners: Please stop mailing empty potato chip bagsOne of China's space labs will fall to Earth in 2019JUST WATCHED Chinese space lab burns up falling back to Earth Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chinese space lab burns up falling back to Earth 01:53Scientists may have uncovered a new whale species that lived millions of years agoThis café in Korea looks like an actual cartoonSo, when you're bleary-eyed and jonesing for your morning coffee, walking into a completely different realm of existence won't be confusing at all.Photos: Step into a cartoon at this cafe in South Korea Cartoon delights: Welcome to YND239-20, the adorable cartoon cafe that's delighting visitors to Seoul, South Korea. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Step into a cartoon at this cafe in South Korea Optical illusion: Taking its name from its address, Yeon-Nam-Dong 239-20, the cafe is a real world optical illusion. Pictured here: Instagram user : Taking its name from its address, Yeon-Nam-Dong 239-20, the cafe is a real world optical illusion. Pictured here: Instagram user @frondstogram enjoying the cartoon vibe. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Step into a cartoon at this cafe in South Korea Worldwide impact: JS Lee, the marketing manager of the cafe, tells CNN Travel that visitors come from all over the world to experience the cartoon delights. Pictured here: Instagrammer JS Lee, the marketing manager of the cafe, tells CNN Travel that visitors come from all over the world to experience the cartoon delights. Pictured here: Instagrammer @mmarichell enjoying YND239-20. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Step into a cartoon at this cafe in South Korea Social media star: Visitors post photographs on their Instagram feed and the cafe quickly earned its place on the map. "We became famous very naturally," says Lee. Pictured here: Instagrammer Visitors post photographs on their Instagram feed and the cafe quickly earned its place on the map. "We became famous very naturally," says Lee. Pictured here: Instagrammer @adayinthelalz visiting the cafe. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Step into a cartoon at this cafe in South Korea Global plan: Lee adds that the runaway success of the cafe has prompted the owners to consider starting a franchise, potentially taking the concept outside of Korea. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Step into a cartoon at this cafe in South Korea Sweet sucess: The cafe has certainly been a success with visitors. Instagram user The cafe has certainly been a success with visitors. Instagram user @hannahinternational , pictured, says the owner of the cafe was incredibly accommodating: "She was really sweet," she tells CNN Travel. Hide Caption 6 of 6500 food experience worth traveling forTODAY'S NUMBER80,000The number of American deaths caused by the flu and its complications last winter alone, according to the CDC . Last year's flu season was the deadliest in four decades. Now's the time to get your flu shotJUST WATCHED Seven questions about the flu shot Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Seven questions about the flu shot 02:33TODAY'S QUOTE"Everybody looks at you as a monster, and I regretted it since the moment it happened."Ian Ritch, the father who lost track of his autistic son last weekend during a visit to a park in Gastonia, North Carolina. Six-year-old Maddox Scott Ritch is still missing, and his father says he is consumed by guilt.JUST WATCHED Mother pleads for return of missing 6-year-old Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mother pleads for return of missing 6-year-old 01:11AND FINALLYRUDE!