(CNN) Nearly 10.7 million teens are at risk for e-cigarette use and potential addiction, and now the FDA is trying to combat the fad by putting awareness posters in high school bathrooms across the country. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Trade warHow the US trade war might impact your beerHow the US trade war might impact your beer 01:45How the US trade war might impact your beer2. Brett KavanaughThere's been another major twist to the Kavanaugh confirmation saga. The SCOTUS nominee's accuser now says she wants the FBI involved . Attorneys for Christine Blasey Ford, who has accused Kavanaugh of sexually assaulting her when they were teenagers in the 1980s, said yesterday in a letter that their client is not prepared to testify in a public hearing that had been set for Monday unless the FBI first investigates her allegations . This raises the stakes for Republicans. Should they delay the confirmation, potentially setting themselves up for a big political defeat? Or should they move forward with the confirmation, say they gave Ford a chance to say her piece and risk appearing like they aren't willing to respect a woman's accusations against a powerful man?3. North and South KoreaA breakthrough on the Korean peninsula: During a joint news conference today in Pyongyang, South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un agreed to an "era of no war." The leaders committed to a series of joint diplomatic efforts, and both countries' defense chiefs signed an accord in which the two countries vowed to "cease all hostile acts against each other." Also, the subject of nuclear de-escalation came up in a big way. South Korea announced that North Korea would close a key missile test facility in the presence of "international experts" and potentially destroy its primary nuclear complex -- but only if the United States agrees to corresponding measures.JUST WATCHED Moon: The era of no war has started Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Moon: The era of no war has started 01:294. CameroonJUST WATCHED Protests in Cameroon turn deadly in 2016 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Protests in Cameroon turn deadly in 2016 01:205. TeslaIt seems more troubles are on the way for Tesla and its embattled CEO, Elon Musk. The automaker said yesterday that the Justice Department is looking into a tweet sent by Musk last month about Tesla's trading status . Musk tweeted that he was thinking about taking the company private, even naming a share price and saying he had the backing to do so. That never happened, but Tesla stock shot up right after his announcement. Some shareholders think he was intentionally trying to goose it. Meanwhile, a diver involved in July's Thai cave rescue filed a defamation suit against Musk this week after Musk repeatedly and called the diver a "pedo" (that's short for pedophile) on Twitter.JUST WATCHED Watch Elon Musk smoke marijuana on podcast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch Elon Musk smoke marijuana on podcast 02:13BREAKFAST BROWSEMerriam-Webster adds new words, including 'rando,' 'hangry' and 'adorbs'Don't you love it when the dictionary makes you feel oldMichael Jordan donates $2 million to Hurricane Florence reliefJordan is a Bull, a GOAT* and a Tar Heel -- he grew up in Wilmington, North CarolinaStormy Daniels shares XXX-rated details of alleged Trump affairJUST WATCHED Stormy Daniels shares details of alleged affair Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Stormy Daniels shares details of alleged affair 02:25The new 'Captain Marvel' trailer is hereThat sound you hear is the elated screams of millions of Marvel fans -- and Marvel accountants.Sesame Street: Bert and Ernie are not gay, they are puppetsWe support B&E however they want to live their lives, but is Sesame Street trying to tell us puppets don't have sexualities ? What about Kermit and Miss Piggy?! Don't make me Google "puppet romance" -- because I WILL.JUST WATCHED Bert and Ernie, happily ever after? (2013) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bert and Ernie, happily ever after? (2013) 03:03HAPPENING LATERThe President visits the CarolinasPresident Trump will visit Hurricane Florence-affected areas in North and South Carolina today , giving him a chance to flex some empathy and apolitical muscle.JUST WATCHED As Florence approached, Trump bragged about Puerto Rico response Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH As Florence approached, Trump bragged about Puerto Rico response 03:28TODAY'S QUOTES"If Texas elects a Democrat, they're going to ban barbecue across the state of Texas."Senator Ted Cruz, joking with his supporters after PETA showed up, unaffiliated with any candidate, to one of his campaign events offering samples of barbecued tofuJUST WATCHED Ted Cruz outlasts Jimmy Kimmel in hoops game Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ted Cruz outlasts Jimmy Kimmel in hoops game 01:24TODAY'S NUMBER$10,000,000The amount a Massachusetts gas company is donating to a relief fund to help residents displaced by a series of gas explosions last week that burned 40 homes and businesses and killed one person. Columbia Gas is now facing a Senate inquiry and a class-action lawsuit.JUST WATCHED Several suspected gas explosions caused fires in Massachusetts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Several suspected gas explosions caused fires in Massachusetts 00:53AND FINALLYThe SKILLS