(CNN) After a year of scandal and controversy, we have a new Miss America : Nia Franklin. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Les MoonvesOne of the most powerful men in media steps down as sexual misconduct allegations swirl around him. Les Moonves left CBS , a company he ran for two decades , after a story this weekend in The New Yorker detailed assault and harassment accusations from six women. In addition to the sexual misconduct allegations, Moonves was fighting a boardroom battle for control of CBS with controlling shareholder Shari Redstone. With Moonves now gone, Redstone may position CBS for a sale.2. Tropical weatherThe Atlantic hurricane season hits its peak today. And right on cue, Hurricane Florence barrels across the ocean, on a path that will take it to the southeast US coast by the end of the week as a Category 3 storm or higher. Behind Florence, two other storms are also churning in the Atlantic (but Hurricane Helene and Hurricane Isaac are not expected to hit the US mainland). And don't forget there are storms out in the Pacific too. Hurricane Olivia is expected to hit the Hawaiian Islands by mid-week. Want to know even more about hurricanes? Let CNN meteorologist Judson Jones school you.JUST WATCHED Residents empty shelves ahead of hurricane Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Residents empty shelves ahead of hurricane 01:313. Russia protestsPolice in Russia detained more than 1,000 people as protests broke out across the country. The demonstrators are unhappy with a proposed government pension overhaul that would raise the retirement age. The protests were organized by supporters of Alexei Navalny, the opposition leader who is under administrative arrest for organizing an unsanctioned rally in the capital back in January. The crackdown was most severe in St. Petersburg, and it produced the protests' most-defining image: Police detaining a school-age boy.JUST WATCHED More than 1K detained in Russia protests Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH More than 1K detained in Russia protests 01:464. Sweden electionsIt could be weeks or months before a new government forms in Sweden. The country's two main centrist coalitions failed to win a majority in Sunday's election, while the far-right, anti-immigration, EU-hating Sweden Democrats made big gains. So some deals have to be struck between the country's political parties to form a government, and the big fear is that the Sweden Democrats -- a party with roots in the neo-Nazi movement -- made enough gains to be a kingmaker in the process.JUST WATCHED Far-right party surges in Sweden Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Far-right party surges in Sweden 02:155. Dallas shootingA Dallas police officer was arrested and charged after she killed a man in his apartment, thinking it was her own. Amber Guyger was charged with manslaughter in the shooting death of Botham Shem Jean. Police say Guyger had just ended a shift when she went to the apartment, encountered Jean inside and opened fire. There's a racial angle to this story, too. Guyger is white and Jean is black, leading some to say it's another example of people of color "being killed in some of the most arbitrary ways."JUST WATCHED What investigators may be looking for Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What investigators may be looking for 01:31BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Bird bluesRemember that cute little blue bird from the movie "Rio?" Sadly a new study says the Spix's macaw is now extinct in the wild.Thinking of youLet's all send our best wishes to Olivia Newton-John. The Aussie superstar says she's fighting cancer for the third time.JUST WATCHED 2014: 'I touch myself' as a breast cancer song Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2014: 'I touch myself' as a breast cancer song 01:03Nicki vs. CardiWhat happens when the two leading ladies of hip-hop take their beef to Fashion Week ? Social media hysteria for days and days.Perfect pixelsWho needs the beautiful people? Check out the modeling agencies that don't hire real people.Treasure tripLooking for buried treasure? You might want to take a trip to northern Italy, where archaeologists just unearthed hundreds of Roman gold coins.NUMBER OF THE DAY$17,000The fine Serena Williams received for three code violations during her US Open finals loss over the weekend. Williams clashed with an umpire over accusations of illegal coaching. She said the penalties were unfair and another example of sexism in tennis.JUST WATCHED Serena: I'm here fighting for women's rights Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Serena: I'm here fighting for women's rights 01:35QUOTE OF THE DAY"Hopefully people will know that calling a crisis line is an easy thing to do, even though that phone feels like it weighs 400 pounds before you pick it up."Wendy Martinez Farmer, CEO of Behavioral Health Link, a suicide hotline call center in Atlanta. Today is , CEO of Behavioral Health Link, a suicide hotline call center in Atlanta. Today is World Suicide Prevention Day , and when people are thinking about suicide, Farmer's team talks them out of it.JUST WATCHED Crisis counselors field near 1,000 calls a day Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Crisis counselors field near 1,000 calls a day 02:03AND FINALLY ...Talking turkey