(CNN) Astronomers have found an exoplanet that's only 16 light-years away, and it's eerily similar to the planet Vulcan from "Star Trek." Maybe the final frontier isn't so far out of reach! Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Maryland shootingThree people are dead after a woman opened fire at a drug store distribution center yesterday in Harford County, Maryland. The suspect also fatally shot herself. Officials say the suspect was at some point a security guard at the facility, and a source close to the investigation called her a disgruntled employee. The incident is unusual because female shooters are unusual -- only nine of 250 recorded incidents between 2000 and 2017 involved female shooters, the FBI found. The last high-profile case was in April, when a woman shot and wounded three people at YouTube headquarters. The Maryland shooting was the third high-profile shooting in the US in two days and came just months after a gunman killed five people in an Annapolis newsroom2. Lake Victoria ferry wreck3. Brett KavanaughIt looks like Christine Blasey Ford, the woman who has accused SCOTUS nominee Brett Kavanaugh of sexually assaulting her in high school, may testify before a Senate panel after all . Her lawyers sent an email to the Senate Judiciary Committee yesterday saying Ford "would be prepared to testify next week," if senators offer her "terms that are fair and which ensure her safety." If you'll recall, there was supposed to be a hearing Monday regarding the allegations, but Ford's lawyers told the committee it would be unrealistic for her to testify so soon . The two sides are expected to continue talking details, including whether a potential witness to the alleged attack might testify and whether an outside counsel -- a woman -- would be brought in to question Ford to help the GOP overcome its lack of female senators on the committee.JUST WATCHED GOP women: I believe Kavanaugh Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH GOP women: I believe Kavanaugh 02:474. ImmigrationFamilies separated at the US-Mexico border are still being reunited, though the process is slow and incomplete . The US government says 34 more immigrant children have been reunited with their families since last week, but that still leaves more than 100 children in government custody. Meanwhile, Attorney General Jeff Sessions this week made two quiet rulings to tighten control of immigration courts. One effectively makes it harder for immigration courts to be lenient with undocumented immigrants; the other may restrict the ability of immigrants awaiting asylum hearings to be let out of detention.JUST WATCHED A rare look inside immigration detention Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A rare look inside immigration detention 00:465. China sanctionsThe US hit China's military with sanctions yesterday for purchasing weapons from the Russian military, but the move was actually designed to punish the Russian government . The penalties were applied under a law that requires the US to sanction anyone undertaking significant transactions with certain people affiliated with Russian intelligence and military services, including arms manufacturers. According to US officials, this the first time anyone has been sanctioned for doing business with people on this blacklist.JUST WATCHED What is Trump doing to stop Russian election interference? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is Trump doing to stop Russian election interference? 04:21TODAY'S QUOTE"For a year, he has tried to spin it, but the truth speaks louder than he ever will. He can spin it all he wants. Three thousand people died on his watch."San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz, who told CNN's Anderson Cooper the tragedies of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico would be remembered as "President Trump's (Hurricane) Katrina."JUST WATCHED San Juan mayor: Puerto Rico is Trump's Katrina Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH San Juan mayor: Puerto Rico is Trump's Katrina 01:23BREAKFAST BROWSETwo brothers want to revolutionize the food industry with maggotsPuppies to blame for drug-resistant infectionMark this as the only day in history when puppies were bad newsPhotos: Diseases you can catch from animals Dogs – Roundworm is one of the most common diseases that we get from dogs. Every year there are about 10,000 cases of roundworm spreading through the body and causing fever and fatigue. Dogs and puppies also can transmit campylobacter infections. Symptoms include diarrhea, cramping, abdominal pain and fever. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Diseases you can catch from animals Cats – Some of your feline's favorite activities, licking and scratching, can give you the bacterium that causes cat scratch fever, which leads to swollen lymph nodes. Cats also can transmit campylobacter infections, causing symptoms of diarrhea, cramping, abdominal pain, and fever. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Diseases you can catch from animals Turtles – About 70,000 people get salmonella infections, typically including fever and diarrhea, from reptiles every year in the US. The bacteria can live on reptiles, like turtles, without making them sick. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Diseases you can catch from animals Parrot fever can infect parrots, parakeets and macaws, but rarely causes symptoms for them. It can, however, cause fever, chills, headache and pneumonia in people. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Diseases you can catch from animals Armadillos – Some armadillos are naturally infected with leprosy, also known as Hansen's disease, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It is possible, though unlikely, for humans to catch the disease from armadillos. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Diseases you can catch from animals Crested gecko – Since January of last year, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported at least 20 people in the U.S. came down with salmonella infections linked to crested geckos they brought home from pet stores. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Diseases you can catch from animals Hamsters – Hamsters and other "pocket pets" can carry lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV). The virus typically causes flu-like symptoms, including fever and muscle aches. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Diseases you can catch from animals Petting zoos – Petting zoos and county fairs have been associated with outbreaks of E. coli and flu. Hide Caption 8 of 8NASA shares delicious-looking picture of Jupiter's North PoleDisney CEO says they're going to cool it on the 'Star Wars' stuff for nowJUST WATCHED How Disney turns old stories into box office gold Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Disney turns old stories into box office gold 03:02Gap is trying to one-up Lululemon with a men's athleisure lineTOTAL RECALLQuiz time!Which hugely popular show took home this year's Emmy for Outstanding Drama?A. "This is Us"B. "The Handmaid's Tale"C. "Game of Thrones"D. "Westworld"Play "Total Recall: The CNN news quiz" to see if you're right. And don't forget, you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."TODAY'S NUMBER2030The year Britain could becoming a smoking-free society , according to a study from Public Health England. Some 400,000 people gave up smoking in England last year alone.JUST WATCHED How to quit smoking forever Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How to quit smoking forever 02:13IT'S THE WEEKEND, BABYJUST WATCHED Browns fans open beer fridge after first win Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Browns fans open beer fridge after first win 01:30AND FINALLYThere is a lot going on here