(CNN) For a man who preached inclusiveness and reached millions around the world, it's a fitting way to let his fans say goodbye.Muhammad Ali's funeral and jenazah -- or Muslim funeral prayer service -- will be open to the public, his spokesman Bob Gunnell said.And one of the venues will be the site of Ali's last hometown fight in Louisville, Kentucky.The jenazah will take place at noon Thursday at Freedom Hall -- where Ali defeated Willi Besmanoff on November 29, 1961.A total of 14,000 tickets will be available on a first come, first service basis, starting at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, Gunnell said. Four tickets maximum per request will be available from the Freedom Hall box office.All faiths are welcome."Ali spoke of inclusiveness his entire life," Gunnell said. "We want this to be inclusive of everyone."The final public goodbye will come Friday, with Ali's funeral.His body will be driven through the streets of Louisville, the city where the three-time heavyweight champion grew up and began his amateur career at age 12.The funeral will take place at 2 p.m. Friday at the KFC Yum! Center -- a 22,000-seat basketball arena in Louisville. Tickets will be available at the center box office starting at 10 a.m. Wednesday; fans can start lining up at 6 a.m. As Gunnell said, tickets will be limited to four per person on a first come, first serve basis until the box office closes at 8 p.m. or sellout, whichever comes first.The eight pallbearers include Will Smith, who played Ali in the biopic "Ali," and former heavyweight champion Lennox Lewis, along with family friends and relatives.JUST WATCHED Ali's twin daughters speak out Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ali's twin daughters speak out 06:57Former President Bill Clinton, longtime sportscaster Bryant Gumbel and comedian and close Ali friend Billy Crystal will be among those delivering eulogies, Ali's spokesman said.Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and King Abdullah II of Jordan will also speak, Gunnell said.Those who can't make it inside the arena can watch the funeral streamed live on the website for the Muhammad Ali Center.After the funeral, Ali will be interred at Cave Hill Cemetery.A monumental lossThe world mourned Ali's death on Friday night at age 74, the result of septic shock due to unspecified natural causes.JUST WATCHED Muhammad Ali's media mastery Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Muhammad Ali's media mastery 01:40Ali's family members knew the icon did not belong to them alone."He belonged to the world," Hana Ali told CNN in her first interview after her father's death. "And I'm OK with that."The immediate family will have a private gathering Thursday."Muhammad Ali was truly the people's champion, and the celebration will reflect his devotion to people of all races, religions and backgrounds," the family said in a statement."Muhammad's extraordinary boxing career only encompassed half of his life. The other half was committed to sharing a message of peace and inclusion with the world. Following his wishes, his funeral will reflect those principles, and be a celebration open to everyone."It's the way her father would have wanted it, Hana Ali said. He may have even foreseen it.She recounted a recurring dream he would describe of walking down the street in Louisville surrounded by chants and cheers. Then, all of a sudden, he takes off flying.'You can go back to God now'The boxing great had been at HonorHealth Scottsdale Osborn Medical Center in Scottsdale, Arizona, with what Gunnell initially described as a respiratory issue."I know it sounds crazy, but I think we all just thought Daddy would defy the odds of even death," Hana Ali said. "He just seemed to always fight through everything."JUST WATCHED Friend: Muhammad Ali was 'a very humble man' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Friend: Muhammad Ali was 'a very humble man' 03:42He spent his final hours surrounded by children and grandchildren, she said. They took turns holding his hands, hugging and kissing him, and whispering in his ear."It was beautiful," she said, sobbing. "He was at peace."Louisville welcomes the worldThrongs of fans have descended on Louisville to pay their respects and learn more about Ali's hometown.People started lining up at 2 a.m. Saturday to see his childhood home on Grand Avenue, which opened as a museum in early May.The flood of interest in Louisville prompted the city to create a website -- AliLouisville.com . It guides fans to landmarks inspired by Ali and describes the icon's impact on the community.The city will celebrate the legend Wednesday with a free "I Am Ali" festival featuring music and other live entertainment. Children can write on a wall and describe what they want to be "the greatest" in.Global tributesPresident Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama were among those who mourned Ali's passing."But we're also grateful to God for how fortunate we are to have known him, if just for a while; for how fortunate we all are that The Greatest chose to grace our time," the Obamas said in a statement.Don King, the boxing promoter every bit as brash as Ali, told CNN that in his mind Ali will never die."His spirit will go on forever," he said. "He's just a great human being, a champion of the people, the greatest of all time."Even as the former champ battled Parkinson's disease for his final 32 years, he had the same love for life and people, King said. Parkinson's, which primarily affects a patient's movement, is a "progressive disorder of the nervous system," according to the Mayo Clinic.Hours before her famed father passed away, Laila Ali, herself a former world champion boxer, posted a photo of Ali with her daughter, Sydney, who was born in 2011, and thanked the public for their support.George Foreman, whom Ali defeated in 1974 for the world heavyweight title, wrote on Twitter, "It's been said it was rope a dope Ali beat me with. (N)o (it was) his beauty that beat me. Most beauty I've know(n). loved him."It's been said it was Rope a dope, Ali beat me with no his beauty that beat me. Most beauty I've know loved him pic.twitter.com/G64WX3eyZC — George Foreman (@GeorgeForeman) June 4, 2016Famed promoter Bob Arum called Ali "a true great."A true great has left us. @MuhammadAli transformed this country and impacted the world with his spirit. pic.twitter.com/ByNZYhM2ro — Bob Arum (@BobArum) June 4, 2016Mike Tyson, the youngest heavyweight champion in history, said, "God came for his champion. So long great one."Career spurred by a police officerJUST WATCHED Muhammad Ali dies at 74 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Muhammad Ali dies at 74 01:31Ali was born in January 1942 as Cassius Clay. He began boxing as an amateur after his bicycle was stolen and a police officer offered to train him. Clay won a gold medal as a light heavyweight at the 1960 Olympics, then turned pro, fighting his first bout in his hometown.In 1964 he became heavyweight champion (the youngest ever at the time) with a surprising knockout of Sonny Liston. That year he joined the Nation of Islam and changed his name.Ali's sparkling career was interrupted for 3½ years in the 1960s when he refused induction into the U.S. Army during the Vietnam War and was convicted of draft evasion. The Supreme Court overturned the conviction.Ali was prepared to go to prison, King said. "He'd rather go to jail than break what he believed in."During his boxing hiatus, Ali spoke frequently about racism in America."At a time when blacks who spoke up about injustice were labeled uppity and often arrested under one pretext or another, Muhammad willingly sacrificed the best years of his career to stand tall and fight for what he believed was right," said NBA legend Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, who called Ali a friend and a mentor."In doing so, he made all Americans, black and white, stand taller. I may be 7'2" but I never felt taller than when standing in his shadow."Ali went on to win the heavyweight title twice more before retiring for good in 1981 with a record of 56-5.In an interview with CNN, Ali's brother Rahman Ali said he was sad because "I won't see my brother in the flesh anymore. It's traumatic, I can't see him anymore. Consolation is that I'll see him in heaven."The brother recalled his last words to Ali in a phone conversation: "'I will see you tomorrow, Champ. Take care of yourself.'"Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Since winning a gold medal in the 1960 Olympics, Muhammad Ali has never been far from the public eye. Take a look at the life and career of Ali, the three-time heavyweight boxing champion who called himself "The Greatest." Hide Caption 1 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali, then known as Cassius Clay, poses in his hometown of Louisville, Kentucky, prior to his amateur boxing debut in 1954. He was 12 years old and 85 pounds. As an amateur, he won 100 out of 108 fights. Hide Caption 2 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali rose to prominence at the 1960 Olympic Games in Rome, where he claimed a gold medal in the light-heavyweight division. Hide Caption 3 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali boldly predicted it would take him five rounds to knock out British boxer Henry Cooper ahead of their bout in London in 1963. The fight was stopped in the fifth round as Cooper was bleeding heavily from a cut around his eye. Hide Caption 4 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Patrick Power, 6, takes on Ali in the ring in 1963. Patrick was taking boxing lessons after getting bullied. Hide Caption 5 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali poses for a picture with The Beatles in Miami, during the run-up to his heavyweight title fight against Sonny Liston in 1964. Hide Caption 6 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali celebrates after defeating Liston in Miami on February 25, 1964. Upon becoming world heavyweight champion for the first time, Ali proclaimed, "I am the greatest!" Hide Caption 7 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali relaxes after his win over Liston in 1964. At 22, he became the youngest boxer to take the heavyweight title from a reigning champion. Hide Caption 8 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Civil rights activist Malcolm X, left, takes a picture of a tuxedo-clad Ali surrounded by jubilant fans in March 1964. Shortly after the Liston fight, Ali announced that he had joined the Nation of Islam and changed his name from Cassius Clay. Hide Caption 9 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Known for being as quick with his mouth as he was with his hands, Ali often taunted his opponents. He famously said he could "float like a butterfly, sting like a bee." Hide Caption 10 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali prepares to defend his heavyweight title in 1965. Hide Caption 11 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali stands over Liston during their rematch in Lewiston, Maine, on May 25, 1965. Hide Caption 12 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali eats at a restaurant in 1965. Hide Caption 13 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali The referee pushes Ali to a neutral corner as Floyd Patterson slumps to the canvas in November 1965. The fight was stopped at the end of the 12th round and Ali was declared the winner. Hide Caption 14 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali signs an autograph for a fan in 1966. Hide Caption 15 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali visits a children's home in London in May 1966. Hide Caption 16 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali trains for his second fight against British champion Henry Cooper in May 1966. Hide Caption 17 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali British talk-show host Eamonn Andrews shares a laugh with Ali in May 1966. Hide Caption 18 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali lands a right to the head of Brian London during their bout in London on August 6, 1966. Ali won by a knockout in the third round. Hide Caption 19 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali looks in his hotel-room mirror in February 1967. Hide Caption 20 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali The referee counts as Ali looks down at Zora Folley during a championship fight in New York on March 23, 1967. Ali won by a knockout in the seventh round. Hide Caption 21 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali As a conscientious objector to the Vietnam War, Ali refused induction into the U.S. Army in April 1967. Here, top athletes from various sports gather to support Ali as he gives his reasons for rejecting the draft. Seated in the front row, from left to right, are Bill Russell, Ali, Jim Brown and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. Hide Caption 22 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali walks through the streets of New York with members of the Black Panther Party in September 1970. Ali was sentenced to five years in prison for his refusal to enter the draft, and he was also stripped of his boxing title. The U.S. Supreme Court overturned Ali's conviction in 1971, but by that time Ali had already become a figurehead of resistance and a hero to many. Related: Photographer fondly recalls his three days with Ali Hide Caption 23 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali On November 2, 1970, Ali returned to the ring for his first professional fight in three years. He defeated Jerry Quarry in the third round. Hide Caption 24 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Known as the "Fight of the Century," Ali and Joe Frazier split a $5 million purse to fight for Frazier's title on March 8, 1971, in New York. Frazier won by unanimous decision, handing Ali his first professional loss. Hide Caption 25 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali toys with the finely combed hair of television sports commentator Howard Cosell before the start of the Olympic boxing trials in August 1972. Hide Caption 26 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali and Frazier appear on "The Dick Cavett Show" in January 1974. The two got into a brawl in ABC's New York studio and were fined $5,000 each. Hide Caption 27 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali passes a cheering crowd in Kinshasa, Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of Congo), on September 28, 1974. Ali was in the country to fight George Foreman, who had recently defeated Frazier to win the title. Hide Caption 28 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali and Foreman fight October 30, 1974, in what was billed as "The Rumble in the Jungle." Ali, a huge underdog, knocked out Foreman in the eighth round to regain the title that was stripped from him in 1967. Hide Caption 29 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali addresses a Nation of Islam meeting in London in December 1974. The following year, Ali left the Nation and embraced a more mainstream Islamic faith. Hide Caption 30 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali offers advice to future opponent Richard Dunn in March 1976. Ali defeated Dunn in the fifth round two months later. It was his last knockout win. Hide Caption 31 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali and his third wife, Veronica, second from right, visit the Kremlin in Moscow in June 1978. The two were married from 1977 to 1986. Ali was married four times. Hide Caption 32 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali takes his daily run along a Pennsylvania country road, shrouded in early morning fog, in 1978. Hide Caption 33 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali takes a hit from Leon Spinks during their title fight in New Orleans on September 15, 1978. Ali won by unanimous decision, regaining the title he lost to Spinks earlier that year. Hide Caption 34 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali sits with his daughters Laila and Hana at the Grosvenor House in London in December 1978. He briefly retired from professional boxing the following year. Hide Caption 35 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali came out of retirement on October 2, 1980, for a title fight with Larry Holmes and a guaranteed purse of $8 million. Holmes won easily, beating up Ali until the fight was stopped after the 10th round. Hide Caption 36 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali and Trevor Berbick weigh in for their fight in the Bahamas in December 1981. Berbick won by unanimous decision. It was Ali's last professional fight. Hide Caption 37 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali prays at a mosque in Cairo in October 1986. Two years prior, he revealed that he had Parkinson's syndrome, a disorder of the central nervous system. Hide Caption 38 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali In 1990, Ali met with Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to negotiate the release of 15 American hostages in Iraq and Kuwait. Here, Ali leaves Iraq with the hostages on December 2, 1990. Hide Caption 39 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali lights the Olympic torch at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. Hide Caption 40 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Juan Antonio Samaranch, president of the International Olympic Committee, gives Ali a replacement gold medal in 1996. Ali had thrown his 1960 gold medal into the Ohio River after he was criticized for not fighting in Vietnam. Hide Caption 41 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali and his fourth wife, Lonnie, unveil his special-edition Wheaties box in February 1999. The box marked the cereal's 75th anniversary, and it was the first time a boxer appeared on the cover. Hide Caption 42 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Actor Arnold Schwarzenegger raises Ali's hand during the Celebrity Fight Night charity event in Phoenix in March 2002. Schwarzenegger was presented with the Muhammad Ali Humanitarian Award for his work with the Muhammad Ali Parkinson Research Foundation, the Inner-City Games Foundation and the Special Olympics. The award was presented by former CNN host Larry King, left. Hide Caption 43 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali arrives in Kabul, Afghanistan, in November 2002 for a three-day goodwill mission as a special guest of the United Nations. He was appointed as a U.N. Messenger of Peace in 2000. Hide Caption 44 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali U.S. President George W. Bush presents Ali with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, on November 9, 2005. Hide Caption 45 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Members of the media watch a video of Ali before the grand opening of the Muhammad Ali Center in Louisville, Kentucky, in November 2005. Hide Caption 46 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali's wife, Lonnie, watches as actress Alfre Woodard presents him with the President's Award during the 2009 NAACP Image Awards in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 47 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali On May 24, 2011, Ali appears at the National Press Club in Washington to publicly appeal to Iranian officials for the release of captive hikers Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal. The hikers were released in September 2011, more than two years after their detention. Hide Caption 48 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali poses during a photo shoot outside his home in Paradise Valley, Arizona, in January 2012. Hide Caption 49 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali poses for a picture with, from left, Greg Fischer, Len Amato, daughter Laila Ali and Donald Lassere during the U.S. premiere of the HBO film "Muhammad Ali's Greatest Fight" in October 2013. Hide Caption 50 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali A boxing robe worn by Ali, which belonged to the late country singer Waylon Jennings, went up for auction in 2014. Hide Caption 51 of 52 Photos: Boxing legend Muhammad Ali Ali is seen with singer Carrie Underwood at a charity event in Phoenix in April. Hide Caption 52 of 52Meanwhile, outside the center, some 15,000 bees swarmed a tree across the street next to a mural featuring Ali and his famous quote, "float like a butterfly, sting like a bee."A beekeeper who was called out to the site called it an "exceptional coincidence.""Swarms happen all the time in Louisville, and everywhere, in May and June when bees reproduce," backyard beekeeper Kevin McKinney said."This swarm just happened to land in a tree next to the Muhammad Ali Center and the mural that says, 'float like a butterfly, sting like a bee.' "However, Donald Lassere, president and CEO of the Muhammad Ali Center, had a more cosmic interpretation."The Muhammad Ali Center has always experienced what we have come to know as, 'Muhammad Magic,' but I cannot even conceive as to the genesis of those bees," Lassere said."It's possible his spirit is watching over the center, and he is wanting his fans to know that he is still 'floating like a butterfly and stinging like a bee.'"'A beautiful contradiction'JUST WATCHED Inside Muhammad Ali's final hours Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Inside Muhammad Ali's final hours 01:08The boxing champ had already addressed how he wanted the world to think about him after his death.In his book "The Soul of a Butterfly: Reflections on Life's Journey," Ali said he wanted to be remembered as "a man who won the heavyweight title three times, who was humorous, and who treated everyone right. As a man who never looked down on those who looked up to him, and who helped as many people as he could. As a man who stood up for his beliefs no matter what. As a man who tried to unite all humankind through faith and love."He added, " And if all that's too much, then I guess I'd settle for being remembered only as a great boxer who became a leader and a champion of his people, and I wouldn't even mind if folks forgot how pretty I was."JUST WATCHED David Haye: Muhammad Ali too great to be humble Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH David Haye: Muhammad Ali too great to be humble 00:57He just might get his wish."My father would be so happy right now, so blessed that people are honoring him the way they are," his daughter said.He loved being the center of attention and the object of news reports, even if in recent years it was for being hospitalized, she said."He knew and loved his importance to the world," she said, but he also asked his children if people still remembered him."He was his own biggest fan, but he really was humble," she said. "A beautiful contradiction."