Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Victims honored in Orlando. Heat torches the Southwest. Joy reigns in Cleveland. It's Monday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Orlando mass shootingsThe healing continues, in Orlando and throughout the world, a week after the worst mass shooting in modern American history. Around 50,000 people honored the victims of the Pulse nightclub shooting with a vigil yesterday in an Orlando park. Today the FBI's releasing transcripts of the shooter's phone conversation with the cops during the attack.2. Southwest heat waveDeaths. Wildfires. Flight delays. It's what's happened already during the hottest start to summer ever in California, New Mexico and Arizona. The heat's killed four people -- including two hikers -- in Arizona. A trio of wildfires is burning tens of thousands of acres in the states. It's so hot a flight out of Texas turned around rather than land in Phoenix's oven-like conditions. And don't expect any relief today: Phoenix will hit 116 degrees Fahrenheit; Las Vegas will reach 115: both records. Heck, even L.A. will flirt with the century mark today.3. ISISEvil Inc. has got its hands on sensitive info on U.S. bases around the globe, South Korea's intelligence agency says. ISIS' hackers got details on U.S. air force units in South Korea, including Osan Air Base, and is releasing them to its followers, urging them to use it for attacks. ISIS also put out info on people in 21 countries, including the personal details of an employee of a South Korean welfare organization. That person is now under protection.4. BrexitThe Brexit fight is back on. Campaigning in Britain's referendum on whether to leave the European Union resumed yesterday . Everything came to a halt last week when British lawmaker Jo Cox was murdered. Tributes were paid to Cox -- who supported staying in the EU -- yesterday at a church in the town where she was killed. The Brexit vote is Thursday. Which side will win? Who knows: both the "Leave" and "Remain" campaigns are neck-and-neck in the polls.5. NBARemember when LeBron James left the Cleveland Cavaliers in 2010 and the Cavs owner put out that insane open letter (in Comic Sans font, no less) where he called King James "heartless and callous?" Guess all's forgiven now in Cleveland, cause last night James led the Cavs to their first NBA championship -- the city's first title of any kind in over half a century. It's the third ring for James, and the sweetest for the Akron, Ohio, native, who joined the Cavs in 2014 specifically to bring a title back home.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:"I am here to run a police department, not a frat house."Mayor Libby Schaaf, announcing the California city was Oakland, announcing the California city was losing its third police chief in nine days . Oakland's police department's been roiled by both sex and racist text message scandals.Light brightLight reigns today and tonight: It's the summer solstice , the longest day of the year, but wait there's more! There will be light tonight too, thanks to a full moon.Mmmm, yummyThis futuristic-looking pod can both house and feed you -- with crickets -- during an extreme emergency. Which it would have to be if we're going to eat that.Money makerPicasso can still make it rain: One of his earliest Cubist paintings, "Femme Assise," will be auctioned off Tuesday, probably for about $40 million.That's what babies are forFather's Day is over, but dads everywhere keep the fun going with the Cheerio Challenge, where they stack towers of cereal on their sleeping children.Kind of blueNumber of the day65.3 millionThe number of refugees in 2015 , according to a report from the United Nation's refugee agency. That equals one out of every 113 people on Earth.AND FINALLY ...embedcodeBustedTwo dogs get caught stealing treats from the kitchen, but their "who us?" expressions are so cute, they'll probably get away with it.