(CNN) From global leaders and pop stars to top athletes, the world paused to remember boxing legend Muhammad Ali, who dazzled with his lightning-fast jabs, his equally quick wit and unwavering principles.The famed boxer and icon died Friday at the age of 74 , after spending 32 years fighting Parkinson's disease. His name trended all over social media with hashtags such as the Greatest of All Time or #GOAT for short, and Rest in Power"To the African-American community, he was a black man who faced overwhelming bigotry the way he faced every opponent in the ring: fearlessly," wrote NBA legend Kareem Abdul-Jabbar on Facebook.Tributes came from his once-fiercest foes in the ring.George Foreman, the two-time heavyweight champion who lost to Ali in the 1974 Rumble in the Jungle, mourned the man he called "the greatest piece."Until Ali no one said "I'm beautiful" he was royalty, yet common man was his pal. That is beauty. Greatest kind pic.twitter.com/uX7htKHrGc — George Foreman (@GeorgeForeman) June 4, 2016Ralph Ali, Frazier & Foreman we were 1 guy. A part of me slipped away, "The greatest piece" https://t.co/xVKOc9qtub — George Foreman (@GeorgeForeman) June 4, 2016Admirers shared his amazing skill in the ring -- how he appeared to bob and weave without effort, how his feet moved swiftly in a cartoonish blur.Videos captured how precisely and quickly Ali moved, artfully dodging dozens of blows in a matter of seconds.Muhammad Ali dodging 21 punches in 10 seconds. RIP GOAT. @timelesssports #TimelessSports A video posted by Timeless Sports (@timelesssports) on Jun 3, 2016 at 10:25pm PDTHis speed and athleticism seemed so other worldly that even DC Comics had to show its appreciation of "a true superhero."Today we lost a true superhero. You will be missed, Muhammad Ali. pic.twitter.com/4qocEYFfzp — DC (@DCComics) June 4, 2016Fans remembered him beyond his athletic skills, including his stand against the Vietnam War draft -- even when such a position was unpopular. That steadfastness won him respect, boxing promoter Don King told CNN."People who didn't like him had to respect him," he said.Soccer legend Pele posted an Instagram photo of himself, kissing Ali on the cheek."The sporting universe has just suffered a big loss," Pele wrote. "Muhammad Ali was my friend, my idol, my hero."Former boxing world champion Manny Pacquiao tweeted, "We lost a giant today."We lost a giant today. You will always be GOAT. Our hearts and prayers go out to the Ali family. May God bless them. pic.twitter.com/g7s6GETODG — Manny Pacquiao (@mannypacquiao) June 4, 2016"He was one of my inspirations," Pacquiao told CNN. "His accomplishments, we will never forget."Former astronaut Buzz Aldrin tweeted a photo of the day in 1988 that he rode with Ali in California's Rose Parade: "The world has lost The Greatest!"I first met #MuhammadAli when we rode in the Rose Parade together in 1988. The world has lost The Greatest! pic.twitter.com/kYervQSlWh — Buzz Aldrin (@TheRealBuzz) June 4, 2016Paul McCartney tweeted the image of Ali and the Beatles.Paul on the passing of Muhammad Ali: https://t.co/AfhcmeL4Vq pic.twitter.com/2wuQdrAtJf — Paul McCartney (@PaulMcCartney) June 4, 2016To President Barack Obama, Ali "shook up the world, and the world's better for it."He shook up the world, and the world's better for it. Rest in peace, Champ. pic.twitter.com/z1yM3sSLH3 — President Obama (@POTUS) June 4, 2016To African-Americans, he was a hero who refused to bow in the face of racism.THANK YOU & GOOD NIGHT TO THE GREATEST OF ALL TIME. YOU'VE WON MORE BATTLES THAN WE KNOW. #RIP MUHAMMAD ALI. pic.twitter.com/W2a9slGi0O — jesseWilliams. (@iJesseWilliams) June 4, 2016"I've made my share of mistakes...if I've changed even 1 life for the better, I haven't lived in vain."Muhammed Ali...RIPU changed my life. — Forest Whitaker (@ForestWhitaker) June 4, 2016"I am the greatest. I said that even before I knew I was." rest in peace to a Legend. #GOAT A photo posted by Usher (@usher) on Jun 3, 2016 at 10:14pm PDTA giant among men, Ali displayed a greatness in talent, courage & conviction, that most of us will EVER be able to truly comprehend. #RIPAli — Lennox Lewis (@LennoxLewis) June 4, 2016The world has lost a Legend and real Champion. #RIPMuhammadAli pic.twitter.com/0CHBR7od5N — Oprah Winfrey (@Oprah) June 4, 2016It was clear that the once-controversial boxer had been embraced into the mainstream.Muhammad Ali was not just a champion in the ring - he was a champion of civil rights, and a role model for so many people. — David Cameron (@David_Cameron) June 4, 2016Muhammad Ali is dead at 74! A truly great champion and a wonderful guy. He will be missed by all! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 4, 2016Don't judge those running for office by the eloquence of their tributes to Ali, but how they would treat a 20 year old version of him now. — Tom Fletcher (@TFletcher) June 4, 2016Muhammed Ali lost his long fight with Parkinson's.I will never forget his lighting the torch at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics- a world champion. — Newt Gingrich (@newtgingrich) June 4, 2016Ali was a man who was proud of his religion and had changed his name to reflect his faith.W. Kamau Bell, host of CNN's "United Shades of America," tweeted to "also remember that he was a Muslim."Now's a great time to preemptively remind everyone who is gonna be celebrating Muhammad Ali tomorrow to also remember that he was a Muslim. — W. Kamau Bell (@wkamaubell) June 4, 2016We are mourning Muhammad Ali. A Black man & a Muslim. Two things America fears. But tonight, we unite in profound sadness. #RIPAli — Hari Kondabolu (@harikondabolu) June 4, 2016Thomas Hauser, author of "Muhammad Ali: His Life and Times," said Ali's greatest legacy was the spirit of a man who "moved very deeply into hearts and souls not just in the United States but throughout the world. And all of us now carry some of Muhammad Ali in us."He told CNN, "I think his greatest contribution to humanity is that there was an aura of pure goodwill and love about him. By his example he taught a lot of people how to love."