Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case James "Whitey" Bulger, the former head of Boston's Winter Hill Gang, evaded police for 16 years before his 2011 arrest with girlfriend Catherine Greig in Santa Monica, California. After a lengthy trial, Bulger, seen here in his booking photo from June 23, 2011, was found guilty on 31 of 32 counts -- including involvement in 11 murders. On November 14, 2013, Bulger was given two life sentences plus five years. Here's a look at some of the people tied to Bulger's life of crime: Hide Caption 1 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case James "Whitey" Bulger, seen here in a 1984 FBI photo, spent nine years in federal prison before he climbed the ranks of the Winter Hill Gang -- the preeminent Irish-American crime syndicate in the Boston area -- in the early 1970s. Hide Caption 2 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case According to prosecutors, Bulger's crew learned that a bookie named Richard Castucci was cooperating with the government, and John Martorano was sent to kill him. Castucci was shot in the head in December 1976 and stuffed in a sleeping bag in the back of his car. Hide Caption 3 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case Steve "The Rifleman" Flemmi, left, and bookie Dick O'Brien in one of several surveillance photographs entered into evidence in the Bulger trial. Flemmi, Bulger's partner, would meet O'Brien to collect thousands of dollars in "rent" every month. Hide Caption 4 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case Bulger is accused of murdering Flemmi's stepdaughter, Deborah Hussey, in 1985 because she became a liability. Hide Caption 5 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case Flemmi met Debra Davis at a jewelry store, and the couple dated for more than seven years. In 1981, Bulger is said to have killed Davis because she knew that Flemmi was an informant. Hide Caption 6 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case Dr. Ann Marie Mires, a Massachusetts state forensic anthropologist, was brought in to Bulger's trial to show photos of his alleged victims, including Debra Davis. Because Davis' body was put into bags, almost all of her remains were recovered. Even some of her hair was preserved. Hide Caption 7 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case Mug shots of Bulger in 1953, about a year after his honorable discharge from the U.S. Air Force. Hide Caption 8 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case Bulger was the godfather to John Martorano's first son. Martorano has admitted to 20 killings as part of Boston's Winter Hill Gang and was the government's star witness against Bulger. Hide Caption 9 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case In 2008, John Martorano, pictured here, testified against former FBI agent John Connolly, who was accused of leaking sensitive information about former gambling executive John Callahan. Martorano testified that he shot his friend Callahan on Bulger's orders in 1982. Hide Caption 10 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case John Callahan was an organized crime associate of the Winter Hill Gang and former president of World Jai Alai. Prosecutors allege Bulger ordered a hit on Callahan after he learned he would be cooperating with the feds on the high-profile murder of an Oklahoma businessman, Roger Wheeler. Hide Caption 11 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case Bulger is accused in the slaying of Wheeler, who was gunned down outside a country club in Oklahoma in 1981. Hide Caption 12 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case Joe Notorangeli was gunned down by the Winter Hill gang in 1973, according to Martorano. Hide Caption 13 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case John Connolly was convicted of second-degree murder in the slaying of Callahan and received a 40-year sentence in 2009. Connolly is appealing. Hide Caption 14 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case Former FBI supervisor John Morris testified at Bulger's trial that he provided information to Bulger in exchange for money and gifts. Here, Morris testifies during the John Connolly murder trial in Miami in 2008. Hide Caption 15 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case Bulger's girlfriend, Catherine Greig, was sentenced to eight years in federal prison in 2012 for identity fraud and helping the reputed mob boss avoid capture for 16 years. Hide Caption 16 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case J.W. Carney, Bulger's defense attorney, arrives at the U.S. Federal Courthouse for the start of Bulger's trial in Boston on Wednesday, June 12, 2013. Hide Caption 17 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case This undated surveillance photo released by the U.S. Attorney's Office in Boston shows Bulger, left, with his former right-hand man, Kevin Weeks. Weeks took the witness stand at Bulger's racketeering trial and described a double slaying, multiple extortions and drug dealing. Hide Caption 18 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case Bulger and Kevin Weeks walk around Castle Island on Boston Harbor. Hide Caption 19 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case Kevin Weeks leaves the courthouse in July 2013 after testifying in graphic detail about how Bulger killed Arthur "Bucky" Barrett, Joey McIntyre and Deborah Hussey. Hide Caption 20 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case The remains of Thomas King, former member of the Winter Hill Gang, were found in late 2000 and included these driving gloves, a bulletproof vest, a navy suit, and a claddagh ring. Martorano, one of Bulger's hitmen, testified that he himself had shot King in the back of the head. Hide Caption 21 of 23Photos: Who's who in the James 'Whitey' Bulger case Stephen Rakes, 59, was scheduled to be a witness for the prosecution before he was dropped from the list. His body was found July 17, 2013, in Lincoln, Massachusetts, west of Boston. Rakes' business associate has been charged with his murder. Authorities said Rakes' killing was unrelated to the Bulger case. Hide Caption 22 of 23