(CNN) Turkey wants to kiss and make up. Saudi Arabia wants to build a shape-shifting tower. And we want you to pay attention to the climate talks. It's Monday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .CLIMATE CONFERENCE: You really should pay attention to the climate change conference going on in Paris . Only because THE FATE OF THE WORLD AS WE KNOW IT IS AT STAKE! If the Earth's temperature goes up by just two degrees, every aspect of our life will be affected. If you think the refugee crisis is tragic now, think of when rising seas eat away cities. If you think the wildfires out West are bad, imagine ones that are 800% larger. Water supplies will dry up. Hurricanes will get more intense. That's why world leaders are meeting in Paris. That's why you should pay attentionPLANNED PARENTHOOD SHOOTING: Even staunch opponents in the abortion debate agree: What Robert Lewis Dear is accused of is "domestic terrorism." Police say the 57-year-old shot up a Colorado Planned Parenthood clinic on Friday, killing three and wounding nine. He told authorities he's anti-abortion and he talked about "baby parts." He gave up after a six-hour standoff , but the rampage could have been worse: Cops found propane tanks near Dear's car and think he planned to shoot them to cause an explosion. He goes before a judge today.TURKEY RUSSIA TENSIONSWe need to talk: That's Turkish President Recep Tayyip : That's Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's message to Russia after days of tough-guy posturing between Ankara and Moscow. The two sides have been at each other's throats since Turkey shot down a Russian jet near its border with Syria. The pilot died. Turkey says the plane was in its airspace; Russia it was bombing ISIS targets. A ticked-off Vladimir Putin slapped Turkey with some sanctions. Now, Erdogan's saying 'Can't we all just get along?' Russia's response: Not until you apologize . To be continued ...JUST WATCHED Body of Russian pilot to be returned by Turkey Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Body of Russian pilot to be returned by Turkey 01:11FREDDIE GRAY CASEThe whole truth and nothing but: From the day news got out that Freddie Gray had died, the truth has been hard to pin down: How did a 40-minute ride in a police van turned fatal? Now, answers to those questions will be in the hands of a 12-person jury, whose selection begins today. Each of the six officers charged will be tried separately. From the day news got out that Freddie Gray had died, the truth has been hard to pin down: How did a 40-minute ride in a police van turned fatal? Now, answers to those questions will be in the hands of a 12-person jury, whose selection begins today. Each of the six officers charged will be tried separately. The first in court is Officer William G. PorterJUST WATCHED First trial in Freddie Gray case pushed to November Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH First trial in Freddie Gray case pushed to November 01:45SAUDI ARABIA ELECTIONSWomen distribute leaflets to raise awareness among citizens to participate in the upcoming municipal elections on August 21 in Al Dammam, Saudi, Arabia.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:"My heart can take the poundingMy mind can handle the grindBut my body knows it's time to say goodbye"-- Kobe Bryant, announcing he'll call it quits after this season, in a retirement poemYour world. DeliveredThe NSA has stopped bulk collecting phone records . Now, it'll collect them in a more "targeted" way. Because when you worry about privacy, the NSA listens.Time to up your selfie game, AmericaIf your selfie doesn't include a bald eagle , don't even bother. These Canadian brothers have already won the Internet.Good CharlottePrince William and Catherine have released two new pix of their precious -- and your Monday just got a little brighter. Squee!The Duke and Duchess hope everyone enjoys these new photos of Princess Charlotte as much as they do. pic.twitter.com/ylZ7VvOuIY — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) November 29, 2015Honey, the cable's outTurns out there's a perfectly reasonable explanation for those cars that seemed to suddenly levitate at an intersection in China: A cable on the street got tangled , tightened up and acted like a tripwire.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up later.Men behaving badlyRap mogul Suge Knight and comedian Katt Williams have pretrial hearings. They're accused of stealing a photographer's camera . So not cool, dudes.Shop till you ... spot your boss walking byNumber of the day:1 kilometerAnd finally ...So sweet the soundWe hereby proclaim that every college marching band should take a cue from USC's Spirit of Troy and henceforth include a guitar god - namely Slash. Make it happen.