(CNN) From the day news got out that Freddie Gray had died , the purported goal of everyone involved -- from Gray's family to city officials, to the news media, to the people of Baltimore -- was to determine what happened to the 25-year-old man from the West Side.Sgt. Alicia White was present during one of the stops to check on Gray's condition. She and two other officers saw Gray unresponsive on the floor of the van, and when White spoke to Gray and he did not respond, she allegedly did nothing to help him, prosecutors said. All charges were dropped against White, who had been indicted on charges of involuntary manslaughter, second-degree negligent assault, misconduct in office and reckless endangerment.Sgt. Alicia White was present during one of the stops to check on Gray's condition. She and two other officers saw Gray unresponsive on the floor of the van, and when White spoke to Gray and he did not respond, she allegedly did nothing to help him, prosecutors said. All charges were dropped against White, who had been indicted on charges of involuntary manslaughter, second-degree negligent assault, misconduct in office and reckless endangerment.Garrett Miller was another one of the bike officers involved in Gray's arrest. He placed Gray in a restraining technique known as a "leg lace" before Gray was placed in the van, said Marilyn Mosby, the state's attorney for Baltimore. All charges were dropped against Miller, who had been indicted on charges of second-degree intentional assault, two counts of misconduct in office and reckless endangerment.Garrett Miller was another one of the bike officers involved in Gray's arrest. He placed Gray in a restraining technique known as a "leg lace" before Gray was placed in the van, said Marilyn Mosby, the state's attorney for Baltimore. All charges were dropped against Miller, who had been indicted on charges of second-degree intentional assault, two counts of misconduct in office and reckless endangerment., one of three bike officers involved in the initial police encounter with Gray, was found not guilty of all charges in May. He was accused of second-degree intentional assault, two counts of misconduct in office and reckless endangerment.was the first of the six officers to face a trial. It ended in a mistrial in December, and he had been scheduled to be retried before prosecutors dropped the charges against him. Porter was summoned by the van's driver to check on Gray during stops on the way to a police station. Prosecutors said Porter should have called a medic for Gray sooner than one was eventually called, and they said he also should have ensured that Gray was wearing a seat belt. Porter had been charged with involuntary manslaughter, second-degree assault, reckless endangerment and misconduct in office.Officerdrove the van in which Gray was fatally injured. On June 23, Goodson was found not guilty on all charges, including the most serious count of second-degree depraved-heart murder.Six Baltimore police officers were charged in the April 2015 death of Freddie Gray, who died of a severe spinal-cord injury while in police custody. But there were no convictions in the case. Three of the officers were acquitted before prosecutors dropped the charges against the remaining three in July 2016 . Seen here is, who was part of the bike patrol that arrested Gray. On July 18, 2016, Rice was found not guilty of involuntary manslaughter, reckless endangerment and misconduct in office in connection with Gray's arrest and death.But the truth has been difficult to pin down, and now answers to those questions will be in the hands of a 12-person jury to be selected beginning Monday.What remains unanswered is how Gray suffered a fatal spinal cord injury while in police custody. He died in the hospital one week after his April 12 arrestAn independent investigation by Baltimore Prosecutor Marilyn Mosby's office, along with the medical examiner's determination that Gray's death was a homicide , gave prosecutors what they needed to file criminal charges against six Baltimore police officers in May.Porter is charged with one count of involuntary manslaughter, second-degree assault, misconduct in office and reckless endangerment.One looming question: Can these officers get a fair and unbiased jury in a city rocked by protests and riotsThe Sixth Amendment to the Constitution guarantees a defendant's right to a fair trial and public trial proceedings.Secrecy continues to surround the case, but the court has its reasons.The gag orderOn October 14, Judge Barry Williams banned prosecutors and the officers' defense attorneys from discussing the case outside their legal teams, saying, "There is a substantial likelihood that certain forms of publicity, such as extrajudicial statements by the parties involved in this case to members of the press or media, could impair the rights of the Defendant, the State and the public to a fair trial by jury."Photos: Baltimore protests Photos: Baltimore protests People hold hands during a rally at Baltimore City Hall on Sunday, May 3. The death of Freddie Gray, who died in police custody, sparked rioting in Baltimore and protests across the country Hide Caption 1 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Members of the National Guard board a truck at an armory staging area on May 3 in Baltimore. After a night of relatively peaceful protests, the city lifted a curfew , the National Guard is preparing its exit and a mall that had been a flashpoint in the protests has been reopened. Hide Caption 2 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Medics take a man away after police pepper-sprayed him on Saturday, May 2, in Baltimore's Sandtown neighborhood where Freddie Gray was arrested in April. Hide Caption 3 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police detain a man on May 2 in Baltimore's Sandtown neighborhood. Hide Caption 4 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters hold signs on May 2 in the Sandtown neighborhood. Hide Caption 5 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters march from the Gilmor Homes housing community, where Freddie Gray was arrested, to City Hall on Saturday, May 2, in Baltimore. Hide Caption 6 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police in riot gear enforce a 10 p.m. curfew and clear Baltimore streets of protesters and media on Friday, May 1. Hide Caption 7 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests U.S. Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Maryland, helps clear Baltimore streets of protesters on May 1. Hide Caption 8 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators celebrate the announcement that six officers were charged May 1 in Gray's death. Hide Caption 9 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators march through the streets of Baltimore after the charges against the officers were announced May 1. Hide Caption 10 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police on horseback block a Baltimore street on May 1. Hide Caption 11 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A demonstrator celebrates in Baltimore the charges were announced on May 1. Hide Caption 12 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A member of the National Guard stands outside Baltimore City Hall as protesters gather on Wednesday, April 29. Hide Caption 13 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests High school and college students march from Baltimore's Penn Station to City Hall on April 29. Hide Caption 14 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A community organizer later identified as Joseph Kent paces in front of riot police with his hands up during a curfew in Baltimore on Tuesday, April 28. Moments later, he was seen being arrested by police live on CNN . Kent's lawyer said on April 30 that his client had been released from jail. While some protesters defied the curfew and faced off with police, demonstrations Tuesday were largely peaceful. Hide Caption 15 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests State Sen. Catherine E. Pugh embraces a protester while urging the crowd to disperse ahead of the 10 p.m. curfew. Hide Caption 16 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People attempt to stop protesters from approaching a police line on April 28. Hide Caption 17 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A Baltimore police captain tries to calm a protester on April 28. Hide Caption 18 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Two women sweep up the streets in Baltimore -- reflected in the broken window of a storefront on April 28. See more photos of the cleanup efforts. Hide Caption 19 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A band plays music during protests on April 28 in Baltimore. Hide Caption 20 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A boy in Baltimore offers water to a police officer on April 28. Hide Caption 21 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Jerrie Mckenny, left, and her sister Tia Sexton embrace as demonstrators hold hands and sing the hymn "Amazing Grace" in Baltimore on April 28. Hide Caption 22 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators stand in front of a police line and call for peace after a bottle was thrown on April 28. Hide Caption 23 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Maryland National Guardsmen patrol the streets on April 28. Hide Caption 24 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests The remains of a senior center smolder on April 28. Riots broke out Monday, April 27, after Freddie Gray's funeral Hide Caption 25 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police retreat from burned-out cars in an intersection on Monday, April 27. Hide Caption 26 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Firefighters respond to a burning building during the riots late April 27. Hide Caption 27 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer walks by a burning building on April 27. Hide Caption 28 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police stand guard on April 27. Hide Caption 29 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters climb on a destroyed Baltimore Police car in the street near the corner of Pennsylvania and North avenues on April 27. Hide Caption 30 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A mixture of milk and water rolls down a man's chest after he was pepper sprayed by the Baltimore Police April 27. Hide Caption 31 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A man rides a bicycle through heavy smoke emitting from a nearby store on fire April 27. Hide Caption 32 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A man shouts for calm as protesters clash with police April 27. Hide Caption 33 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police carry an injured officer from the streets near Mondawmin Mall in Baltimore on April 27. Hide Caption 34 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People carrying goods leave a CVS pharmacy near Pennsylvania and North avenues on April 27. Hide Caption 35 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A demonstrator raises his fist as police stand in formation on April 27. Hide Caption 36 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Armored cars drive down Pennsylvania Avenue as looters break into shops on April 27. Hide Caption 37 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People lock arms and form a line opposing police at the corner of Pennsylvania and North avenues on April 27. Hide Caption 38 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police form a barrier between protesters and a burning CVS being attended to by firefighters on April 27. Hide Caption 39 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People carry goods out of a CVS pharmacy on April 27. Hide Caption 40 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police vehicle burns April 27. Hide Caption 41 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer throws an object at protesters on April 27. Hide Caption 42 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A man carries items from a store as police vehicles burn on April 27. Hide Caption 43 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer checks on a man who was injured on April 27. Hide Caption 44 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer is carried to safety after being hit in the head with a rock during the riot on April 27. Hide Caption 45 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer uses pepper spray on rioters on April 27. Hide Caption 46 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police officers push back a protester on April 27. Hide Caption 47 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police react during the riot on April 27. Hide Caption 48 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Baltimore police officers in riot gear look toward protesters near Mondawmin Mall on April 27. Hide Caption 49 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony Batts chases away protesters in a parking lot on April 27. Hide Caption 50 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A woman abandons her car in the middle of an intersection as Baltimore Police officers clash with protesters outside the Mondawmin Mall in Baltimore on April 27. Hide Caption 51 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police handle the protesters during a riot on April 27. Hide Caption 52 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A demonstrator taunts police on April 27. Hide Caption 53 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters stand off with police during a march in honor of Gray in Baltimore on Saturday, April 25. Hide Caption 54 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A protester throws a barricade at a bar near Oriole Park at Camden Yards after a rally on April 25. Hide Caption 55 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters chase after a car as it drives in reverse after the rally on April 25. Hide Caption 56 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A protester breaks a store window after the rally in Baltimore on April 25. Hide Caption 57 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters get into a shoving match with police during a march downtown on April 25. Hide Caption 58 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters and police square off April 25. Hide Caption 59 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters drive through the Camden Yards area on April 25. Hide Caption 60 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Members of the Baltimore Police Department stand guard Thursday, April 23, outside the department's Western District station during a protest. Hide Caption 61 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer films protesters from the steps of the Western District station on April 23. Hide Caption 62 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Empowerment Temple Pastor Jamal Harrison Bryant speaks in front of City Hall in Baltimore on April 23. Hide Caption 63 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators put their fists in the air during a protest outside the Baltimore police's Western District station on Wednesday, April 22. Hide Caption 64 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Hundreds of demonstrators march toward the Western District station on April 22. Hide Caption 65 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People march through the streets of Baltimore on April 22. Hide Caption 66 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators argue with Baltimore officers during the protest on April 22. Hide Caption 67 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A woman is comforted during the protest on April 22. Hide Caption 68 of 68But before the court issued the gag order, CNN learned the defense's strategy will focus on what happened during a 40-minute ride in a police van when Gray was injured.The defense told CNN it will contend Gray's death was tragic -- but an accident. Gray, though handcuffed and shackled, struggled to his knees and pitched forward when the van came to a stop, causing the injuries that killed him, the defense says."They're going to argue exactly that, this was a normal stop, or maybe he just fell down on his own while the vehicle was moving, or maybe it was a combination of forces of Mr. Gray falling down or losing his balance at the same time the vehicle was stopping," said Andrew Alperstein, a CNN legal analyst who is not involved in this case.Richard Waites, an attorney, psychologist and trial consultant based in Washington, said he's seen a trend of judges being guarded with how much information they allow the public to know before a trial begins.He attributes the trend, at least in part, to communication technology, from text messaging to tweeting, that can disseminate information in seconds and potentially taint a jury pool."One of the things that I am seeing, not just in Baltimore but in other places, is an overuse of gag orders," Waites said. "The proper use of a gag order is to protect a party's rights of some kind. To protect information from going out to the public because it might cause problems -- I don't think that's a proper use of gag orders."Acknowledging the public's right to know at the end of the gag order, Williams writes, "Nothing in this Order shall be construed to limit any rights of the media or the public."Riding the benchThe gag order means journalists and the public can access only filed court motions, along with the proceedings in open court.At pretrial hearings for the six police officers, some observers noted extensive bench conferences between the parties that can't be heard by those in the gallery. What is said remains a mystery, and although sidebars are considered on the record, written transcripts can't be currently reviewed by the public or media -- a move suggesting an attempt to strike a balance between preserving a fair trial for defendant Porter and the public's right to know.Cameras are not allowed in Maryland criminal trial courts. In our modern age of electronic media, a large number of high-profile state trials permit journalists in the courtroom to transmit notes of the testimony to their readers or viewers as it happens via laptops or smartphones. But this is not the case in Maryland without the express permission of the presiding judge, and it won't be allowed in Porter's trial.Reporters can take notes, of course, and later report, but they are barred from emailing or texting trial information in real time. The judge's motivation for this rule is unclear.So can the trials be fair?For all the precautions taken to restrict and control information related to the case, Porter's trial is still taking place only seven months after Baltimore was hit with violent rioting and looting following the death of Gray . Buildings were burned and a citywide curfew likely affected many in the jury pool.JUST WATCHED Newly released footage shows riots erupting in Baltimore Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Newly released footage shows riots erupting in Baltimore 01:45Waites, who is not involved in the Porter trial, believes those in the community should still be able to be fair and impartial if selected for the jury."They won't remember the details of the police activity or the details of the arrest of Freddie Gray or the events that happened after that, when the van driver called for backup, which are the events that involve Mr. Porter," he said.Additionally, Waites believes Porter will be able to get a fair trial because he predicts "a lot of the anger and active rage about what happened has sort of subsided a great deal."Jurors won't be sequesteredAs far as getting that fair jury, Waites says an extensive jury questionnaire would be the best way to learn about opinions that jurors have already formed and biases they hold based on their life experiences.A recent defense motion states that jury selection, known as voir dire, has been extremely limited by Williams. At the final pretrial hearing in the case on Tuesday, nothing was said about a jury questionnaire.What was announced was that 75 to 80 potential jurors will be in the pool for jury selection, and they will not be sequestered despite a defense request.Jury selection also is a public proceeding in our nation's courtrooms.In this case starting Monday, initial questions for potential jurors will take place in open court, but further individual interviews will be conducted in a conference room, on the record, but outside the earshot of anyone else.Many high-profile trials have some individual juror questioning, inside the courtroom, so the public can hear jurors' answers, especially on issues of pretrial publicity -- how much a juror already knows about a case and why he or she can or cannot be fair. Other prospective jurors are kept in a separate room so they cannot become tainted by other jurors' answers. Sensitive issues with jurors are always discussed privately.In these particular trials, where police officers are the defendants, Waites said the "perfect" juror for each side may have a role reversal.JUST WATCHED Retracing Freddie Gray's last steps in Baltimore Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Retracing Freddie Gray's last steps in Baltimore 02:38Usually, he said, the state wants jurors that are law enforcement-oriented and "by the book." But here, that profile may be the ideal juror for the defense. Waites added not all police-oriented jurors may sympathize with these defendants, and attorneys will want to scrutinize people who are pro-law enforcement because some of these people "will hold these police officers to a higher standard, and very often other police officers will do that."One type of prospective juror the court should be wary of, Waites said, is the juror who wants to become famous by being on such a high-profile jury. A book or television appearance can be very appealing to some people.One way to weed out "stealth jurors," as they are called, according to Waites, is by looking at their social media profiles. They can give a wealth of information, he said. Nearly two-thirds of American adults, 65%, use social networking sites, according to Pew Research's October 2015 Social Media Usage Report.Prospective jurors can go from wanting to be on the jury to not wanting to be on the jury, and some can actually be frightened that they could become targets in the community based on their decisions to convict or acquit, said Waites. This may or may not be a reason to be dismissed from jury selection.Waites also said that picking a jury in Baltimore is driven by the judge, not the attorneys on either side. Williams, he said, is "going to want to do whatever he can to protect the defendant's rights during jury selection, so he will give the defense some leeway in their asking questions."What if an impartial jury can't be selected?If, during the course of jury selection, it is determined that a fair and impartial jury cannot be selected, the judge has several options, Waites said, including bringing in more potential jurors. A change of venue to another city in Maryland does not have to be the immediate decision.On the other hand, while the Sixth Amendment guarantees a defendant's right to a jury of his peers, Porter can, up until jury selection begins, opt to forgo a jury and ask for a bench trial where Williams alone would be both judge and jury.Waites said this can have pros and cons. Porter and his attorneys will really have to look at Williams through the same filter they use to find that "ideal" juror, because although a judge's role is to be fair and impartial, the reality is "a judge is a person, too, and he is susceptible to the same influences that jurors are."Williams summed up his belief in the residents of Baltimore County in his denial of the defense motion for change of venue"The issue then becomes whether the citizens of Baltimore are capable of listening to the facts as presented in the courtroom in coming to a decision based only on those facts and the law presented to them by the court. ... To automatically assume that the citizens of our city cannot provide the defendants with a fair and impartial trial would be quite a leap."