Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A deceased terrorist. A released spy. And the imprisoned ex-Subway guy. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.PARIS ATTACKS: Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the suspected ringleader of the Paris attacks, is dead . He was blown to bits during Wednesday's police raid at the suburban Parisian apartment where he was holed up. So, it's time for you to learn the name of another suspected attacker: Salah Abdeslam. He was last seen on his way toward Belgium hours after the attack. French police stopped him but then let him go, not realizing he was linked to the bloodbath in the capital. Now, h e could be anywhereJONATHAN POLLARDSpy games: Jonathan Pollard was a Navy intelligence specialist who leaked top-secret docs not to a U.S. foe but a friend, Israel. Still, the government argued, stealing is stealing. They threw him in prison for 30 years and repeatedly fought his release. So much so, the case became a nagging irritant in U.S.-Israeli relations. The good news for Pollard: : Jonathan Pollard was a Navy intelligence specialist who leaked top-secret docs not to a U.S. foe but a friend, Israel. Still, the government argued, stealing is stealing. They threw him in prison for 30 years and repeatedly fought his release. So much so, the case became a nagging irritant in U.S.-Israeli relations. The good news for Pollard: He'll be released today . The bad news: He can't go to Israel.JUST WATCHED Who is Jonathan Pollard? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Jonathan Pollard? 02:50IMMIGRATIONJARED FOGLESub-human: It's easy to make cheap jokes about ex-Subway pitchman Jared Fogle. But what he did is no laughing matter. He not only peddled in child porn; he had sex with kids. (His lawyer, seeking leniency, actually argued Fogle only had sex with girls who were 16 and 17; not, you know, younger children). At a hearing yesterday, a tearful Fogle struggled to explain his actions. "Where do I even try to begin?" He'll have plenty of time for reflection. : It's easy to make cheap jokes about ex-Subway pitchman Jared Fogle. But what he did is no laughing matter. He not only peddled in child porn; he had sex with kids. (His lawyer, seeking leniency, actually argued Fogle only had sex with girls who were 16 and 17; not, you know, younger children). At a hearing yesterday, a tearful Fogle struggled to explain his actions. "Where do I even try to begin?" He'll have plenty of time for reflection. He'll be spending the next 15 years in prisonJUST WATCHED Ex-Subway pitchman caught via creepy audio tapes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ex-Subway pitchman caught via creepy audio tapes 03:46HOTEL SIEGEUnder fire: Two armed men have taken Two armed men have taken 170 people hostage at the Radisson Blu hotel in Mali's capital, Bamako. No one's claimed responsibility, but it could be anyone. Three months ago , there was a similar incident in which the attackers belonged not to ISIS but to another Islamist group, the Macina Liberation Movement. (Their goal:bring the Malian military to its knees) Today's attack is troubling because just yesterday, French President Francois Hollande talked about how his troops had successfully beaten the Islamists in Mali.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these stories. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day: "Women find it very difficult at times - some women - to find music"-- Jimmy Iovine, while touting Apple Music's curated playlists , proves that while he's got a great ear for discovering talent, he's tone-deaf when it comes to women.Ex's and the oh, oh, oh's they haunt me: Not anymore. Facebook's : Not anymore. Facebook's new 'Take a break' feature limits what you see about your ex. Or, you could always just unfriend her.All our agents are busy assisting other fanatics:Burning love:How low can it go?Just in time for Thanksgiving, gas prices are at their lowest level in six years . It's like 2009 all over again (minus the recession, of course).WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up later.It's Friday, I'm in loveThe world is over. Adele just dropped. My wife is losing it right now. I've already heard HELLO 5093498273 times. I ain't even mad tho. — Andy Mineo (@AndyMineo) November 20, 2015AND FINALLYYour moment of ZenWe always thought cuddle parties were kind of hokey. That is, until we witnessed an otter cuddle puddle!