It's Tuesday, and here are five things to know for your new day.MISSOURI TURMOIL: College football is king on campus. And at Missouri the king sacked the president. Black students said their complaints about racism fell on deaf ears for months. Then black players said they wouldn't play until system president Tim Wolfe was gone . Less than 48 hours later, Wolfe headed for the sidelines. Now that's power. Will the campus heal now? That's anyone's guess at this point. As football coach Gary Pinkel said, "there's no playbook" for what happens next at Mizzou.IMMIGRATIONLaw and border: Just like in the Obamacare battles, the President may have to go to his favorite place -- the Supreme Court -- to get his immigration plans back on track. Yesterday a federal appeals court gave a big, fat nope to President Obama's Just like in the Obamacare battles, the President may have to go to his favorite place -- the Supreme Court -- to get his immigration plans back on track. Yesterday a federal appeals court gave a big, fat nope to President Obama's executive actions that eased deportation threats for millions of undocumented immigrants. The actions remain blocked. The President can appeal to another panel of judges or just cut to the chase and take it right to the Supreme Court. Cause Obama needs another nail biter of a decision before he leaves office, right?MYANMARMyanmarking the occasion: All the votes haven't been counted yet, but it looks like Aung San Suu Kyi's opposition party is All the votes haven't been counted yet, but it looks like Aung San Suu Kyi's opposition party is going to win the country's historic elections. People are partying on the streets and even the leader of the military-backed ruling party is throwing in the towel. Despite her party's apparent victory, Suu Kyi, the popular Nobel Peace Prize winner, can't be president. That's because Myanmar's constitution -- drafted by the military -- doesn't let anyone with foreign family members anywhere near the presidency. Suu Kyi's late husband was British.JUST WATCHED Early Myanmar election results favor Suu Kyi's party Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Early Myanmar election results favor Suu Kyi's party 04:44SPORTSD-oh(pe)!: Will Russia be kicked out of the 2016 Olympics over doping allegations? That's one possible scenario coming out of yesterday's Will Russia be kicked out of the 2016 Olympics over doping allegations? That's one possible scenario coming out of yesterday's explosive report on doping from the World Anti-Doping Agency. Terms like state-sponsored doping -- that's a thing? -- are being tossed around about the Russians. The world governing body for track and field is giving Russia until Thursday to respond before holding a meeting on Friday to consider sanctions.JUST WATCHED IAAF president: 'I will do anything' to fix our sport Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH IAAF president: 'I will do anything' to fix our sport 02:03SHOOTINGBench target?: Ambushed in her driveway and left for dead. Who shot Judge Kocurek? A man being questioned is somehow connected to the Austin, Texas, judge but police aren't saying how. Ambushed in her driveway and left for dead. Who shot Judge Kocurek? A man being questioned is somehow connected to the Austin, Texas, judge but police aren't saying how. Julie Kocurek was shot in her driveway Friday night, attacked by someone who blocked her path, then came out of the darkness firing. As she recovers in a hospital, police are poring through her old cases -- about 25 years worth -- trying to find someone angry enough to want to hurt her. This isn't anything new: a lot of judges and prosecutors have been targeted the past couple of years.