Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here(CNN) Paris reels. Hollande retaliates. And Beirut feels forgotten. It's Monday, and here are the 5 things you need to know today:PARIS AFTERMATH: In sunnier times, the French called it joie de vivre -- a carefree enjoyment of life. These days, they have another expression: mal au coeur -- nausea and heartache. Sure, schools are open today, as is the stock market. But all the Christmas markets in town are shuttered. And cops are everywhere. Paris is battered and bruised after its deadliest attack since World War II. It'll pick itself up, dust itself off and soldier on. But it'll take time. The wounds are raw; the manhunt is still on -- 150 raids since Friday. Here's the latest• Attacks: Six sites: a concert hall, a soccer stadium and four restaurants• Victims: At least 129 dead, from France, Great Britain, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Chile and the U.S. Another 352 were wounded; 99 of whom are in very serious condition. ( Read about them here• Attackers: Seven killed; one still on the run. Of them, at least three attackers spent time in Syria. One slipped into Europe with the wave of refugees. ( What we know about themJUST WATCHED French reflect on loss, love, strength & tragedy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH French reflect on loss, love, strength & tragedy 01:45FIGHTING ISISJUST WATCHED French airstrikes target ISIS sites in Syria Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH French airstrikes target ISIS sites in Syria 01:28BEIRUT EXPLOSIONSThe unforgettable fire: Just like Paris, the Beirut attack was the deadliest in decades. Just like Paris, the killers in Beirut appeared to be connected to ISIS. But the : Just like Paris, the Beirut attack was the deadliest in decades. Just like Paris, the killers in Beirut appeared to be connected to ISIS. But the hugely uneven coverage of the two attacks has thrown the Western media's reporting into sharp relief. "When my people died, no country bothered to light up its landmarks in the colors of their flag," a Lebanese doctor wrote on his blog. "Their death was but an irrelevant fleck." It's unfortunate, because Lebanon has done more than most other nations in welcoming Syrian refugees.Mourners chant slogans last week at the funeral for a man killed in the ISIS bombings in Beirut.CAMPAIGN 2016Feel the Bern: In case you didn't watch the Democratic debate ( : In case you didn't watch the Democratic debate ( and so few of you did ), you missed Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton really going at it. Clinton claimed Sanders' vote gave the gun lobby more power. Sanders accused Clinton of being in Wall Street's pocket. But the sound bite that'll come back to bite was Clinton's own doing -- when she said she is "from the '60s ." Ditto for Martin O'Malley, who said he was "untested." Those attack ads will write themselves.JUST WATCHED The CBS News Democratic debate in 2 minutes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The CBS News Democratic debate in 2 minutes 02:03KOREA TENSIONSKim Jong U.N.: Ban Ki-moon is going to North Korea . This is a pretty big deal, because no U.N. chief's been there in 22 years! At a time when we're bombarded with so much bad news, anything he can do to mollify dictator Kim Jong Un is most welcome.U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moonBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.You've had a good run, sodaCar shopping just got a whole lot easier. Now, you can drop a coin in a vending machine and drive off.In praise of pieKnow who loves pies more than Cartman? This dude, whose ode to Patti LaBelle's sweet potato pies has them flying off the shelves.Cat burglarsTight security at the G20 Summit? Hah! These cats laugh at your tight security.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up laterFace/OnA volunteer firefighter, whose features burned off during a mobile home inferno, now lives with the face of a mechanic who died in a wreck. Doctors who'll share more details this morning call it the most extensive face transplant ever. We call it the best John Woo movie never made.Losing my religionThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints might want to rethink its new same-sex policy -- you know, the one that bans kids of gay parents from being baptized? About 1,500 Mormons are saying, "I can't even" and will quit todayAND FINALLYWhat's black and white and red all over?Embarrassed penguins. If you're trying to make a break from a zoo, remember Rule No. 1: Leave no evidence behind.