(CNN) Chicago keeps a lid on it ... a new suspect emerges in the Paris attacks ... and some McDonald's restaurants in Japan take gluttony to a whole new level.It's Wednesday, November 25, and here are the 5 things you need to know to get up to speed and out the door.Chicago protestsChicago officials were bracing for turmoil overnight, and for good reason: Newly released video showed police officer Jason Van Dyke unloading a barrage of bullets into 17-year-old Laquan McDonald -- even after the teen was already on the ground. But the protests were peaceful. And Van Dyke is now sitting in jail facing a first-degree murder charge.Paris attacksClose call: Turns out, the deadly terror attacks could have been even worse. The Paris prosecutor said Turns out, the deadly terror attacks could have been even worse. The Paris prosecutor said the suspected ringleader of the November 13 attacks and another man were planning a suicide attack on the Parisian financial district just a few days after terrorists killed 130 people across the city. But the plan was derailed -- the two men died in a police raid. Meanwhile, Belgian authorities are looking for a new suspect: Mohamed Abrini, who allegedly drove one of the terrorists the day of the attacks.JUST WATCHED Citizens of Paris afraid another attack could come Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Citizens of Paris afraid another attack could come 02:36Downed warplaneWar of words: Turkey says a Russian warplane violated its airspace (repeatedly) so it shot the plane down. Russia says its jet was over Syria, and how dare Turkey attack it? We don't even really know what happened to the two pilots. Russia said it believes one of the pilots died and the other is safe, but Turkmen rebels Turkey says a Russian warplane violated its airspace (repeatedly) so it shot the plane down. Russia says its jet was over Syria, and how dare Turkey attack it? We don't even really know what happened to the two pilots. Russia said it believes one of the pilots died and the other is safe, but Turkmen rebels claimed they shot both to death as they parachuted to the ground.JUST WATCHED Russia: Pilot has been rescued Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Russia: Pilot has been rescued 01:36Stedman BaileyStedman BaileyRacism studyGoing backward? About 49% of Americans said they believe racism is "a big problem" today. That's more than the 41% who thought so back in 1995, About 49% of Americans said they believe racism is "a big problem" today. That's more than the 41% who thought so back in 1995, according to a new CNN/Kaiser Family Foundation poll . Ouch. And even though millennials have a reputation for inclusiveness, young white Americans' friends are not very multicultural.