(CNN) Bomb theory shakes Russian plane crash probe. Four people injured in school stabbing. And NASA has more big Mars news.It's Thursday, and here are five things to know for your new day.PLANE CRASH: U.S. intelligence analysis suggests ISIS may have bombed Metrojet Flight 9268. The British have come to the same conclusion. Officials said signs pointing to ISIS are based on monitoring of internal messages of the terror group. ISIS has publicly taken credit for the attack, but there are doubters: officials in Egypt and Russia said, so far, there's no evidence to support ISIS' claims. As the investigation continues, Metrojet's entire Airbus A321 fleet has been grounded for "additional safety checks."Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt The militant group ISIS published this image of what it claims is the bomb that brought down Metrojet Flight 9268 on Saturday, October 31. The photograph shows a soft-drink can and two components that appear to be a detonator and a switch. Flight 9268 crashed in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula en route to the Russian city of St. Petersburg. All 224 people on board were killed. Hide Caption 1 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt The wreckage of Flight 9268 is seen in this image provided on Tuesday, November 3. Hide Caption 2 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt People visit a makeshift memorial at the airport in St. Petersburg on November 3. Hide Caption 3 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Trucks in St. Petersburg carry victims' bodies on Monday, November 2. Hide Caption 4 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Russian emergency personnel collect personal belongings of victims at the crash site in Hassana, Egypt, on November 2. Hide Caption 5 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Egyptian military personnel stand near the tail of the jet in Hassana on Sunday, November 1. Hide Caption 6 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt A piece of the engine sits on the ground at the crash site on November 1. Hide Caption 7 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Egyptian army soldiers guard the luggage and other belongings of passengers piled up at the site of the crash on November 1. Hide Caption 8 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Debris belonging to the Russian airliner is shown at the site of the crash on November 1. Hide Caption 9 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt More debris is shown on November 1. The crash site is in a remote area of a region plagued by a violent Islamic insurgency. Hide Caption 10 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Debris from the airliner is seen on November 1. Hide Caption 11 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Debris at the crash site on November 1. Hide Caption 12 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Candles, toys, flowers and portraits are left at Pulkovo International Airport outside St. Petersburg on November 1. Hide Caption 13 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt People place flowers and messages in front of the Russian Embassy in Cairo on November 1. Hide Caption 14 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Egyptian paramedics load the bodies of victims into a military plane at a military air base by the Suez Canal on Saturday, October 31. Hide Caption 15 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Egyptian Prime Minister Sherif Ismail, third from right, visits the site of the plane crash with military and government officials on October 31. Hide Caption 16 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Ismail, center, and other officials visit the site of the plane crash on October 31. Hide Caption 17 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt An item of clothing lies at the site where the plane crashed on October 31. Hide Caption 18 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt The tail of the jet sits in a field on October 31. Hide Caption 19 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Villagers watch an ambulance as it drives to unload bodies on October 31. Hide Caption 20 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt People light candles and leave flowers at the Russian Embassy in Kiev, Ukraine, on October 31. Hide Caption 21 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt A relative reacts to news at Pulkovo International Airport on October 31. Hide Caption 22 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Employees with the Russian Ministry for Emergency Situations wait in Moscow for their flight to Egypt on October 31. Hide Caption 23 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt Journalists and spectators wait for ambulances to arrive at the Zeinhom morgue in Cairo on October 31. Hide Caption 24 of 25 Photos: Russian plane crashes in Egypt An Egyptian soldier prays as emergency workers prepare to unload bodies of victims at a military airport north of Suez, Egypt, on October 31. Hide Caption 25 of 25STAGED SUICIDEHero no more: At his funeral two months ago, Fox Lake, Illinois, police At his funeral two months ago, Fox Lake, Illinois, police Lt. Joe Gliniewicz was hailed as a hero. Yesterday, his fellow police officers had another name for him: betrayer. Gliniewicz staged his own suicide to look like a homicide, investigators concluded, and it turns out that wasn't his first deception. He had been stealing and laundering money for years from a police department program that mentored young people who hoped to become law enforcement officers. Gliniewicz's death drew much attention initially because everyone thought it was another case of an officer killed in the line of duty.CAMPUS VIOLENCESchool stabbing: It wasn't a gun this time, but a knife that was used in It wasn't a gun this time, but a knife that was used in an attack at a California university yesterday. A male student walked into a classroom at University of California, Merced and stabbed four people as classes began. He was fatally shot by campus police. Authorities haven't released the man's identity or a motive for the attack.JUST WATCHED Police: UC Merced stabbing suspect killed by police Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police: UC Merced stabbing suspect killed by police 01:19IRANChant correction: The "Death to America" chant doesn't literally mean death to America. So says someone who should know: Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. After giving a speech to university students earlier this week where the chant was used, Khamenei decided, for whatever reason, to The "Death to America" chant doesn't literally mean death to America. So says someone who should know: Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. After giving a speech to university students earlier this week where the chant was used, Khamenei decided, for whatever reason, to offer some clarity . He said the chant means death to U.S. policies and arrogance, and "this logic is accepted by every nation when explained in clear terms." Oh snap, the Ayatollah just dropped the mic.Ayatollah: The chant isn't what you think it is.SPACEMartian message: So is today the day we find out Mars has been harboring little green men? Probably not, but NASA may reveal something pretty important today, when it makes another So is today the day we find out Mars has been harboring little green men? Probably not, but NASA may reveal something pretty important today, when it makes another big announcement on Mars. The space agency has offered few hints before this afternoon's news conference, and -- while some hope the news will be about life on Mars -- more than likely the announcement will offer new insight on the red planet's atmosphere. Not as sexy as aliens, but still pretty meaningful.