(CNN) A massive manhunt. Refugees bear the brunt. And the word of the year will leave you stumped. It's Tuesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .PARIS ATTACKS: We now have a pretty good idea who the suspected mastermind of the Paris plot is: Abdelhamid Abaaoud. He's only in his 20s, but he's already racked up quite a resume: He was tied to a plan to attack Belgian cops in January (foiled, thankfully). He's bragged about being able to come and go from Europe as he pleases. And he's believed to be the link between ISIS bosses and their lackeys in Europe. Worst of all, we have no idea where he is.In other developments:• Saying it's "at war," France drops more bombs on Raqqa, the ISIS stronghold in Syria. The manhunt's also still on, with 128 raids carried out overnight.• ISIS releases a new video, in which it tells the United States "we're coming for you." The U.S. says we're ready.• And a testy President Obama says despite it all, he won't be dragged into another unwinnable Mideast land war. Then he drops the mic.JUST WATCHED New ISIS video warns of attack on Washington Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New ISIS video warns of attack on Washington 02:39REFUGEE BACKLASHOne bad apple: This is some serious game of one-upmanship. Just because one Paris attack suspect slipped into Europe with Syrian refugees, 27 U.S. states have gone into overdrive and : This is some serious game of one-upmanship. Just because one Paris attack suspect slipped into Europe with Syrian refugees, 27 U.S. states have gone into overdrive and won't let any Syrian refugees in. (The feds have the final say in this matter, but states can make things difficult). Then, Sen. Rand Paul introduces legislation blocking visas for refugees from any country with a high terror risk. And Donald Trump does one better: He says he's open to the idea of shutting mosques in the U.S. #oofJUST WATCHED Which states will welcome Syrian refugees? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Which states will welcome Syrian refugees? 02:37JAMAR CLARKAn all-too-common tragedy: A disputed circumstance. A contentious response. This time, it's Minneapolis, where protesters shut down a highway last night, demanding that police release videos and the names of the officers involved in the : A disputed circumstance. A contentious response. This time, it's Minneapolis, where protesters shut down a highway last night, demanding that police release videos and the names of the officers involved in the death of Jamar Clark . Protesters say Clark was cuffed when he was shot Sunday. (He died Monday). Cops say he wasn't, but they won't say much beyond that. The city mayor has asked the feds to launch a civil rights investigation.JUST WATCHED Demonstrators shut down Minneapolis interstate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Demonstrators shut down Minneapolis interstate 01:26SAME-SEX ADOPTIONWell, that escalated quickly: Remember that Utah judge who last week ordered a little girl taken away from her same-sex foster parents and placed in a "more traditional" home? Well, : Remember that Utah judge who last week ordered a little girl taken away from her same-sex foster parents and placed in a "more traditional" home? Well, he's excused himself from the case . Gee, we wonder why? Could it be the the avalanche of thunderous criticism that rained down on him? This was the first serious challenge to same-sex adoption rights since the Supreme Court's same-sex marriage ruling last summer. Sadly, it won't be the last.JUST WATCHED Judge rescinds order in same-sex adoption Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Judge rescinds order in same-sex adoption 00:48METROJET CRASHBrought down by a bomb: For a time there, Moscow didn't want to accept that last month's Metrojet plane crash was a terrorist act. Today, it admitted what U.S. officials have been saying all along: A bomb is to blame. More specifically, : For a time there, Moscow didn't want to accept that last month's Metrojet plane crash was a terrorist act. Today, it admitted what U.S. officials have been saying all along: A bomb is to blame. More specifically, a homemade bomb packing 2.2 pounds of explosives. All 224 people died. The group claiming credit? One guessJUST WATCHED Russian media: Bomb brought down Metrojet flight Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Russian media: Bomb brought down Metrojet flight 02:38BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in."You lost. I will carry on as before"Antoine Leiris' powerful, defiant message to ISIS after he lost his wife in the Paris attacks. You should read it.Word of the yearThe Oxford Dictionaries Word of the Year is ... an emoji. That's not a cartoon yellow face; that's an English purist, shedding two giant tears.Up in smokeA survey finds that only 14.9% of adults in the U.S. still smoke . The rest clearly haven't seen the memo: It's BAD FOR YOU, dude!Nope. Nuh-uh. Not us.Porsche says actor Paul Walker's death was his own fault . He should have known the risks when he got into the passenger seat. You read that right: "passenger seat."Why did the chicken cross the road?To chill in the pool, of course.You're good enough, you're smart enough ...But if you still need validation, here's a clip of every inspiring coach speech from the movies. YEAH!WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up later.The show must go onSecurity will be tight when France plays England today. It's sure to be an emotional affair for Les Bleus -- its first match since the Paris attacks, some of which took place outside the stadium where it was playing Friday. Midfielder Lassana Diarra's cousin was among those killed, and striker Antoine Griezmann's sister narrowly survived. This might be the only time you'll see rabid English soccer fans rooting for the French. ... Nah!The big revealActor Charlie Sheen's going to be on the "Today" show this morning for a "revealing personal announcement." To wit: He's HIV positive . Then, the Internet will explode$100 billionHow much the U.S. spends a year fighting terrorism. Its military expenses top that of the next seven countries ... combinedAnd finally ...That time when you met your mini-me... and all you wanted to do was sit and chat a while. I said, SIT!