Anderson, California (CNN) As police face scrutiny and controversy nationwide over the use of force, a small department in northern California is resurrecting a weapon to more safely subdue suspects that once was popularized in Bruce Lee movies: nunchucks.No, Anderson police officers won't be, like Lee, swinging the nunchucks as a striking weapon, though that's a possibility.Rather, the officers will most often use the nunchucks as a clamping device to pinch the leg or wrist of a defiant suspect. The intense pain will prompt the suspect to surrender to an arresting officer.The weapon, two sticks with a short tether, give police a nonlethal alternative in confrontations that require force. While civilian nunchucks are illegal in California, police can opt to use them."A lot of people have this perception that it's this ninja tool that is equivalent to a deadly weapon which is used to strike and fight and create an aggressive tone, so that's why some (police departments) stay away from it," Anderson Police Chief Michael Johnson said.But nunchucks, (sometimes referred to as nunchaku), were once used by as many as 200 police departments nationwide in the 1980s and 1990s to "more compassionately" and "more safely" control suspects, limiting injuries to both officers and those apprehended, according to Johnson and experts."Its primary use is not a striking tool. It's more a grappling tool. You'll see it's used like chop sticks: It's used to apply pain," Johnson said. "Pain compliance is basically what it is."Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Demonstrators chant during a rally in downtown Manhattan on December 13. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Police arrest a "Black Lives Matter" protester on Saturday, December 20, in Bloomington, Minnesota. Invoking the familiar names of blacks who died at the hands of police, including Eric Garner, Michael Brown and Tamir Rice, thousands have taken part in protests across the country calling for a more aggressive federal response to recent slayings by police. Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Thousands of protesters fill the Mall of America in Bloomington on Saturday, December 20. Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Police line up to move the protesters from out of the mall on December 20 in Bloomington. Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Mikela Mosley speaks out in front of a line of police during a demonstration on Saturday, December 13, in Oakland, California. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests A protester is arrested at a demonstration on December 13 in Oakland. Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Demonstrators march over the inbound lane of the Brooklyn Bridge in New York on December 13. Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Protesters stage a "die-in" during a march in Chicago on December 13. Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Demonstrators face off with police during a march in Chicago on December 13. Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Protesters march through the streets of Oakland on December 13. Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Protesters gather at the Alameda County Courthouse in Oakland on December 13. Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests A demonstrator marches in New York on December 13 during the "Justice for All" rally. Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests The protest moves down Sixth Avenue in New York on December 13. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests A woman marches down 14th Street in New York on December 13. Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests From left, Samaira Rice, the mother of Tamir Rice; Lesley McSpadden, the mother of Michael Brown Jr.; the Rev. Al Sharpton and Michael Brown Sr., the father of Michael Brown Jr, raise their hands in the air during the "Justice For All" march and rally through Washington on December 13. Hide Caption 15 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Protesters fill the street as they gather for a march on December 13 in Washington. Hide Caption 16 of 16By 2000, police nunchucks began to lose their limited favor with the introduction of the Taser, a type of stun gun that uses tethered projectiles and an electrical jolt to send an unruly suspect to the ground.Also, some police agencies dropped nunchucks after significant injuries such as broken wrists were reported, said Greg Mayer, a retired Los Angeles police captain who's now an expert on use of force."Any use of force might cause injury to suspects or officers," Mayer said. "The challenge is to find and adopt equipment and tactics that get the job done, but cause the fewest and least severe injuries to suspects and officers."But national controversies over deadly force led Johnson to consider nunchucks as an alternative.JUST WATCHED When can police shoot? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH When can police shoot? 01:55The pair of sticks are connected by about 3 inches of nylon cord."With the strained relationship between society and law enforcement currently that we are seeing on a day to day basis and looking at the potential litigious matters that could be ahead for us having to use force, I thought what's a better way to give another option to the officers to maybe subdue a suspect, which limits injuries to both. The nunchaku is that tool," Johnson said.At first, some officers in the 20-member Anderson police force looked askance at the weapon that conjures up an image of a bare-chested Bruce Lee expertly flailing the nunchucks with fearsome speed."I was skeptical," Sgt. Casey Day said. "I had no experience with the nunchucks myself. I quickly started researching the tool and agreed to attend the instructor training."JUST WATCHED Dramatic arrest caught on camera Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dramatic arrest caught on camera 02:10Now a nunchucks instructor for his department, Day calls the weapon a "great" tool because it's versatile as a control or impact weapon.Unlike a police baton, the nunchucks allow officers to manually vary the amount of force applied and use only what's necessary, Day said."In the end, I was sold. To me, it seems like they have a very real world place for being effective with police officers today dealing with passive and actively resisting suspects," Day said.About 100 police departments around the country use nunchucks, and in 95% of their usage, they're deployed in control and restraint situations, Orcutt said. The remaining occasions are for striking, or impact, situations, he said.JUST WATCHED Police reactions in a split second Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police reactions in a split second 03:43"The nunchaku is a martial arts device or weapon that Bruce Lee demonstrated in many movies. That's not what I'm teaching here. The impact techniques are extremely simple, as in any baton user would be able to master those techniques, and they don't take long to teach," Orcutt said."The remainder of the training is for the control applications, which the martial arts experts don't teach because they're not putting people in handcuffs," said Orcutt, who has certified more than 800 nunchucks police instructors since 1984. Orcutt also holds a first-degree black belt in jukado and was inducted in the World Martial Arts Hall of Fame in 1997.Orcutt believes the use of nunchucks could have prevented the death of Eric Garner, the unarmed African-American man who died last summer after a New York police officer put him in a choke hold.Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Los Angeles Lakers' Kobe Bryant, center, warms up before an NBA basketball game against the Sacramento Kings on Tuesday, December 9, in Los Angeles. The team wore "I Can't Breathe" shirts during warm-ups in support of the family of Eric Garner. Since a grand jury declined to indict a New York police officer in the death of Garner, demonstrators across the country have taken to the streets to express their outrage. Garner, a 43-year-old asthmatic, died in July after he was put in a chokehold by the officer, Daniel Pantaleo. Hide Caption 1 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Protesters gather in front of the Barclays Center during an NBA game in New York on Monday, December 8. Hide Caption 2 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Police clash with demonstrators at the entrance of a Target near the Barclays Center on December 8. Hide Caption 3 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Seven-year-old Elijah Owens, left, stands by people participating in a "die-in" demonstration outside the Philadelphia Eagles' stadium in Philadelphia on Sunday, December 7. Hide Caption 4 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision People protest in the streets of Chicago on December 7. Hide Caption 5 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Demonstrators retreat in Berkeley, California, after police deploy tear gas during a protest that turned violent before dawn on December 7. Hide Caption 6 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision A police officer in Berkeley clashes with a protester on December 7. Hide Caption 7 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision A police officer raises a shotgun toward the crowd in Berkeley on Saturday, December 6. Hide Caption 8 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision People in Los Angeles lie down during a "die-in" on Hollywood Boulevard on December 6. Hide Caption 9 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Police stand guard as protesters participate in a "die-in" December 6 at Grand Central Station in New York. Hide Caption 10 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Protesters shut down all eastbound and westbound lanes on Interstate 195, which links Miami Beach to the mainland, on Friday, December 5. Hide Caption 11 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Demonstrators march through the Loop in Chicago on December 5. Hide Caption 12 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Protesters block an intersection in downtown Washington on December 5. Hide Caption 13 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Demonstrators march through a Macy's in Manhattan before staging a "die-in" at the iconic department store on December 5. Hide Caption 14 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Police make an arrest as protesters march through Manhattan early on December 5. Hide Caption 15 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Police officers form a line with demonstrations under way in Oakland, California, on Thursday, December 4. Hide Caption 16 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision A demonstrator gets arrested during a protest in New York on December 4. Hide Caption 17 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Police detain a protester in New York on December 4. Hide Caption 18 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Demonstrators gather in New York's Foley Square on December 4. Hide Caption 19 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Police officers in New York staff a barricade at a Brooklyn Bridge exit ramp on December 4. Hide Caption 20 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Demonstrators march across the Brooklyn Bridge on December 4. Hide Caption 21 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision "Black Lives Matter" is written across the cheek of Samaria Muhammad as she chants with fellow protesters in Atlanta on December 4. Hide Caption 22 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Demonstrators block the entrance to the Lincoln Tunnel in New York on Wednesday, December 3. Hide Caption 23 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Protesters lie down in Grand Central Station on December 3. Hide Caption 24 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision A demonstrator cries at a protest in Philadelphia on December 3. Hide Caption 25 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Demonstrators block traffic on Interstate 395 in Washington on December 3. Hide Caption 26 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision A woman speaks during a demonstration in Oakland on December 3. Hide Caption 27 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Police officers stand guard in New York's Times Square on December 3. Hide Caption 28 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Protesters rally near Rockefeller Center during a ceremony to light the Rockefeller Center Christmas Tree in New York. Hide Caption 29 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Protesters face off with police in Oakland. Hide Caption 30 of 31 Photos: Protests after Eric Garner grand jury decision Demonstrators lie in the streets of St. Louis on December 3. Hide Caption 31 of 31Perhaps an officer could have more safely brought down Garner by squeezing the nunchucks' two sticks over Garner's ankle, Orcutt said."It would have ended the confrontation. Guaranteed," Orcutt said.Police use of nunchucks survived a federal court challenge in the early 1990s in San Diego where police used the weapon at a public demonstration against abortion, Orcutt said. A federal appeals court upheld the police use of the weapon as a legitimate force."I think what you're seeing now is that there is a new generation in the law enforcement business taking a look at it," Orcutt said.