(CNN) Closure may be near for the loved ones of the people lost on the cargo ship El Faro during Hurricane Joaquin. The ultimate answer to the whereabouts of the more than 30 people presumed dead could lie about three miles under the sea.A U.S. Navy search team located the wreckage of a cargo ship believed to be the El Faro in about 15,000 feet of water, the National Transportation Safety Board said late Saturday.The Lockheed HC-130 that took the CNN crew up is a modified version of the C-130 Hercules transport plane. This model is suited specifically for search-and-rescue missions, whether they be in combat or otherwise. Though Monday's search kept the plane in the air for 10 hours, it landed with more than 15,000 pounds of fuel. A Coast Guard pilot told CNN that in the event of an emergency or change of plans, the plane could have remained in the air several more hours.The Lockheed HC-130 that took the CNN crew up is a modified version of the C-130 Hercules transport plane. This model is suited specifically for search-and-rescue missions, whether they be in combat or otherwise. Though Monday's search kept the plane in the air for 10 hours, it landed with more than 15,000 pounds of fuel. A Coast Guard pilot told CNN that in the event of an emergency or change of plans, the plane could have remained in the air several more hours.When the HC-130 first took off, the cockpit was dark, the instruments on the control panel offering the only light. Here, the first rays of sun gleam into the cockpit as Lt. Janelle Setta, a copilot, left, and Fielder, the engineer, guide the plane to the search area.When the HC-130 first took off, the cockpit was dark, the instruments on the control panel offering the only light. Here, the first rays of sun gleam into the cockpit as Lt. Janelle Setta, a copilot, left, and Fielder, the engineer, guide the plane to the search area.Majeska, one of the copilots, snacks on a cinnamon bun while flying the plane and keeping a close watch on the water below. The task of straining your eyes to see debris floating on the water up to a mile in the distance, doubling back and taking a closer look, for a period of about 10 hours is a grueling one, so everyone on board brought plenty of food -- pizza, breakfast burritos, salads, yogurt, bologna sandwiches, sushi -- to keep their energy up for the long mission.Majeska, one of the copilots, snacks on a cinnamon bun while flying the plane and keeping a close watch on the water below. The task of straining your eyes to see debris floating on the water up to a mile in the distance, doubling back and taking a closer look, for a period of about 10 hours is a grueling one, so everyone on board brought plenty of food -- pizza, breakfast burritos, salads, yogurt, bologna sandwiches, sushi -- to keep their energy up for the long mission.The plane neared the search grid just after the sun rose. The crew timed its departure from Clearwater, just before 5 a.m. ET, to maximize the sunlight. But even with optimum conditions and a wealth of debris on the water, it was difficult to see each piece -- and more importantly, determine if anyone might be clinging to it -- so the plane often made multiple passes over anything the crew deemed possibly recoverable.The plane neared the search grid just after the sun rose. The crew timed its departure from Clearwater, just before 5 a.m. ET, to maximize the sunlight. But even with optimum conditions and a wealth of debris on the water, it was difficult to see each piece -- and more importantly, determine if anyone might be clinging to it -- so the plane often made multiple passes over anything the crew deemed possibly recoverable.The plane passes over Eleuthera, another Bahamian island, located about 50 miles east of Nassau. The crew had been mildly concerned about weather before takeoff, but they called the conditions for Monday's search prime, explaining that with few clouds and no whitecaps on the smooth ocean surface, it was much easier to spot and identify debris.The plane passes over Eleuthera, another Bahamian island, located about 50 miles east of Nassau. The crew had been mildly concerned about weather before takeoff, but they called the conditions for Monday's search prime, explaining that with few clouds and no whitecaps on the smooth ocean surface, it was much easier to spot and identify debris.This image demonstrates the difficulty of spotting survivors or recoverable items, even from the frighteningly low altitude of 500 feet.This image demonstrates the difficulty of spotting survivors or recoverable items, even from the frighteningly low altitude of 500 feet.The HC-130 passes back over San Salvador Island, Bahamas, on its way back to the base in Clearwater, Florida. The starting point for the more than 1,000-square-mile search Monday was just northeast of San Salvador Island, in the Atlantic Ocean. The Coast Guard announced while this plane was airborne that the search for the actual container ship was over and the focus was now solely on survivors.The HC-130 passes back over San Salvador Island, Bahamas, on its way back to the base in Clearwater, Florida. The starting point for the more than 1,000-square-mile search Monday was just northeast of San Salvador Island, in the Atlantic Ocean. The Coast Guard announced while this plane was airborne that the search for the actual container ship was over and the focus was now solely on survivors.LaBelle, the navigator, points out the plane's planned grid en route to the search area. The land mass to the left is San Salvador Island, Bahamas, and the grid requires that pilots fly in a 44-mile lane in one direction, make a U-turn almost two miles wide, and then fly back 44 miles parallel to the previous lane. The total flight was about 700 miles, roughly the distance from Minneapolis to Denver.LaBelle, the navigator, points out the plane's planned grid en route to the search area. The land mass to the left is San Salvador Island, Bahamas, and the grid requires that pilots fly in a 44-mile lane in one direction, make a U-turn almost two miles wide, and then fly back 44 miles parallel to the previous lane. The total flight was about 700 miles, roughly the distance from Minneapolis to Denver.The plane makes a sharp bank to "orbit," or fly back over, a piece of debris that the crew wants to check. On the second pass, the cockpit crew gives it another look, as will the crewmember operating the onboard camera. Here, Petty Officers 3rd Class Chris LaBelle, left, and Mark Strock sit on the edge of the cargo door in hopes of getting a better perspective on the debris.The plane makes a sharp bank to "orbit," or fly back over, a piece of debris that the crew wants to check. On the second pass, the cockpit crew gives it another look, as will the crewmember operating the onboard camera. Here, Petty Officers 3rd Class Chris LaBelle, left, and Mark Strock sit on the edge of the cargo door in hopes of getting a better perspective on the debris.From left, Petty Officer 1st Class Jim Fielder, the plane's engineer, Lt. Heather Majeska, a copilot, and Petty Officer 3rd Class Anders Forsberg, who operated the plane's communications, search for debris. Despite the wealth of technology involved in the search for El Faro survivors, eyes are still one of the most important tools in the search, and everyone is expected to keep a look out.From left, Petty Officer 1st Class Jim Fielder, the plane's engineer, Lt. Heather Majeska, a copilot, and Petty Officer 3rd Class Anders Forsberg, who operated the plane's communications, search for debris. Despite the wealth of technology involved in the search for El Faro survivors, eyes are still one of the most important tools in the search, and everyone is expected to keep a look out.As early as Sunday, the team on board the USNS Apache will try to confirm the wreck's identity when it sends down a remote operated sub, the CURV 21. It is outfitted with a video camera that would record the wreckage. The vehicle would also search for the ship's data recorder.Lashawn Rivera was a crew member aboard the El Faro. His relative Barry Young told CNN affiliate WJXT he was glad that the ship's wreck may have been found. "We're just hoping for closure totally on this issue," he said. The family wants Rivera's remains brought home.But complete findings could take days. CURV 21's mission is expected to last 15 days under optimal conditions.Presumed deadThe El Faro went missing near the Bahamas on October 1 with 33 people on board. The owners of El Faro said the captain had a "sound plan" to avoid Hurricane Joaquin , but that the ship's main propulsion failed, stranding the crew in the path of the Category 4 storm.The ship's 28 American crew members and five Polish nationals are all presumed dead. One body was found during a Coast Guard search of the sea surface in the days after the ship disappeared.For nearly a week, helicopters, planes, as well as Coast Guard and private ships scoured 1,000 square miles of surface for signs of the ship.Photos: Hurricane Joaquin Photos: Hurricane Joaquin Wind and rain from Hurricane Joaquin lashes Nassau, Bahamas, on Friday, October 2. The storm stalled over the Bahamas and then began moving northward later in the day, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Hurricane Joaquin Darren Gallo walks home in Long Beach, New York, after two hours of surfing on October 2. The storm might stay in the Atlantic Ocean, away from the U.S. East Coast, but there is still a concern about heavy rain and potential flooding. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Hurricane Joaquin Volunteers and public works employees load sandbags into people's cars on Friday, October 2, as residents of Alexandria, Virginia, prepare for potential flooding. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Hurricane Joaquin A man in Nassau puts up plywood shutters to cover store windows on Thursday, October 1. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Hurricane Joaquin A supermarket worker in Newport News, Virginia, readies cases of bottled water on October 1. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Hurricane Joaquin A boy walks on a beach in Belmar, New Jersey, on October 1, as front loaders build sand dunes in preparation for Hurricane Joaquin. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Hurricane Joaquin A boat is removed from the water in Newport News on October 1. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Hurricane Joaquin A catamaran sails off the coast of Virginia as the USS Harry S. Truman returns to port on October 1. Hide Caption 8 of 8Deep sea searchThe deep sea search for the El Faro's wreckage and its towed locator pinger, or "black box" began over a week ago. After three days with no sign from a pinger, searchers on Wednesday let a sonar searcher into the water to get impressions of the ocean bottom.Again, no sign. Three days of searches passed. Then on Saturday, a breakthrough -- a large object 2.8 miles down. And it was about under the spot where the El Faro was last noted."The target identified by Orion (side-scan radar) is consistent with a 790-foot cargo ship, which from sonar images appears to be in an upright position and in one piece," the NTSB said.The NTSB said the USNS Apache crew located the wreckage at 1:36 pm ET during the fifth of 13 planned search line surveys.Recorded call with captainThe 40-year-old U.S.-flagged El Faro never made it to Puerto Rico after it left Jacksonville, Florida.In a recorded call, the ship's captain reported a marine emergency early October 1. Capt. Michael Davidson said the hull had been breached, a scuttle blown open, and water had entered the El Faro.Engineers were unable to get its main propulsion going again.