Editor’s Note: Philip Meissner is a New York based attorney. He also founded : Philip Meissner is a New York based attorney. He also founded JewishSafeHavenFund.org , a group dedicated to protecting Jews from terrorist attack in America and abroad.By Philip Meissner, Special to CNN(CNN) -- Buenos Aires, Argentina. Mumbai, India. Bangkok, Thailand. And now Toulouse, France. While we have seen a recent wave of anti-Semitic attacks here in the United States -- including the firebombing of a synagogue in Rutherford, New Jersey and cars set on fire in an Orthodox neighborhood of Midwood, Brooklyn -- a series of organized terrorist attacks is also being carried out at an ever-accelerating pace against Jews overseas. One cannot help but wonder if American Jews are safe from the growing threat, either at home, or abroad.As a young boy of nine-years old, my father miraculously escaped Nazi Germany on Kristallnacht, November 9, 1938. His parents had the foresight to know that they could no longer stay in Berlin. They first went to Poland to say good-bye to their parents, my great-grandparents, who were tragically convinced that the Nazis in Germany would pass by as just another political party, and that they would be safe in Poland. That was the last time they saw one another. My grandparents left everything behind, and undertook the dangerous journey of traveling by train to Marseille, France. They thereafter boarded the SS Normandie for its last voyage to New York before the war, which ultimately saved their lives.Decades later, after establishing their life in the United States, our link to the Holocaust came full circle as my eldest sister married into the Bielski family, whose heroism was recounted recently in the film "Defiance." The Bielskis did not have either the good fortune, or the inclination to leave Europe during the war. Following the murder of their parents, the Bielski brothers- Tuvia, Zus and Asael- realized that they would have to save themselves. They formed the Bielski brigade and provided safe haven to the Jews who joined them. For almost three years, they fought against the Germans and provided food and shelter to 1,250 Jewish men, women and children in the forests of Western Belorussia. This was the largest armed rescue of Jews by Jews during the war.Read More