Story highlights A neighbor says he found the girl and her dead parents and siblingsAnother neighbor had invited them in his home, thinking it would be saferThe toddler's family takes her off life support, a coroner saysShe was surrounded by about 20 family members, he addsA southern Indiana toddler, found in a field after both her parents and two siblings were killed by devastating tornadoes, died Sunday after being taken off life support, a coroner said.The girl, Angel Babcock, had been in critical condition since late Friday at Kosair Children's Hospital in Louisville, Kentucky, about 28 miles southeast of where she was discovered.On Sunday afternoon, her family took her off life support and she died immediately at 4:10 p.m., Jefferson County, Kentucky, Deputy Coroner Bob Jones told CNN. At least 20 people were with her at the time, including two sets of grandparents.When authorities came across the toddler with blond hair and blue eyes in New Pekin, Indiana, they said they initially did not who she was or how she ended up there.JUST WATCHED Tornado victim died protecting wife Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tornado victim died protecting wife 02:16JUST WATCHED Tornado turns love's milestone into pain Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tornado turns love's milestone into pain 01:36A neighbor, Andy Lanham, told CNN on Sunday that the girl, her two siblings and her parents had been invited by another neighbor to stay in his larger mobile home, in hopes that would help improve their chances of riding out the storm safely.After the twister passed, Lanham went out into the muddy field where many mobile homes had been located."The man and woman (were) laying right here behind the saw mill and all three of the kids (were) found in this area," he said.The twister had picked up the entire family and dropped them about 100 yards away from their home. Only Angel -- who great aunt Carol Brough said later was 14 months old -- had survived.Lanham said the neighbor who had tried to help the family, Jason Miller, "was just walking around here. He was out of his mind."Angel was eventually flown to Kosair Children's Hospital in Louisville, according to Brian Rublein, a spokesman for Kosair.The Louisville-based Courier-Journal newspaper, which covers parts of southern Indiana, spoke to the girl's grandfather, Jack Brough, before she was taken off life support. He said she had suffered "a lot of injuries to her head," and that doctors told him "the next 24-48 hours are very critical.""I'm just asking everyone to pray for my granddaughter and for my family," he told the Courier-Journal.Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Janet Clark stands in front of her home on Sunday, March 4, where she rode out Friday's EF4 tornado in Henryville, Indiana. Hide Caption 1 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Debris from the violent tornado remains scattered around a Henryville home on Sunday. Hide Caption 2 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Troy Lewis cuts up a tree on Sunday that fell when a tornado passed through Marysville, Indiana. Hide Caption 3 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Harrisburg, Illinois, residents face the daunting challenge of cleaning up after the prowerful storms. Hide Caption 4 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Leah Boylan looks at the damage to her sister's home on Saturday, March 3, after it was destroyed by a tornado in Henryville, Indiana. Dozens of people were killed as severe weather and tornadoes ripped through the South and Midwest on Friday, March 2. Hide Caption 5 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Melody Zollman, left, gets a hug from her sister Michelle Browning as they stand among the remains of Zollman's home in Henryville after it was destroyed by a tornado on Friday. Hide Caption 6 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Zollman hugs her cat Thumbelina after it was pulled from the debris of her home. Hide Caption 7 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Sarah Kutz helps her sister rescue possessions from her home, which was destroyed in the tornado that hit Henryville. Hide Caption 8 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A school bus is lodged in a home in Henryville where it came to rest after being tossed by Friday's tornado. Hide Caption 9 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Cupcakes, baked for a 12-year-old's birthday party, remain on the counter where they were left to cool moments before Friday's tornado destroyed the home. Hide Caption 10 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – iReporter Kevin Welz captured this image of the Henryville tornado as it touched down on Friday night. Hide Caption 11 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Steve Smith and J. J. Smith survey the damage to their home following the tornado that struck Henryville. Hide Caption 12 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A family portrait sits among the debris of a Henryville home. Hide Caption 13 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A car and school bus are overturned in the parking lot of a Henryville school. Hide Caption 14 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – An overnight storm shredded the roof of a business in Paulding County, Georgia. Hide Caption 15 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – High winds during an overnight storm system tore apart a Paulding County home. Hide Caption 16 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A tornado touched down in Madison County, Alabama, on Friday, causing widespread damage. The powerful storm system is moving across the United States, causing tornadoes from Alabama to Indiana and threatening more destruction. In Indiana, at least five deaths were reported. Hide Caption 17 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A tornado in Ooltewah,Tennessee, left this home destroyed on Friday. Hide Caption 18 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Debris is strewn as far as the eye can see in Ooltewah. Hide Caption 19 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Meridianville, Alabama, was hit hard by Friday's storm system. Hide Caption 20 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Tornado-force winds sheered this telephone pole in Madison County, Alabama. Hide Caption 21 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Behind this once welcoming exterior in Madison County lies the ruins of a home struck by Friday's storm. Hide Caption 22 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – iRepoterer Blair Scott took this photo of damaged cars at Buckhorn High School in Hunstville, Alabama, after the school was hit by one of Friday's tornadoes. Hide Caption 23 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Keith Huke, right, remained in the bed to his left, escaping with no injuries from the tornado that tore apart his home in Harrisburg, Illinois. Hide Caption 24 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Utility workers try to restore electricity to a tornado-damaged section of Harrisburg on Friday. Hide Caption 25 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Dale Barnfield, left, and his niece Linda Mayberry wait for an insurance adjuster outside Barnfield's tornado-damaged home in Harrisburg. Hide Caption 26 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Harrisburg residents continue to clean up after Thursday's tornado. Hide Caption 27 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A Harrisburg neighborhood lies in ruins Thursday after a tornado tore through the town. A monster storm system killed six people in Harrisburg and left at least seven others dead in two other states. Hide Caption 28 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A truck appears twisted like a toy Thursday in the storm's aftermath in Harrisburg. A tornado with winds up to 180 mph thrashed the southern Illinois town early Wednesday. Hide Caption 29 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Angela Davis, an iReporter from Marion, Illinois, went to Harrisburg after the storm because she said she has friends and family there. "It was kind of surreal," Davis wrote of the destruction. "We saw silos picked up/thrown around, gas pipes from gas stations, a truck wrapped around the tree." Hide Caption 30 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Up to 300 houses were damaged or destroyed in Harrisburg, authorities said. The tornado had a preliminary rating of EF4, the second most powerful on the rating scale, the National Weather Service said. Hide Caption 31 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Steve McDonald inspects what's left of his mother-in-law's house in Harrisburg. His in-law, Mary Osman, was among four women and two men killed in the hard-hit town. Hide Caption 32 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Josh Summers searches for his possessions after the tornado ripped through his Harrisburg neighborhood. The twister appeared to have been on the ground for several miles, a city official said. Hide Caption 33 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – The powerful storm leaves cars tossed about among collapsed houses and other debris Wednesday in Harrisburg. Hide Caption 34 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Downed trees crush a truck Wednesday after a tornado hit in Harveyville, Kansas. A state of emergency was declared in the town about 20 miles southwest of Topeka. Hide Caption 35 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Douglas Osman sifts through the wreckage of his grandmother's house Wednesday in Harrisburg. His grandmother, Mary Osman, was one of six people killed in the Illinois town. Hide Caption 36 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Carolyn Osman surveys the wreckage of the tornado that took her mother-in-law's life in Harrisburg, where some 100 people were also injured. Hide Caption 37 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Levi Fogle helps girlfriend Sarah Pearce leave a damaged house in Harrisburg. Fogle, Pearce and her three daughters went unharmed in the storm. Hide Caption 38 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – John Bonenberger checks out damage to a Harrisburg strip mall where his business was located. Hide Caption 39 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A house in Harrisburg lies in ruins in the tornado's aftermath. Hide Caption 40 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – An old family photo survives the destruction in Buffalo, Missouri. Hide Caption 41 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – The storm leaves a car battered in the music resort town of Branson, Missouri, in a photo from iReporter Danny Gassaway. Hide Caption 42 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Aerial photos taken by Air Evac Lifeteam in Stoddard County, Missouri, show the scope of storm damage. Hide Caption 43 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A tornado razed this house and above-ground swimming pool in Stoddard County. Hide Caption 44 of 44Angel's death Sunday raises the number of those killed due to the recent severe weather to 13 in Indiana, and at least 39 people across the country.Reflecting on the family killed in New Pekin, Lanham said that he was at a loss for words."They (were) good people," he said. "Nobody deserves it. I hate it."