(CNN) If you haven't gotten it out yet, it's time to find your "cheesy" holiday sweater. It could earn you some free queso . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. California wildfiresToday will be another hellish day in the fight against the Southern California wildfires. The winds will be strong , with gusts up to 64 mph. It's still dry, with humidity at less than 10%. Those conditions, paired with dangerously dry vegetation, mean Los Angeles' fire danger number will be 296, a record high (165 or higher is considered extreme).Meantime, California utility company Edison International has lost $3.3 billion in market value since the blazes began Monday. Wall Street fears Edison could be liable for damages if its power lines are found to have started the fires.2. Russia investigationDonald Trump Jr. would not tell House investigators Wednesday what he and his father discussed after reports surfaced about a June 2016 meeting he had in Trump Tower with Russians, citing attorney-client privilege. President Trump and his son had a conversation this summer after Trump Jr. produced emails about his involvement in the meeting, according to Rep. Adam Schiff, who attended the Wednesday session. At the classified hearing, Trump Jr. acknowledged speaking with senior White House aide Hope Hicks to help craft a response to the initial reports. But Trump Jr. did not provide details about communications with his father and invoked attorney-client privilege because of the presence of attorneys.JUST WATCHED Speier: Donald Trump Jr. has a case of amnesia Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Speier: Donald Trump Jr. has a case of amnesia 01:343. JerusalemJUST WATCHED Erakat: Jerusalem decision crowns extremist Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Erakat: Jerusalem decision crowns extremist 01:234. Same-sex marriageSame-sex marriage is now legal in Australia. The country's parliament approved it after a non-binding vote by Australians showed that 61% were in favor. Australia is now the 24th country to allow same-sex couples to marry. The first same-sex weddings there won't happen until January, at the soonest, though, because all couples in Australia must give a full month's notice before they can get married.Public gallery erupts into chorus of 'I Am Australian' after Parliament votes to legalise same-sex marriage #auspol #SSM pic.twitter.com/uuoePCJamD — ABC News (@abcnews) December 7, 20175. EntitlementsThe GOP tackled the tax code in 2017. Next year, the party sets its eyes on cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and welfare programs. House Speaker Paul Ryan said these entitlements need to be changed in order to "tackle the debt and the deficit." That comment sparked harsh criticism from the left, including from Sen. Bernie Sanders, who said Ryan "admitted" that Republicans plan to pay for their proposed tax bill -- which would increase the deficit by about a $1 trillion dollars -- with cuts to social programs that help "vulnerable Americans."JUST WATCHED Ryan says GOP will tackle entitlement reform Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ryan says GOP will tackle entitlement reform 00:37NUMBER OF THE DAY32The number of Democratic senators who have called on Sen. Al Franken to resign . Franken, facing multiple sex harassment claims and a Senate Ethics Committe investigation, is set to make an announcement today.JUST WATCHED 30+ Dems call on Franken to step down Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 30+ Dems call on Franken to step down 03:02BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.#MeToo momentPeople were thrilled to see "The Silence Breakers" named Time's Person of the Year. But social media wondered, what was Taylor Swift doing on the coverJUST WATCHED Who are 'The Silence Breakers'? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who are 'The Silence Breakers'? 01:24The great white hopesAre you a person of color tired of fighting about racism on social media? Relax. Here are some white folks who have your back.A little something extraThe nativity scene at Saint Susanna Parish near Boston is unlike any kind you've ever seen because it makes a can't-miss statement about gun violence.Roll that videoA masked man in an oyster costume singing a rap ballad. Sounds like 2017, alright. Here's what else we liked on YouTube this year.QUOTE OF THE DAY"It goes against everything we stand for as a people in this country."Ralph Fernandez, attorney for the parents of the suspected Tampa, Florida serial killer, says parents shouldn't be forced to testify against their children. Suspect Howell Donaldson III's parents aren't cooperating with police and may be charged with contempt when they appear today before a judge.JUST WATCHED Tampa killings suspect arrested Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tampa killings suspect arrested 01:21AND FINALLY ...Coming soon