(CNN) Need that first cup of coffee? Starbucks just opened up its largest store in the world . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Travel banThe third time just may be the charm for President Trump's travel ban. The Supreme Court will a llow this latest version of the ban to take effect while the legal fight over it winds through the lower courts. This ban places restrictions on foreign nationals from Chad, Iran, Libya, North Korea, Syria, Venezuela, Somalia and Yemen . It's the first time justices have allowed any edition of the ban to go forward in its entirety, and some observers see this as a sign the Supremes are more likely in the future to rule in its favor.2. Roy MooreWhat a difference a month makes. For much of November, it seemed like Roy Moore's Senate campaign in Alabama was a sinking ship. Now it's December, and it's full steam ahead after President Trump endorsed him , Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell softened his tone and the RNC is giving Moore money againSo, what made the GOP look beyond the sexual harassment and assault claims against Moore? Old-fashioned politics. Polls show a very tight race, and the GOP really can't afford to lose a single Senate seat if it wants to move its agenda forward. There is still at least one influential dissenting voice on the right, though. Mitt Romney tweeted that Moore's election would be a "stain on the GOP" and no victory was worth "losing our honor."JUST WATCHED How Republicans began to accept Roy Moore Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Republicans began to accept Roy Moore 01:433. Paul Manafort4. YemenJUST WATCHED The life and legacy of Ali Abdullah Saleh Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The life and legacy of Ali Abdullah Saleh 01:085. Net neutralityThe FCC is due to vote next week on a repeal of net neutrality rules, but Democrats want it delayed. They say there's evidence that more than a million comments submitted to the FCC on the issue were fake. And New York's attorney general says stolen IDs of Americans were used to make the fake comments. Dems want all this looked at before a vote. Rules now bar Internet providers from speeding up or slowing down traffic to and from specific sites and apps. Proposed rules would allow that as long as it's publicly disclosed.JUST WATCHED What you need to know about net neutrality Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What you need to know about net neutrality 01:46NUMBERS OF THE DAY2JUST WATCHED Trump announces shrinking of Utah monuments Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump announces shrinking of Utah monuments 02:269BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Madame President"House of Cards" will come back for one last, eight-episode season that will star Robin Wright and totally cut out Kevin Spacey.JUST WATCHED Kevin Spacey faces more sexual assault claims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kevin Spacey faces more sexual assault claims 01:27Crossover appealPBS is looking for a replacement for Charlie Rose and it's found one, at least temporarily. CNN's "Amanpour" will air on PBS on an interim basisFrozen outThat "Frozen" short featuring Olaf that runs before "Coco" is being dumped . Probably because that "short" is a not-so-short 21 minutes long.JUST WATCHED Pixar's 'Coco' - CNN Movie Pass Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pixar's 'Coco' - CNN Movie Pass 01:41The robots are comingYes, they'll probably take all of our jobs, but at least they'll be helpful in the kitchen , where they can put their voice technology and 3D printers to good use.WHAT'S FOR LUNCH'Beneath the Skin'Cuts covered her son's body after he was shot dead by a police officer in Chicago, and Cynthia Lane wants answers. CNN's Rosa Flores investigates. Watch Episode 1 of "Beneath the Skin," a three-part CNN Digital series.JUST WATCHED Beneath the Skin: Episode 1 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Beneath the Skin: Episode 1 16:24AND FINALLY ...Ridin' the rails