(CNN) Want a spectacular light show? Just look up. This year's Geminid meteor shower , which hits its peak tonight, is expected to be the best ever. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Alabama Senate raceThe ruby red state of Alabama turned blue, at least for one night. Doug Jones stunned the political world , beating Republican Roy Moore in a special election to become the first Democrat in a generation to be elected to the Senate from the state. Moore wouldn't concede the narrow loss and demanded a recount , but Alabama's secretary of state said a change is highly unlikelyThe result is an absolute game changer for Republicans and President Trump. Most of the GOP has cast a blind eye to the controversies swirling around the Trump presidency so far, but the party can't ignore a safe seat in a red state falling to Dems, especially with the midterms coming up next year. Trump, who gave Moore his full endorsement, will share the blame for this loss, and many Republicans fear the President will be an even bigger drag on them in 2018Democrats are now more energized than they've been in the Trump era. But all those Dems hopeful that Jones will be in Washington next week to vote against the GOP tax bill, slow your roll. Alabama still has to certify the results , which could take a couple weeks, meaning Jones likely won't take the oath of office until after the new year.JUST WATCHED Democratic win changes Senate, impacts Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Democratic win changes Senate, impacts Trump 01:382. Trump tweetTrump and Twitter usually equals trouble. And that's exactly what happened after the President sent out a suggestive tweet attacking New York Democratic Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand. She'd called for him to resign over the sexual harassment and assault claims against him. Trump responded by calling her a "lightweight" and saying she used to come to his business office willing to "do anything" for campaign contributions. Wow, just wow.JUST WATCHED How Sen. Gillibrand became a top Trump critic Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Sen. Gillibrand became a top Trump critic 01:483. North KoreaThe United States is willing to talk to North Korea without the regime first getting rid of its nukes, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said. That's a huge change to the Trump administration's stance. Tillerson said it's not realistic to demand the North dump its weapons program because "they have too much invested in it." And Tillerson says Trump is on board with this line of thinking. It's not clear if this change will bring the North Koreans to the negotiating table.JUST WATCHED Tillerson: US ready to talk to North Korea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tillerson: US ready to talk to North Korea 01:124. New York blastThe man who police say set off a homemade bomb in a busy pedestrian subway tunnel in the heart of New York now faces several federal and state terrorism charges . Akayed Ullah also taunted President Trump on social media before the blast, which injured five, saying, "Trump you failed to protect your nation," according to a criminal complaint. Ullah's wife, who stayed in his native Bangladesh and who spoke to him a half hour before the blast, told police she didn't know anything about what her husband may have been planning.JUST WATCHED Explosion at Port Authority Bus Terminal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Explosion at Port Authority Bus Terminal 01:155. ChinaThe Chinese government reportedly is collecting the DNA samples, fingerprints, eye scans and blood types of millions of people in its far-west Xinjiang territory. Why? Xinjiang is the only Chinese territory other than Tibet that's not majority-ethnic Han Chinese, and it's been under heavy government control and surveillance for a long time. Human rights observers call the mass collection of biodata "a gross violation."JUST WATCHED Uyghur scholar on trial for 'separatism' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Uyghur scholar on trial for 'separatism' 07:09BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Skywalker setbackDon't shoot the messenger, but "The Last Jedi" won't leave us all giddy like "The Force Awakens" did.JUST WATCHED Did royals make secret Star Wars cameo? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Did royals make secret Star Wars cameo? 02:57Douglas droughtIt's not your imagination. Christmas trees are harder to come by this year . Just one more thing we can thank the Great Recession for.Year in reviewJUST WATCHED International Women's Day reveals divides Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH International Women's Day reveals divides 02:22Reality bitesYes, those virtual reality headsets are all the rage, but the shiny gadgets can pose health risks in the real world. Here's how you can play and still be safe.QUOTE OF THE DAY"I don't know San Francisco without Ed Lee."Former San Francisco Mayor Willie Brown, talking about the death of San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee , who suffered a heart attack at age 65.JUST WATCHED San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee dead at 65 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee dead at 65 00:52AND FINALLY ...#RUDuffEnough