(CNN) A huge blaze that has devastated swaths of Southern California is on course to become the largest wildfire in the state's modern history and is expected to burn into January.The Thomas Fire , the biggest of a number of blazes currently burning in California, has torched 270,000 acres, making it the state's third-largest since reliable record-keeping began in 1932. The largest, the 2003 Cedar Fire near San Diego, destroyed 273,246 acresDiminishing winds and increasing humidity are in the forecast over the next couple of days, hopeful news for beleaguered Californians and fatigued firefighters. But there is still little rain forecast for the next 10 days, CNN meteorologist Dave Hennen said.The Thomas Fire also is currently the third-most destructive in structure losses, with more than 1,000 buildings burned, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, also known as Cal Fire.The spate of fires, which have burned for two weeks without respite, have affected over 100,000 Californians, many of whom have been forced to flee their homes, either through mandatory or voluntary evacuations -- with no guarantee that they will have anything left when they return.According to an update released by Cal Fire, 18,000 structures are still threatened as the Thomas Fire rages on. As of Sunday night, it was still only 45% contained, the alert states. Authorities predict the fire will be contained by January 7.JUST WATCHED California wildfire threatens neighborhood Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH California wildfire threatens neighborhood 01:11While thousands of residents threatened by the fire remain under evacuation, others have been allowed back in their homes -- or, at least, what was left of them.The fire is so massive that more than 8,400 firefighters are working around the clock to save lives and contain it. It has turned neighborhoods to piles of soot and concrete as it churns through the area.The latest• Improving weather conditions: Winds should die down and stay that way through Tuesday, according to the National Weather Service (NWS) Los Angeles. However, northerly winds are expected to pick back up Wednesday evening, and Santa Ana winds are possible Thursday into the weekend.• Long-awaited rain: Trace amounts of rain were observed with the frontal passage in Van Nuys, Burbank, Lancaster, Palmdale, and Los Angeles International Airport, says CNN's Pedram Javaheri.• Hefty price tag: About $110 million has been spent fighting the massive blaze, fire officials said. This year has been the About $110 million has been spent fighting the massive blaze, fire officials said. This year has been the costliest for wildfires in US history . Damages have topped $10 billion, and that was before the current fires began in Southern California.• Size: The Thomas fire has burned an area larger than New York City, Washington D.C. and San Francisco combined -- and larger than any city in California except Los Angeles.• Multiple casualties: A total of two people, including one firefighter, have been killed since the fires started.Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Flames from a back-firing operation rise behind a home off Ladera Lane near Bella Vista Drive in Santa Barbara, California, on Thursday, December 14. Powerful Santa Ana winds and extremely dry conditions are fueling wildfires in Southern California in what has been a devastating year for such natural disasters in the state. Hide Caption 1 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Fire, smoke and ash from the Thomas Fire blanket Santa Barbara on Wednesday, December 13. Hide Caption 2 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California A smoke-filled sky filters sunlight to orange around a surfer as the Thomas Fire continues to grow and threaten communities from Carpinteria to Santa Barbara on Tuesday, December 12, in Carpinteria, California. Hide Caption 3 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California People watch as firefighters battle flames in Carpinteria, California, on Monday, December 11. Hide Caption 4 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California As smoke obscures the sun, a Coulson C-130 air tanker turns to make a drop on a Carpinteria hillside on December 11. Hide Caption 5 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California As the Thomas Fire burns in the background, Dan Bellaart and his wife, Mary McEwen, comfort each other in their backyard in Montecito, California, on December 11. Hide Caption 6 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California The Thomas Fire burns in the mountains near Carpinteria on Sunday, December 10. Hide Caption 7 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Firefighters battle a wildfire as it advances on homes in Carpinteria on December 10. Hide Caption 8 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California A cloud of smoke overshadows downtown Ventura, California, on December 10. Hide Caption 9 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Horses are evacuated from the Laughing Dog Ranch as smoke from the Thomas Fire descends on the area in Ojai, California, on Saturday, December 9. Hide Caption 10 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California The shell of a burnt-out bus is seen after fire swept through residential neighborhoods near Ojai on Friday, December 8. Hide Caption 11 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Flames rise as a fire approaches the Lake Casitas area of Ojai on December 8. Hide Caption 12 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California A burnt Mercedes is seen after the Skirball Fire swept through the Los Angeles neighborhood of Bel-Air on Thursday, December 7. Hide Caption 13 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Palm trees sway in a gust of wind as a firefighter carries a hose in Ventura on December 7. Hide Caption 14 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Residents watch the Thomas Fire burn a hillside above La Conchita, California, on December 7. Hide Caption 15 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Fires surround a hilltop mansion in Los Angeles on Wednesday, December 6. Hide Caption 16 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California "Daddy, the home is gone," Amanda Lewis tells her family on December 6. The Thomas Fire raged through her parents' foothill neighborhood in Ventura. Hide Caption 17 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Smoke rises across Southern California in this image taken from the International Space Station on December 6. Hide Caption 18 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California A Los Angeles County Fire Department helicopter makes a water drop on flames after the Skirball Fire swept through Bel-Air on December 6. Hide Caption 19 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Flames from the Thomas Fire burn above a truck north of Ventura on December 6. Hide Caption 20 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Joyce George, right, comforts neighbor Dawn Reily on December 6. Reily's Ventura home was destroyed by fire. Hide Caption 21 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Flames consume vehicles in Ventura on Tuesday, December 5. Hide Caption 22 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Smoke billows from a burning house in Los Angeles as the Creek Fire moves through the area on December 5. Hide Caption 23 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California A man watches as a wildfire burns in Ventura on December 5. Hide Caption 24 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California The Creek Fire burns on a hillside in the Shadow Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles on December 5. Hide Caption 25 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California A firefighter battles a blaze in the Lake View Terrace area of Los Angeles on December 5. Hide Caption 26 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Antoine Hanna comforts his wife, Tammy, after firefighters saved their home in Ventura on December 5. Hide Caption 27 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California This Ventura apartment complex, seen on December 5, was destroyed by fire. Hide Caption 28 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California A firefighter sprays water at a burning house in the Lake View Terrace area of Los Angeles on December 5. Hide Caption 29 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Palm trees burn in Ventura on December 5. Hide Caption 30 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Ventura County firefighter Aaron Cohen rests on December 5. Hide Caption 31 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California A man prepares to evacuate his house in Santa Paula, California, on December 5. Hide Caption 32 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California A man tries to catch a horse that got loose in the Lake View Terrace area of Los Angeles on December 5. Hide Caption 33 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Shrubs burn near a home in Ventura on December 5. Hide Caption 34 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California James and Josie Ralstin carry belongings retrieved from their home in Ventura on December 5. Hide Caption 35 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California Firefighters work to put out a blaze engulfing homes in Ventura on December 5. Hide Caption 36 of 37 Photos: Wildfires spread in Southern California The Thomas Fire burns along a hillside near Santa Paula on December 5. Hide Caption 37 of 37Funeral processionA funeral procession passing through five counties Sunday carried the remains of firefighter Cory David Iverson, 32, who died in the blaze . The procession began in Ventura and passed through Los Angeles, San Bernardino and Riverside counties before arriving at at a funeral home in San Diego.Iverson, from Escondido, leaves behind his pregnant wife and 2-year-old daughter, according to CNN affiliate KCAL.He died of "thermal injuries and smoke inhalation," according to autopsy results from the Ventura County medical examiner's office. An investigation into the death is underway, KCAL reported..@CAL_FIRE Engineer Cory Iverson was taken back to San Diego today. We are humbled by the outpouring of support along the route from the public and from our public safety partners. Thanks to @CHP_HQ for helping us in getting Cory home. pic.twitter.com/1lahxOV7AI — Chief Ken Pimlott (@CALFIRE_CHIEF) December 18, 2017The affiliate reported that first-responders including firefighters, many of whom didn't know Iverson personally, lined the procession route.Many praised the young firefighter's actions."With Cory, they said, he got his guys out first. And he didn't get out. So (he was) the captain of the ship," Bruce Cartelli, retired San Diego Fire Chief, told KCAL.JUST WATCHED Thomas Fire scorches southern California Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Thomas Fire scorches southern California 01:03Resident: 100-foot flames all around usJeannette Frescas told CNN affiliate KEYT that she was awakened by towering flames when the fire reached her neighborhood in Ventura, California."I looked out my window and there were flames that were like, a hundred feet, all around us," Frescas said.Like many residents, Frescas was caught off guard by the fire."What was once a paradise was like a war zone," Frescas said of her apartment complex, which was destroyed by the blaze. "It's the scariest thing I've been through in my entire life."Ventura resident Patricia Rye woke up to her son-in-law pounding on her door. She didn't get a chance to pack any valuables, and fled her home of 17 years in the dead of the night."I didn't have time to take anything," Rye told the affiliate. "My wallet, or any of my personal things. I literally left with the clothes on my back."