(CNN) Remember the "WannaCry" cyberattack earlier this year? Looks like the US is pinning it on North Korea . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Amtrak crashAt least three people are dead and more than 100 others injured after an Amtrak train derailed yesterday in Washington state. The train was on its first trip on a new route between Seattle and Portland when 13 of its cars jumped the track. Several of them fell from an overpass onto a busy interstate highway. None of the reported fatalities involved people on the highway. Positive train control -- which uses GPS, wireless radio and computers to monitor trains and stop them from colliding, derailing or speeding -- was not activated at the time of the crash, a rail line spokesman said.The train reportedly was traveling 80 mph in a 30-mph zone, which will be one of the main details investigators will look at in the coming days . They may also look at the so-called black box, or event data recorder, to get more information about the train's braking and other operational details. The federal go-team will also interview the engineer, conductor and the other three crew members.2. Trump nomineeJUST WATCHED Trump judicial nominee withdraws nomination Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump judicial nominee withdraws nomination 01:033. AustriaAustria's new coalition government, which includes the far-right Freedom Party, was sworn in yesterday amid protests . Though the Freedom Party will argue it has modernized, it was founded in the 1950s by actual former Nazis. Also raising some eyebrows is the country's new Chancellor, Sebastian Kurz. He is the leader of the center-right People's Party and, at 31, is the youngest major leader in the world. Protesters shouted in the streets, bearing signs with pleas like, "Don't let Nazis govern."JUST WATCHED Austria elects far-right chancellor Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Austria elects far-right chancellor 01:104. LibyaAnother MP called the crimes depicted in the video "atrocious," acknowledging that "nobody really knows the extent of the problem." He argued that the power vacuum in Libya and the root causes of migration need to be addressed before any solutions can be found.JUST WATCHED CNN team recounts uncovering slavery in Libya Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN team recounts uncovering slavery in Libya 03:325. ESPNESPN staffers and personalities around the world of sports are reeling after the surprise resignation of ESPN President John Skipper . Skipper resigned on Monday, citing a substance addiction. "I have struggled for many years with a substance addiction," Skipper said in a statement. "I have decided that the most important thing I can do right now is to take care of my problem." According to an ESPN source, the announcement was solely because of addiction and was unrelated to last week's announcement that Disney would acquire most of 21st Century Fox. That deal would bring 22 regional sports networks previously owned by Fox under ESPN's controlJUST WATCHED ESPN president resigns, citing addiction Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH ESPN president resigns, citing addiction 01:17BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Sarah Palin's oldest son charged with beating up his fatherJUST WATCHED Sarah Palin's oldest son arrested for assault Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sarah Palin's oldest son arrested for assault 02:48The digital currency bitcoin is the hottest online movementJUST WATCHED How to buy and sell bitcoin Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How to buy and sell bitcoin 02:46Nobody liked 'A Christmas Story Live!'Maybe now we can stop messing around with classic movies that were perfectly fine to begin with.Wacky Idaho city council race result could be the most interesting election outcome of the yearFacebook will demote posts fishing for 'likes'JUST WATCHED Zuckerberg speech sounds a lot like a campaign Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Zuckerberg speech sounds a lot like a campaign 04:00QUOTE OF THE DAY"My personal belief is that there is very compelling evidence that we may not be alone."Former Pentagon official Luis Elizondo on the r ecently revealed government program he led to research potential UFOs, speaking on CNN's "Erin Burnett OutFront"JUST WATCHED Former official on UFOs: We might not be alone Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Former official on UFOs: We might not be alone 02:15AND FINALLY ...Kinda wanna burn it, kinda wanna ... eat it?If you are in the mood for deeply satisfying holiday videos, the making of this Christmas candle will be right up your alley. (Click here to view.)