(CNN) Can't stand crashing on your brother's couch when you visit for the holidays? Here's how to tell family you're staying at a hotel . And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. BrexitWe haven't talked about Brexit in forever, probably because the negotiations have been a lot less interesting than last year's historic vote. But the UK's divorce from the European Union has crossed a major hurdle, with a deal reached on the issue of the Irish border . Ireland is staying in the EU, and there were fears that border checkpoints between Ireland (which remains in the EU) and Northern Ireland (part of the UK) would hurt both economies and lead to unrest in the North. But this morning, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and British Prime Minister Theresa May announced there would be no "hard" border controls between the two. Now, Brexit talks move on to the truly hard work : hammering out a trade agreement.2. Russia investigationThe British publicist who arranged the June 2016 meeting with Russians and Donald Trump Jr. sent multiple emails to a Russian participant and a member of Donald Trump's inner circle later that summer, multiple sources told CNN, the first indication there was any follow-up after the meeting.The emails raise new questions for congressional investigators about what was discussed at Trump Tower. Trump Jr. has for months contended that after being promised he would get dirt on Hillary Clinton, the brief meeting focused almost exclusively on the issue of Russian adoptions, saying there was no discussion with the participants after that session.JUST WATCHED Emails show Trump Tower meeting follow-up Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Emails show Trump Tower meeting follow-up 05:493. Sexual harassment and CongressTwo more members of Congress are leaving amid claims of sexual harassment. Arizona Republican Rep. Trent Franks put out a statement last night saying he'll resign in January. Franks said he had talked with two female staffers about them possibly becoming surrogates who could bear children for him and his wife. He acknowledged this made them uncomfortable but denied any sexual contact with them. The House Ethics Committee was about to start investigating him. CNN's Chris Cillizza says the whole thing is just plain bizarreJUST WATCHED 2 GOP lawmakers under ethics investigations Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2 GOP lawmakers under ethics investigations 02:11JUST WATCHED White House responds to Franken call out Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH White House responds to Franken call out 03:114. California wildfiresJUST WATCHED California wildfire burns homes, kills horses Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH California wildfire burns homes, kills horses 02:075. School shootingTwo students were killed in a shooting at a high school in New Mexico. The shooter, who also was killed, was male, but officials haven't said if he was a student. The shooting happened right around 8 a.m. at Aztec High School in Aztec, a small town about three hours from Albuquerque. Students talked of hearing gunshots and hiding in their classrooms.NUMBERS OF THE DAY20 yearsThat's the prison sentence given to ex-South Carolina police officer Michael Slager, who killed Walter Scott in April 2015. Scott's slaying reignited "Black Lives Matter" protests.JUST WATCHED Family lawyer: Slager sentencing 'historic' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Family lawyer: Slager sentencing 'historic' 01:3712,000The number of jobs General Electric is cutting , as CEO John Flannery tries to slash costs. GE is the Dow's worst-performing stock this year, down 44%.JUST WATCHED 5 stunning stats about General Electric Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 5 stunning stats about General Electric 01:26BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Mirror, mirrorYeah, we like augmented reality and games, but the list of the year's most downloaded iOS apps shows we really like apps that help us look at ourselves.'Star Wars' islandYou saw it at the end of "The Force Awakens." Now, take a closer look at Ireland's rustic Skellig Islands before "The Last Jedi" blasts into theaters.JUST WATCHED Rocky islands get 'Star Wars' boost Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rocky islands get 'Star Wars' boost 02:12Trip to tomorrowCars of the future may not be able to fly us to our destination, but at least they'll take care of parking for us.Kind of blueDon't freak out when you step into the bathroom at this Sheetz gas station in Pennsylvania. The blue lights are a way to fight the opioid epidemicWHAT'S FOR LUNCHRally timePresident Trump will hold a rally tonight in Pensacola, Florida , not far from the Alabama border and that state's contentious Senate race.JUST WATCHED Roy Moore invokes Trump catchphrase Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Roy Moore invokes Trump catchphrase 02:50QUIZ TIMETiberias, Tel Aviv, Haifa or Jerusalem? Take CNN's weekly news quiz -- Which city did President Trump declare the capital of Israel? Was itor? Take CNN's weekly news quiz -- Total Recall -- to find out the answer.QUOTE OF THE DAY"A Texas Christmas Miracle!!!"The social media reaction Thursday by a resident of the southern part of the Lone Star State as big and fluffy snowflakes fellAND FINALLY ...Rock on