If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) You don't have to feel helpless in the face of so much grim news. Check out CNN's Impact Your World to find out how you can help those who are hurting. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Pittsburgh synagogue attack2. Indonesia plane crashLion Air flight 610 was essentially a new jet, so why did it crash into the Java Sea minutes after takeoff from Jakarta, killing 189 people? Investigators seek to answer that question, as divers work to retrieve passengers' remains. A few bodies have been recovered, along with assorted personal items found at the watery crash site, but Indonesian authorities said it's unlikely the remains of all passengers will be found . The jet was a Boeing 737 MAX 8, one of the plane maker's newest and most advanced jets . It had only flown 800 hours. Since weather doesn't seem to be a factor and the pilots were experienced, the focus of the investigation will be on the aircraft, a former NTSB official said. Click here for the latest updates on this air tragedy.3. ImmigrationPresident Trump is sending 5,200 troops and military equipment to the southern US border. The troops will be there to stop a large group of Central American migrants bound for the US, although they're still hundreds of miles away. Trump says he's keeping his promise to protect America's borders, but critics say this is just a play to his conservative base a few days before the midterm elections. Many of the migrants reportedly plan to ask for asylum, but the Trump administration is coming up with a plan to limit the number of people who could make such a request by creating a waitlist and forcing those seeking asylum as a family to choose between being detained together during immigration proceedings or having children separated from their parents.JUST WATCHED Migrants continue north, reject Trump's tweets Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Migrants continue north, reject Trump's tweets 03:514. Angela MerkelThe woman often called the most powerful woman in the world is about to give up her power. German Chancellor Angela Merkel won't seek re-election when her term expires in 2021. The four-term Chancellor, who's led Germany since 2005, said it's "time today for me to start a new chapter." The decision means Merkel's dominance of politics in Europe is coming to an end. One policy analyst suggested Merkel, 64, stepping off the world stage means global politics could get even more "disorderly." Merkel's popularity in her country has waned, in part because of the refugee crisis of the past few years. Learn more about her political career and scroll through pictures of her life.JUST WATCHED Angela Merkel will not seek re-election Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Angela Merkel will not seek re-election 01:205. WildlifeWildlife populations across the globe have fallen by more than half in just over 40 years -- and it's all man's fault. This dire portrait of the world comes via a new report from the World Wildlife Fund. It says populations of more than 4,000 mammal, bird, fish, reptile and amphibian species declined 60% between 1970 and 2014. The report blames deforestation, pollution and climate change caused by humans for the rapid wildlife declines. World Wildlife Fund wants an international treaty, similar to the Paris climate agreement, to protect wildlife and reverse human impacts on nature. The group's leader urged action now, saying, "We are the first generation to know we are destroying our planet and the last one that can do anything about it."JUST WATCHED Vanishing: The extinction crisis is worse than you think Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Vanishing: The extinction crisis is worse than you think 23:02BREAKFAST BROWSEMystery solvedRemember that viral photo of the couple that got engaged at Yosemite? The photographer said he's found themJUST WATCHED Couple in viral engagement photo found Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Couple in viral engagement photo found 02:11Good-bye Apu?Is "The Simpsons" about to drop Apu, the Indian-American character deemed offensive by some? Don't believe the hype , says the show's executive producer.JUST WATCHED Producer creates contest to rewrite 'Simpsons' Apu (May 2018) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Producer creates contest to rewrite 'Simpsons' Apu (May 2018) 01:33Not too happyPresident Trump's been playing Pharrell's "Happy" at rallies. The hip-hop hitmaker wants him to cut it out (and really, haven't we all heard it enough?).Grab and goWalmart's getting in the cashierless store game . It's setting up a Sam's Club Now store in Dallas that'll operate an awful lot like an Amazon Go storeJUST WATCHED How Walmart is taking on Amazon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Walmart is taking on Amazon 01:11Fixer upperWhy buy a house in New Zealand when you can buy a whole town ? One on a lake on the country's South Island is on sale for a cool $2.8 million.HAPPENING LATERApple alertApple's keeping the details about its event this morning in New York under wraps, but word on the street is that the tech giant will unveil some new iPadsJUST WATCHED This is how much money Apple makes on iPhones​ Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This is how much money Apple makes on iPhones​ 00:57TODAY'S QUOTE"We're broken as a club, broken as a city, but we've come together before."Leicester City Football Club fan Geoff Peters, describing how Leicester, England, is trying to heal after the death Saturday of the team's owner, Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha, in a helicopter crash near the club's stadiumJUST WATCHED Leicester City confirms owner's death in crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Leicester City confirms owner's death in crash 01:53AND FINALLYCat walk