Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) El Chapo's demands. Kim's plans. And Trump's hands. It's Friday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .CAMPAIGN 2016Must-see TV: Backstabbing. Insults. Secret plots. Yes Amazing Race: GOP Edition is the best show on air, and it had its best episode yet yesterday. Let's review:-- The old nominee (Mitt Romney), a character we all thought had been written out, returns and calls the wannabe nominee (The Donald) a phony and fraud . The Donald, in turn, calls Romney a " choke artist ." Oh, and Romney put in motion a plot to swipe the nomination from Trump at the convention (Gee, we wonder why?).-- The show has something of a mid-season cliffhanger on March 15, when everyone not named Trump hopes the day's primaries and caucuses trip him up into a brokered convention. Even if that doesn't work, this thing is definitely headed for a fantastic fall finish.JUST WATCHED Would the GOP candidates support Trump as nominee? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Would the GOP candidates support Trump as nominee? 01:14NORTH KOREANuke kid on the bloc: Another day, another bit of bluster from North Korea. As usual, it comes straight from the top, with leader Kim Jong Un demanding the country's nukes be : Another day, another bit of bluster from North Korea. As usual, it comes straight from the top, with leader Kim Jong Un demanding the country's nukes be ready for use "at any time." Folks in the know say Kim's audience for this is more inside the county than out of it. And one observer notes the North isn't crazy: "They know that if they ... used nuclear weapons, they would cease to exist." Then again, it is Lil' Kim.JUST WATCHED North Korea orders nukes ready for use Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North Korea orders nukes ready for use 00:47SYRIALet there be light: The power went out yesterday in Syria, but that's not really news, since electricity has been anything but dependable during five years of war between the regime, rebels and ragtag terror groups. What's newsworthy about this : The power went out yesterday in Syria, but that's not really news, since electricity has been anything but dependable during five years of war between the regime, rebels and ragtag terror groups. What's newsworthy about this outage was that it was nationwide . Militants hit a power-generating station with rockets earlier, but it was unclear if that's what pulled the plug. No word on how the lack of juice was affecting the truce.Photos: Aleppo on the first day of the ceasefire Streets of Aleppo are relatively quiet on Saturday, February 27, after a temporary ceasefire takes effect. Sporadic violence between militants and some rebel groups was reported around the country, but it appeared to have diminished significantly. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Aleppo on the first day of the ceasefire Residents in the Syrian city of Aleppo appear to enjoy an unusually calm and peaceful day as a temporary ceasefire takes effect. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Aleppo on the first day of the ceasefire Residents shot at a city market in Aleppo. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Aleppo on the first day of the ceasefire Children play in an Aleppo park. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Aleppo on the first day of the ceasefire A boy walks a hand truck through a heavily damaged area in Aleppo. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Aleppo on the first day of the ceasefire A boy rides a bike during the ceasefire. Hide Caption 6 of 6EL CHAPOWell, it's not a Holiday Inn: We knew Mexican prisons were no picnic. But when notorious drug lord Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman says he'd rather : We knew Mexican prisons were no picnic. But when notorious drug lord Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman says he'd rather be extradited to America (where he's wanted in seven states), it tells you just how crappy things have gotten for him since he pulled that break-out-of-jail stunt . El Chapo says the the isolation, cold cells and lack of sleep is turning him into a zombie . Officials say he's playing the world's smallest violin.Photos: 'El Chapo' in prison Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman stands in his cell at the Altiplano Federal Prison in Mexico. Increased security measures are being used by authorities to make sure the cartel kingpin doesn't break out of prison for a third time. His most recent escape came in July, when he got out through a hole in the floor of his cell's shower stall. The images in this gallery were obtained by Mexican journalist Carlos Loret de Mola. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: 'El Chapo' in prison Military vehicles and canine officers guard the Altiplano prison. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: 'El Chapo' in prison Guards walk down a hallway of the prison, which has installed 400 new cameras. Authorities hope to add another 600 by April. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: 'El Chapo' in prison An X-ray machine is guarded at the prison's entrance.Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: 'El Chapo' in prison A body scan machine is also at the front entrance. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: 'El Chapo' in prison An officer operates the body scan machine. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: 'El Chapo' in prison An officer at the entrance swabs a visitor to detect explosives. Hide Caption 7 of 7MIGRANTSLip lock: Hunger strikes didn't work. Neither did trying to hang themselves from a tree (they tried that in Athens). So, some migrants at a camp in northern France : Hunger strikes didn't work. Neither did trying to hang themselves from a tree (they tried that in Athens). So, some migrants at a camp in northern France stitched their mouths shut to call attention to the deplorable conditions there. Local officials said such an extreme protest was unwarranted. But the migrants reaction seemed to be -- do we have your attention now?JUST WATCHED Migrants stitch lips shut in hunger strike Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Migrants stitch lips shut in hunger strike 00:57BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Tax revolt(ing)Did you know some states levy a "tampon tax ?" Because they consider feminine hygiene products "luxury" items. Yes, really.Them's the breaksThe Blade Runner's request to appeal his murder conviction has been rejected , so it's on to sentencing. He faces 15 years in prison.A header for scienceU.S. soccer icon Brandi Chastain says she's donating her brain to Boston University to help study CTE . Because concussions aren't just for football.Finger lickin' lieKFC's new Colonel Sanders is black! At least that's what the world thought for a few hours yesterday. Turns out David Alan Grier was just kiddingBaked AlaskaIt's unusually warm in Alaska, and it's hard to race dogs in the snow without, um, snow, so Iditarod organizers hauled in 300 cubic yards of the white stuff.Number of the day$1 million+Value of seven Ty Cobb baseball cards a family found at the bottom of a crumpled paper bag while cleaning out great grampa's house. Score!AND FINALLY ...Face/OnIf you didn't shell out 99 cents for FaceSwap Live yet, you're missing out. Though we doubt you can use it in such genius fashion.