Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here.(CNN) We try to bring you the news with a dose of humor But like the rest of the world, our hearts are heavy today. So our take will be a little different. Here are the 5 things you need to know Wednesday to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.BRUSSELS ATTACKAfter the carnage: Belgium's mourning today. But for investigators, there's no time for tears. : Belgium's mourning today. But for investigators, there's no time for tears. They've ID'd two attackers : brothers Khalid and Brahim El Bakraoui. Both were known to cops for organized crime - not acts of terrorism. The pair blew themselves up in the Brussels Airport attack. The hunt's on for a third man, seen in security footage next to the brothers. A cabbie, who drove the three to the airport, led police to their airport. Inside, they found a nail bomb and an ISIS flag. If the same type of bombs were used in Paris attacks , that'd a key clue linking the two. Here's the latestJUST WATCHED Brussels: Through the eyes of survivors Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Brussels: Through the eyes of survivors 01:58GLOBAL REACTIONFear, resilience: Attackers may have targeted the heart of Europe, but the impact rippled globally. Officials faced a tricky balance of urging vigilance while reassuring jittery residents there are no known credible threats. Major European cities stepped up security, and : Attackers may have targeted the heart of Europe, but the impact rippled globally. Officials faced a tricky balance of urging vigilance while reassuring jittery residents there are no known credible threats. Major European cities stepped up security, and so did the U.S . This morning, we're slowly learning about the victims. One of them was Adelma Marina Tapia Ruiz, a mother of two little girls, who was moments away from boarding a plane to New York, where she was reuniting with her family for Easter.JUST WATCHED 2016 candidates on how they'd react to Brussels Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2016 candidates on how they'd react to Brussels 02:43