Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Death in the park. Suspects on the run. New York on the mind. It's Monday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .PAKISTAN EXPLOSION: Easter Sunday in the park would seem to be a safe place to be. Not in Pakistan yesterday. Terrorists from a Pakistani Taliban splinter group shattered a day in the park in Lahore with a suicide blast that killed at least 69 people , many of them women and children. The terrorists said they were targeting Christians and promised more attacks.EUROPE ATTACKS: Security agencies in Europe are frantically searching for at least eight suspects tied to the ISIS attacks in Paris and Brussels. All but one of the suspects are connected to Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the leader of the Paris attacks, or Salah Abdeslam, the only surviving Paris attacker who was arrested in Belgium. Meanwhile, anti-immigrant protesters stormed into a memorial in Brussels with Nazi-like salutes, and a man nabbed in the Netherlands is reportedly linked to a foiled terror plot suspect in France.See an exclusive look inside Abdeslam's inner circleSee an exclusive look inside Abdeslam's inner circle 03:29See an exclusive look inside Abdeslam's inner circleCAMPAIGN 2016JUST WATCHED Trump, Sanders have widened the "spectrum" of opinion Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump, Sanders have widened the "spectrum" of opinion 04:25SYRIA CIVIL WARDon't you come back no more: Who's up for some good news on the terrorism front? : Who's up for some good news on the terrorism front? ISIS has been driven out of Palmyra , thanks to Syrian forces and government-friendly militias. ISIS demolished numerous historical sites when it took over the area in May. Now archaeologists and others can start to assess the extent of the damage. The retaking of Palmyra falls in line with a developing narrative that ISIS is in retreat, with the terror group losing more than a third of its territory in Iraq and Syria.Photos: Syrian pro-government forces walk on a street in the ancient city of Palmyra on March 27, 2016, after troops recaptured the city from ISIS. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: The ancient city of Palmyra as seen from a residential neighborhood of the modern part of the town. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Part of the ancient city of Palmyra. The UNESCO world heritage site was widely feared to have been razed by ISIS militants. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Greco-Roman inspired Persian columns remain standing after Syrian troops routed ISIS militants and recaptured the ancient city, once an oasis on a vital caravan route. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: A relief carved into an ancient ruin in the city of Palmyra, recently liberated from ISIS control. Fears of widespread destruction to the UNESCO site appear to have been at least partly ameliorated. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: The amphitheater in the ancient Syrian city of Palmyra, largely undamaged after government troops recaptured the site. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Graffiti seen on ancient stones that made up the 1st-century city of Palmyra, after the city was retaken by Syrian forces with Russian air support. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: The remains of the entrance to the iconic Temple of Bel, destroyed by ISIS jihadists in September 2015 in the ancient city. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Syrian pro-government forces gesture next to the Palmyra citadel. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: A member of the Syrian pro-government forces flashes the V-sign in a residential neighborhood of the modern town of Palmyra. Hide Caption 10 of 10SOUTH CHINA SEA CONTROVERSYWater wars: The battle for the South China Sea just gained a new combatant. The battle for the South China Sea just gained a new combatant. Taiwan has entered the fray , saying its six-decade occupation of tiny Taiping Island means it controls the waters surrounding it. That'll probably be news to all the other countries laying claim to all (China) or parts (Vietnam, Taiwan, Indonesia, Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei) of those contested waters. China's making everyone nervous by building a bunch of man-made islands in the area, and its navy and the U.S. have already shadowboxed over the issue.JUST WATCHED Power struggle over island in South China Sea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Power struggle over island in South China Sea 03:11BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:"When it came time ... the parents just bum-rushed that area"Nicole Welch, following an West Haven, Connecticut, resident, following an Easter egg hunt that was canceled after parents stormed the field.Got my mind set on youHate him or love him, there's something about The Donald -- his face, his voice, his message -- that lights your brain up like a Christmas tree.Wolverine's weekendHe didn't break out the razor-sharp claws, but Hugh Jackman was a hero just the same Saturday when he rescued some swimmers, including his own son.Domo arigato Misuta RobotoRock 'n' roll ain't noise pollutionLocal English kids with a band and a dream run afoul of The Man's anti-noise ordinance. So they call in the big guns and ask the Foo Fighters for help.Toxic chocolate?A new survey warns that some chocolate contains elevated levels of lead . Yeah, like we're going to let a little lead get between us and a chocolate fix.AND FINALLY ...JUST WATCHED Bird lands on podium; crowd erupts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bird lands on podium; crowd erupts 01:06Bernie and the birdWe don't normally put politics here, but you can't help but smile at Uncle Bernie's reaction to a bird that landed on his podium during a speech in Oregon.