Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A 5th suspect. A 4-4 tie. And 2 pieces of debris. It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door:BRUSSELS ATTACKAuthorities now think there was a second man involved in the bombing at the Brussels train station. That brings the total number of men who carried out the airport-and-subway attacks to five. We know three died in the airport blast. We've seen the image of one suspect who may be on the run. And now, there's this guy, seen in surveillance holding a large bag. It all points to a much bigger terror network than suspected. And cops are playing catch-up, hoping there isn't another attack before they figure things out.TRANSGENDER BATHROOM BILLSUPREME COURTFour on four: This, ladies and gentleman, is why the Supreme Court needs nine justices. The court heard arguments yesterday on the latest challenge to Obamacare: whether the government can require employers to provide free contraception coverage to female workers. Religious groups say this violates their belief -- even though they can opt out just by filling out some forms. Well, This, ladies and gentleman, is why the Supreme Court needs nine justices. The court heard arguments yesterday on the latest challenge to Obamacare: whether the government can require employers to provide free contraception coverage to female workers. Religious groups say this violates their belief -- even though they can opt out just by filling out some forms. Well, the Supremes appear evenly divided on this one ; a 4-4 tie. Paging Merrick Garland , or really, anyone.A view of the US Supreme Court is seen March 18, 2016 in Washington, DC.CAMPAIGN 2016Wisconsin Gov. Scott WalkerMH370Mysteries of the deep: It's taken a couple of years, but the Indian Ocean is finally giving up its It's taken a couple of years, but the Indian Ocean is finally giving up its MH370 secrets . Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique last month are "highly likely" to be from the wreckage of the missing Malaysia Airlines flight, officials said today. The paint and other markings match the airline. The parts are consistent with the only missing 777. It's not hard to connect the dots. But are we any closer to finding the main wreckage? No one knows.JUST WATCHED Australian government: Plane debris 'likely' from MH370 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Australian government: Plane debris 'likely' from MH370 02:10BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Number of the Day: $30-$35 millionThe price Sotheby's expects a 10.10 carat rare blue diamond to fetch at auction. A small price to pay for that special someone in your life.Ridin' nerdyReaction poured in from all around when the word warrior Phife Dawg of a Tribe Called Quest died . But none was as fanboy-a-licious as this tribute from an Atlanta traffic reporter.Snakes on a plateBa(l)d SantaDavid Letterman, proving it's not the camera but rather staying away from it , that adds 10 pounds!David Letterman: Before and after retirementFlights of fancyLove Uber? But wish you could ride-share on a private jet? Well, there's an app for thatPaper thinWomen in China are posting pix of themselves with A4 sheets to see if their waists can hide behind its 8.3-inch width. The state paper calls it a "fitness challenge." #oofAND FINALLY ...Clearly, The Donald is in love with love.