If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Traveling today? You may want to double-check your flight: Stormy weather could cause flight delays or cancellations throughout the Northeast.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Puerto RicoThe latest round of gubernatorial musical chairs in Puerto Rico is finally over, but the political unease will definitely linger. Justice Secretary Wanda Vázquez Garced was sworn in yesterday afternoon , just hours after Puerto Rico's Supreme Court effectively ousted attorney Pedro Pierluisi, the handpicked successor of disgraced ex-Gov. Ricardo Rosselló. Rosselló recently resigned amid islandwide protests and unrest. If you're keeping count, that's three governors in less than a week. Neither Pierluisi nor Vázquez were popular choices, and some Puerto Ricans thought Vázquez would take the oath only to name a new secretary of state who could take over as governor. With no clear solution for Puerto Rio's economic woes and political infighting, getting the governor thing settled is just the first step in creating some stability.Behind the story that led to mass protests in Puerto RicoBehind the story that led to mass protests in Puerto Rico 03:12Behind the story that led to mass protests in Puerto Rico2. Stabbing rampageFour people are dead and two others are wounded after a man went on a stabbing rampage in Southern California. Police say the suspect killed two people at an apartment complex, a security guard at a 7-Eleven and a person at a Subway restaurant before being arrested outside a 7-Eleven. Authorities have not identified the suspect. There are no known connections between the suspect and the victims. With a country on edge following mass shooting attacks , police noted that the motive in the stabbing spree appears to be robbery.JUST WATCHED Man arrested after stabbing rampage that killed 4 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man arrested after stabbing rampage that killed 4 00:393. Hong KongThe US is the latest country to issue a travel warning over Hong Kong's ongoing protests. The wide-ranging demonstrations started over an extradition bill and have grown to include all manner of political grievance. They have been generally peaceful over the last nine weeks but at times have taken violent and unexpected turns. The US advisory doesn't go as far as telling people to avoid Hong Kong but warns those visiting to avoid the demonstrations, keep a low profile and exercise caution if caught in or around the fray. Similar warnings have been issued by countries including Australia, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Japan and Singapore.JUST WATCHED Hong Kong protests continute for ninth consecutive weekend Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hong Kong protests continute for ninth consecutive weekend 01:024. White House5. ZimbabweA severe drought in Zimbabwe has left millions of people facing starvation . Drought ravaged the southern African nation from October to May, and conditions were worsened by a powerful cyclone that ripped through the area in March. As a result, 2 million people have little to no access to clean water. If that kind of danger isn't enough of a crisis, reports from world organizations paint an even bleaker picture of the future. According to the UN, nearly 5.5 million people in the country will need food assistance by 2020.TODAY'S QUOTES"I'm confident that it is them."Jane MacLatchy of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police in Manitoba, announcing that authorities Assistant Commissionerof the Royal Canadian Mounted Police in Manitoba, announcing that authorities believe they have found the bodies of two Canadian men suspected of killing three people last monthJUST WATCHED Authorities believe bodies of accused teen killers found Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Authorities believe bodies of accused teen killers found 01:24"We will be thoughtful and deliberate in our responses, and we will act in a way that reflects the best values and ideals of our company, with a focus on serving the needs of our customers, associates and communities."Doug McMillon, who Walmart CEO, who said in a LinkedIn post that the company would address the issues of gun violence and gun sales raised by the recent Walmart shootings in Texas and MississippiJUST WATCHED Powerful messages left for Trump at El Paso memorial Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Powerful messages left for Trump at El Paso memorial 02:22BREAKFAST BROWSEZillow wants to transition to a real estate service, but it's not going wellBecause there's a BIG difference between idly browsing for your dream house and, you know, actually buying it.Earth's roaming magnetic poles create longer periods of instabilityBad mood? Life a disaster? Blame " roaming magnetic poles !" It's the new "Mercury retrograde."JUST WATCHED Earth's north magnetic pole is on the move Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Earth's north magnetic pole is on the move 00:48Samsung is getting rid of the headphone jack on its popular phonesCrashed spacecraft may have left tiny, hardy 'moss piglets' on the moonDisney will remake 'Home Alone' for its streaming serviceJUST WATCHED Disney will remake 'Home Alone' for its streaming service Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Disney will remake 'Home Alone' for its streaming service 01:11TODAY'S NUMBER127The number of reports of seizures or other neurological symptoms possibly related to e-cigarettes received by the US Food and Drug Administration between 2010 and 2019JUST WATCHED FDA releases anti-vaping TV ads aimed at teens Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH FDA releases anti-vaping TV ads aimed at teens 01:25TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe storms threaten Northeast again while heat builds down south Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe storms threaten Northeast again while heat builds down south 01:45AND FINALLYScience is weird. And amazing