Even though my brother and I make fun of him with unrelenting brutality, my dad is definitely one.But heroes don't have to stay with you for your whole life to leave an impression.Most come and go, flexing their super powers just when you need them most.Like when you forget to wear deodorant, but your friend happens to have a stick handy.Or when your pet escapes, but friends, neighbors and even total strangers drop everything to help bring them home.This week, we have tons of stories celebrating those everyday heroes. Here's to the ones that don't wear capes!Our favorites this weekGet going with some of our most popular good news stories of the weekJob hunting the hard way ... with a happy ending :)Let's be real: losing your job stinks. And like any of us, Patrick Hoagland of Phoenix was bummed out when he got laid off from his job as a forklift operator. After weeks of sending applications into the Internet abyss with no success, Hoagland decided to try something different. So he made a sign, printed 200 copies of his résumé and started handing them out on the street to anyone who would take one. One of those people was Melissa DiGianfilippo. Hoagland wasn't a good fit at her company, but she was so impressed with his hustle that she posted his résumé on social media and soon after, job offers started flying in. Hoagland has since accepted a position at a Phoenix concrete grinding company . He told CNN he couldn't be more thankful for what DiGianfilippo did for him. "She has been so great, she didn't need to help me, but she did and it has changed my life," he said. "I am so grateful for her."When cancer sidelined him, neighbors saved his harvestLarry Yockey is a fourth-generation farmer who works the same land in Ritzville, Washington, that his father and grandfather farmed. But in February, he received a devastating diagnosis: stage 4 cancer, which has spread to Yockey's bones. For the first time in 50 years, he feared he wouldn't be able to harvest his wheat, the source of nearly all of his income. After mentioning his concern to neighbors, he looked out at his fields last month to find a big surprise. Dozens of vehicles, farmers and other volunteers pulled up to help harvest his wheat, and within eight hours, they'd completed three weeks worth of work . Farmers usually aren't the kind to ask for help, but Yockey says he doesn't know what he would have done without them. "'Thank you' really doesn't even do justice here," he said.A priceless ring is lost and found thanks to social mediaPatrick Waddell lost his wife to colon cancer in 2016. But since then, he's always kept her close by carrying their wedding rings with him. He even had a jeweler weld them together and wears them on a chain. But while picking up a golf cart on vacation last week near Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, he made a devastating discovery: The rings were gone. Waddell wasn't sure where he left them or how to get them back, so he turned to Facebook for help. He tagged the campground near where he picked up the golf cart and a few days later, he got a call from the golf cart store that the rings were found . As you can see, they apparently took quite a beating while they were missing. But Waddell could not care less about the dents and scratches. He's just glad to have them back. "The rings being damaged, that's what it reminds me of. Every flaw that you have, it makes up who you are," he said.Raise a glass to ...I know. You've heard alllllll the ways to supposedly lead a healthier, longer life. Exercise . Don't eat Taco Bell for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Drink coffee (but not too much?) . Well, Louise Signore, who lives in the Bronx in New York and just celebrated her 107th birthday this week, offered a new bit of advice: Don't get married . "I think the secret of 107: I never got married. I think that's the secret. My sister says, 'I wish I never got married,'" Signore said. Whether that's really the secret or not, it's hard to argue with the results. Happy birthday, Louise!A bright ideaI don't know about you, but I had pretty limited aspirations for my high school science fair projects: 1) Earn a passing grade and 2) Don't blow anything up. Well, one 18-year-old high-achiever's science fair project has put us all to shame, and may have found a solution to one of the world's biggest problems: The tiny bits of plastic waste that are choking our oceans. For his project, Fionn Ferreira developed a method to extract microplastics from water using magnetic liquids called ferrofluids . The experiment was 88% effective at removing the particles, and won the grand prize of $50,000 at this year's Google Science Fair. This fall, Ferreira will continue his studies at the University of Groningen's Stratingh Institute for Chemistry in the Netherlands. We can't wait to see what his future holds!You gotta see thisThe US-Mexico border has been the source of a lot of division and tragedy for quite some time. But thanks to two professors' ingenious creation, a small section of it is bringing joy to people on both sides. Ronald Rael, an architecture professor at the University of California - Berkeley, and Virginia San Fratello, an associate professor of design at San Jose State University, came up with the idea for these custom-built seesaws 10 years ago. This week, they were finally installed along a stretch of the border fence separating Sunland Park, New Mexico, and Ciudad Juárez, Mexico. In an Instagram post, Rael said the playground was "filled with joy, excitement, and togetherness at the borderwall," something I think we all can agree is much needed.Heroes among usHaiti has faced problems for decades, many of which are on full-display in Cité Soleil, a neighborhood near the country's capital plagued by gang violence, filth and tense protests. But in the children that live in these dire conditions, Daniel Tillias sees potential -- and a way to change the lives of all Haitians. Tillias runs a youth empowerment program based in the heart of Cité Soleil called SAKALA , which offers free after-school sports and academics, gardening, community development and conflict resolution programs for children. Today, the organization supports around 200 at-risk children, and Tillias hopes that this little oasis he has created can spread to the rest of the country. "We could really have a new country that becomes the model for the world. And we know that it can start here," he said.Wanna get awayThis week, we're not sending you on any specific exotic getaway. Instead, here's a love story we hope inspires you to take that trip you've been putting off. Back in 2015, Sean Kavanagh and Anna Gorga were two 20-somethings on globe-trotting adventures, when sheer luck brought them together on a flight from Portugal's Azores Islands to the country's capital, Lisbon. Sitting next to each other, they started to chat and felt chemistry right away. But when their plane landed, it was time to go their separate ways. The pair stayed in touch and started dating long-distance, before another stroke of good luck brought Gorga to Boston for work, where Kavanagh was also living. The rest is history. After the couple tied the knot in the US last year , they returned to where it all began -- the Azores -- to complete the celebrations. Moral of the story: Wherever you're dying to go, book that ticket. You never know who you might meet.Hear, hear!"I finally summoned up the courage to say 3 words that would change my life: 'I need help.' Thank you to all the selfless people who have helped me on my journey through sobriety. I am eternally grateful."Elton John, the legendary Grammy-winning singer and songwriter, , the legendary Grammy-winning singer and songwriter, who celebrated 29 years of sobriety earlier this weekImpact your worldParking tickets are a pretty reliable way to ruin someone's day. But if paying it meant feeding hundreds of cuddly kittens, wouldn't that make getting slapped with one a little easier to swallow? That's exactly what the Muncie Police Department in Indiana tried last month, when it let anyone with a $25 parking fine bring in $25 worth at cat food to erase their ticket . The promotion only lasted a few days, but it was a big help to a local animal shelter that was running low on supplies. And judging by the mountains of Fancy Feast people dropped off at the police station, people were slightly more enthusiastic about paying in cat food than, you know, forking over $25. "I don't know if the police department plans on doing this again, but we're incredibly grateful to them and the community," said Ashley Honeycutt, the shelter's office manager.Shameless animal videoThere's always time for cute animal videos. That time is now.