(CNN) When we envisioned The Good Stuff, we had a lot of talks about how to handle weeks when everything just seemed to be pretty terrible. Should we ignore all the negative things going on in the news and just enjoy a few minutes of pure positivity?The fact is, when bad news seems to be everywhere, that's exactly when good news is the most important. Everything you read here is as much a reality and a part of life as all of the painful, complicated, hard-to-stomach stories of the day. It's important to stay informed, but part of that is reminding yourself that there are wonderful people and wonderful things out there. It's a completely necessary part of a well-balanced news diet. So today, let's enjoy the feast.Our favorites this weekThe members of the Hall County Sheriff's Office in Georgia helped make the first day of school a little less painful for one of their own. Caden Dixon's father, Nicolas Blane Dixon, died last month in the line of duty. When the time came for Caden to start fourth grade at Enota Multiple Intelligences Academy in Gainesville, he was understandably having a hard time. That's when more than a dozen of his dad's colleagues showed up to escort Caden and his mother to class. The sheriff's office says its members have been actively comforting and supporting the Dixons because, well, that's what law enforcement families do. "He was having a rough morning because he didn't want to go to school without his dad being there," Sgt. Charles Hewell said in a statement. "Seeing his reaction when he saw us made everything worth it."Ducks ahoy!Imagine how confused all the real ducks were when 63,000 rubber ducks rained down this week into the Chicago River . The big duck dump was part of the city's 14th annual Ducky Derby, in which people purchase and race rubber ducks to win prizes and, of course, ultimate ducky bragging rights. There's a great cause behind the madness: Proceeds from the event benefit the Illinois Special Olympics. According to the Ducky Derby organization, last year's races raised more than $425,000. Plus, the whole thing makes for some really excellent photos.The kindness we all need right nowIt's human nature to search for ways to help in times of tragedy, and some kind souls have really stepped up after last week's mass shootings. Eleven-year-old Ruben Martinez is challenging each person in El Paso to do 22 good deeds , one for each victim of the shooting at a Walmart there. He and his mom say the #ElPasoChallenge can take any form you want: mowing someone's lawn, visiting a nursing home, paying for someone's coffee or just writing a letter to cheer someone up.Speaking of letters, a stranger in Dayton, Ohio, has been posting colorful, encouraging notes in the city's popular nightclub district, not far from where last week's shooting took place. Some of them are short notes of personal thanks to first responders, while others bear encouragements like, "You are braver than you think." "The world is full of good people," another one reads. "If you can't find one, be one. Rise by lifting others every day."Raise a glass to ...Alex Rendell, a Thai actor and conservationist who helped make an orphaned baby dugong a social media star . A dugong is a close relative of the pokey, pleasant manatee and a favorite animal of study for marine researchers. However, dugong populations are severely dwindling because they often get tangled in stray fishing equipment and are sometimes hunted for meat. Rendell recently spotted a little dugong on a boat trip with some students from his foundation, which teaches kids about conservation through camping. Rendell and his team named her Marium and spent days feeding and taking care of her in her natural habitat. Eventually, word of Marium, the dugong, got out, and photos of her went viral in Thailand. Now, Marium fans have raised thousands of dollars to contribute to her care and promote marine conservation awareness. Oh, you want a picture? Happy to oblige.A bright ideaIkea, a famous Swedish construction company and the Queen of Sweden are partnering to help provide comfortable living solutions for people living with dementia . That's a pretty hard-hitting trio, so we'll try to get to it all: Ikea and Skanska are working together to create affordable, modular housing with things like mirrorless bathrooms and old-fashioned knobs and fixtures on appliances, as well as therapeutic gardens and clubhouses for socializing. The idea is to accommodate older people with memory issues so they can still live independently instead of going to a nursing home. The name of the project is SilviaBo, after Queen Silvia of Sweden. Silvia's mother suffered from Alzheimer's, and she's been a partner in the project from the very beginning.You gotta see thisDoes anyone else remember those shark fruit snacks they had in the '90s, the ones that came with the glow-in-the-dark shark toys in the box? This is, like, the real life version! The cool green glow is caused by a reaction called biofluorescence , and scientists think the few species of sharks that have this ability use their personal light shows to identify each other, communicate and even fight off infection.Heroes among usA reported 27 million Nigerians live with disabilities. Many of them also live with serious stigma because of cultural and religious beliefs that disabilities are a result of witchcraft and supernatural activities. Crystal Chigbu, founder of the IREDE Project, is trying to break through that damaging outlook . Chigbu's daughter was born with a congenital defect and had to have her right leg amputated. When Chigbu started sharing her daughter's struggles and triumphs online, she realized there wasn't really a lot of open conversation about the challenges and opportunities of disability care. Her IREDE Foundation aims to educate Nigerians on limb loss and how to care for children living with limb loss. It also provides free and subsidized artificial limbs for children who can't afford them.Wanna get away?Quiz time: Can you name the Seven Wonders of the World (we're going by the new list that was decided on in 2007)? Here's one freebie, in the form of a positively picturesque view of Machu Picchu in Peru . These seven destinations are at the top of every travel buff's list, and CNN Travel has the lowdown on the best times to go and the best places to post up for those once-in-a-lifetime vacation pics. Scroll to the bottom of this newsletter for the whole list. Hey, we wouldn't leave you hanging!Tell us something goodPinson, Alabama -- Randa Ragland has been going through a tough time recently. Her husband lost his job, she got some bad news about her health and her 3-year-old son Jaxen, who has autism and is nonverbal, is battling stage 4 neuroblastoma. So she DEFINITELY did not need the nasty note from an anonymous neighbor that appeared in late July in her mailbox, asking her in extremely rude terms to clean up her yard. At the end of her rope, Ragland posted the note to Facebook, just to vent. It spread around, and a complete stranger put up a Facebook page in Jaxen's honor, asking for people to help tidy up the Raglands' yard. Within days, the lawn was mowed. A man with a chainsaw showed up to remove debris from the yard. Others picked up supplies for the family. Some pitched in to tidy up their home. "This is love," one volunteer said. "This is love for a stranger."Impact your worldWe love this photo of a pair of specially trained hospital dogs that were called in to assist first responders and medical staff caring for victims of the El Paso Walmart shooting. Here are some ways you can help the people and communities affected by last week's violence.Shameless animal video