If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) A new study confirms what most parents already know: Having kids makes you happier -- once they move out .Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. US militaryThe US military is not the primary force anymore in Asia, and it would struggle to defend its allies against the Chinese. This sobering assessment comes from a new report that claims missiles from China's rapidly improving military could overwhelm US bases in the region in a matter of hours. So, Japan, Australia and other US partners need to bolster their forces in the region, said the report from the United States Study Center at Australia's University of Sydney. A spokesperson for China's foreign ministry said the country's military policy is "defensive in nature." The Pentagon has not yet responded to CNN's request for comment.China on US Navy operation: We have missiles (January)China on US Navy operation: We have missiles (January) 03:03China on US Navy operation: We have missiles (January)2. President TrumpDid Google manipulate millions of votes in the 2016 election? No, but President Trump falsely claimed the tech giant did . In a tweet, Trump said Google "manipulated from 2.6 million to 16 million votes for Hillary Clinton" in the election. The President probably was referring to a Fox Business segment about psychologist Robert Epstein, who alleged in congressional testimony this summer that he found pro-Clinton bias in Google's search results. But there's no evidence that Google "manipulated" the results to favor Clinton. Google (and others) said Epstein's bias claim is wrong.JUST WATCHED See Clinton's biting response to Trump's new conspiracy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See Clinton's biting response to Trump's new conspiracy 03:273. Planned ParenthoodPlanned Parenthood will drop federal funding because it doesn't want to comply with a Trump administration rule barring it from talking to patients about abortion services. The organization's acting president said the rule is "unethical and dangerous" and that Planned Parenthood will continue to fight it in court. Critics argue the rule -- which prohibits taxpayer-funded family planning clinics from discussing abortion with patients or referring patients to abortion providers -- will affect low-income people, communities of color and uninsured and rural residents the most.JUST WATCHED Besides abortions, what does Planned Parenthood do? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Besides abortions, what does Planned Parenthood do? 01:104. Eric Garner deathThe officer found guilty in a disciplinary trial of putting Eric Garner in a choke hold moments before he died five years ago has been fired . Daniel Pantaleo will also not receive his pension. Garner died in 2014 as police tried to arrest him for illegally selling cigarettes. In video of the arrest, Pantaleo is seen putting Garner in a department-banned chokehold. Garner can be heard saying, "I can't breathe." Garner's death, weeks before the death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, fueled a push for police accountability and brought the Black Lives Matter movement to the forefront.JUST WATCHED NYPD Commissioner: Garner's death must have a consequence Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NYPD Commissioner: Garner's death must have a consequence 01:465. Canary IslandsMore than 9,000 people have been evacuated as a wildfire rages in the Canary Islands. The blaze, which started over the weekend, has already torched almost 25,000 acres on the Spanish islands, located off the northwest coast of Africa. It's the second major wildfire there this month, after a blaze at the beginning of August forced the evacuation of 1,000 people. The Canary Islands are a popular vacation destination.BREAKFAST BROWSEEnd of the 'Road'The record-setting reign of "Old Town Road" atop Billboard's Hot 100 chart is over . Billie Eilish's "Bad Guy" is now the No. 1 song in all the land.JUST WATCHED 'Old Town Road' sets new chart record Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Old Town Road' sets new chart record 01:32Off the market"The Rock" is now a married man. He tied the knot with longtime girlfriend Lauren Hashian over the weekend in Hawaii.Girl powerMaddy Freking's team may be out of the Little League Baseball World Series, but the 12-year-old pitcher inspired little girls everywhere during their run.Whole hogWhat do you do when you're 12 years old and raised $15,000 off a pig during an auction at the county fair? Give it all to St. Jude kids' hospital, of course.TODAY'S NUMBER$1.32 millionTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe storms threaten the Midwest while heat persists down South Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe storms threaten the Midwest while heat persists down South 01:37AND FINALLYSweet sounds