In the storm's path with a weak phone connection? Get the text-only version of top stories hereWest Palm Beach, Florida (CNN) Hurricane Dorian became an "extremely dangerous" Category 4 hurricane late Friday, according to the National Hurricane Center.The center's latest alert is based on reports from hurricane hunter aircraft flown by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.#Dorian has strengthened to an extremely dangerous category 4 hurricane. For details go to: https://t.co/PVkIJ0K5OcDorian's maximum sustained wind speeds have increased to 140 mph. The storm's status means it's considered a "major" hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Wind Scale, capable of causing "catastrophic damage" to homes, uprooting trees, downing power lines and rendering areas uninhabitable for weeks or months.All of Florida is under a state of emergency and authorities are urging residents to stockpile a week's worth of food and supplies, with the governor warning that the storm could be a "multi-day" event."It's going to impact the entirety of Florida, and residents need to be prepared," Acting Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Pete Gaynor said Friday morning on CNN."The clock is ticking right now," he added. "Don't waste time. Prepare yourself and your family."The core of the storm is due to move over the Atlantic, north of the southeastern and central Bahamas Friday night and Saturday, be near or over the northwestern Bahamas Sunday and be near Florida's east coast late Monday, according to the hurricane center. Dorian is expected to strengthen overnight into Saturday."Although fluctuations in intensity are possible early next week, Dorian is expected to remain a powerful hurricane during the next few days," the hurricane center's alert read.President Donald Trump said he will attend a briefing Sunday at FEMA headquarters in Washington at 12:30 p.m. ET. He said the briefing will be roughly 24 hours before storm is expected to hit, and they will likely make decisions about whether to evacuate parts of Florida then.Trump said in a video posted to Twitter that Dorian looks like it "can be an absolute monster.""We're ready, we have the best people in the world ready," he said in the video. "All indications are it's going to hit very hard and it's going to be very big. Somebody said bigger, or at least as big, as (Hurricane) Andrew."New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo released a statement Friday saying he was sending an Incident Management Team of 26 personnel to Florida. The team will leave for Tallahassee Sunday, Cuomo said, and state police are ready "to be packed into trucks" if needed."We will continue to monitor the situation closely and will do everything we can to help during these difficult times. To our friends and neighbors in Florida: stay safe," according to his statement.The storm is 'extremely dangerous,' hurricane center saysDorian is due to slow its forward speed in the coming days, allowing it to gain intensity over warm Caribbean waters and fuel the heavy rains, damaging wind and storm surge it's expected to deliver, CNN meteorologist Derek Van Dam said.A hurricane warning has been issued for the northwestern Bahamas — except for Andros Island, where a hurricane watch remains in effect — where Dorian is expected to hit Sunday, the hurricane center said. A hurricane warning means hurricane conditions are expected, whereas a watch means hurricane conditions are possible.In the meantime, Dorian is expected to "remain an extremely dangerous major hurricane," the center said , with potentially "life-threatening storm surge" as high as 10 to 15 feet above normal tide levels.It is then forecast to roar toward the US mainland Monday evening into Tuesday morning, though experts warn that forecasts are subject to change.Regardless, residents across the state should be prepared, CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar said. "We've been saying 'all of Florida' for a reason."As of Friday afternoon, the storm's track indicated a landfall could occur somewhere in the southern half of Florida, Chinchar said."But that could change," she warned, "as well as the landfall time, which right now is still looking at late Monday night into early Tuesday morning."Another question is when the storm will deviate from its current northwest track and shift north, Chinchar said. That shift in direction could indicate what kind of impact, if any, will be seen along Florida's west coast and in the Panhandle."There's still a lot of questions there, but the fact remains — the potential is still there," Chinchar said. "So, you need to plan accordingly."Florida residents are stocking upFlorida Gov. Ron DeSantis said Friday that President Trump had approved a federal emergency declaration for his state. The governor had previously declared a state of emergency for all 67 Florida counties.The state has 819,000 gallons of water and 1.8 million meals ready for distribution, DeSantis said Friday."It is imperative that all Floridians and their families take Hurricane Dorian seriously," DeSantis said. "The time to prepare diminishes by the hour, particularly because we are still uncertain of where it will make landfall. Everyone should have seven days of food, water and medicine in preparation for this storm. Additionally, all residents need to be prepared to evacuate, should that be required."DeSantis said the Florida Department of Transportation will lift tolls to affected areas once a local evacuation is ordered. Uber has committed to providing rides to shelters when they begin opening, he said.More than 30 school districts have announced Tuesday closures. The Florida Department of Education will be posting updated information regarding school closures on its websiteAdditionally, more than 30 colleges/universities — including Florida State University and Florida A&M University — have announced closures to their satellite, regional or main campuses.Florida's Highway Patrol will begin escorting fuel trucks to boost the volume that can be brought into the state, DeSantis said Friday. Service and truck rates for fuel trucks also have been waived.Deborah Thomas was in tears Friday morning as she worried about how her animals would survive the storm.About 2,000 National Guard troops will be mobilized Friday, Maj. Gen. James Eifert said in a news conference. That number could double by the end of Saturday, he said."We're prepared to respond," Eifert said. "We have 12,000 soldiers and airmen in the state and every one of them that is able and in the state, not deployed, will be ready to step up as needed."Florida residents have been stocking up on gas and food for a stormy weekend, and officials are urging everyone to be prepared."Get water, get gas, get cash out of the ATMs," said West Palm Beach Mayor Keith James. "The more we hear about this storm, it sounds like a serious one."Deborah Thomas, 69, was preparing for the storm Friday at a Home Depot in West Palm Beach when she broke down in tears with worry over how her dog and her pigs would survive the storm."I live in a mobile home, so I stand to be homeless," she told CNN. "But that is not what worries me. I have animals. I can replace my home, but I can't replace my animals."Thomas plans to hole up with her dog at her daughter's home, where they've stocked plenty of water, she told CNN. Even if evacuation orders come down, Thomas doesn't plan to leave, she said, even though Dorian has her mind on Hurricane Andrew in 1992, which left Homestead, Florida, looking like an atomic bomb had gone off.With Dorian scheduled to arrive in time for Labor Day, major airlines have offered waivers for flights to Florida, Georgia and the Caribbean. Officials with the Greater Orlando Aviation Authority announced that Orlando International Airport would cease operations Monday at 2 a.m.Tourist areas were emptying out Thursday, CNN affiliate WFLA reported."We usually get hundreds of visitors every day, and it's just been one of those days that drives everyone away. It's a gorgeous day but the hurricane is just going to kill it all," Jason Pun, owner of a Cocoa Beach restaurant, told the station.Big storm, big responseDorian warrants a multibillion-dollar price tag, FEMA associate administrator Jeffrey Byard told reporters Thursday."This is going to be a big storm. We're prepared for a big response," he said.Since Dorian had minimal impact on Puerto Rico, the agency is shifting staff from the island to Florida in preparation.Photos: Hurricane Dorian A body is carried out of the Mudd neighborhood in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on Monday, September 9. Hide Caption 1 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Homes are in ruins one week after Dorian hit Marsh Harbour. Hide Caption 2 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A photo album is seen amid the debris in Marsh Harbour on Sunday, September 8. Hide Caption 3 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A damaged home in Hope Town, Bahamas. Hide Caption 4 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A toppled building crane is draped over a new construction project in Halifax, Nova Scotia, on September 9. Hide Caption 5 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Bodies are loaded onto a plane in Marsh Harbour on Saturday, September 7. Hide Caption 6 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This aerial photo, taken on September 7, shows damage at the South Riding Point oil-storage facility in the Bahamas. Hide Caption 7 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boxes of food are loaded onto trucks in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 7. Hide Caption 8 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People reach out for beverages as they await evacuation in Marsh Harbour. Hide Caption 9 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Evacuees from the Bahamas rest on a Royal Caribbean cruise ship after it arrived in Freeport on September 7. The ship delivered thousands of meals and cases of bottled water. Hide Caption 10 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People wait to leave Marsh Harbour on September 7. Hide Caption 11 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Waves crash into boats in Halifax, Nova Scotia, as Hurricane Dorian approached on September 7. Hide Caption 12 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man looks a tree that fell in Moncton, New Brunswick, on September 7. Hide Caption 13 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man surveys damage at the Boardwalk RV Park in Emerald Isle, North Carolina, on Friday, September 6. Hide Caption 14 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Bryan Philips walks with his dog on a flooded road in Salvo, North Carolina, on September 6. Hide Caption 15 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Evacuees wait to leave Marsh Harbour in the Bahamas. Hide Caption 16 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A fallen tree lies on top of a vehicle in Isle of Palms, South Carolina, on September 6. Hide Caption 17 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Schemelda Saintilien walks past debris and damaged houses on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island. Hide Caption 18 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Police Officer Curtis Resor, left, and Sgt. Michael Stephens check a sailboat for occupants in Beaufort, North Carolina, on September 6. Hide Caption 19 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Homes flattened by Hurricane Dorian are seen on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on Thursday, September 5. Hide Caption 20 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Rescue workers recover a body in Marsh Harbour on September 5. Hide Caption 21 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Two men stand amid the destruction in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 5. Hide Caption 22 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A woman from the Bahamas speaks on a cell phone after evacuating on September 5. Hide Caption 23 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A woman battles rain and wind in Charleston, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 24 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Utility crews work on restoring power in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 25 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Rescue workers walk through floodwaters in Little River, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 26 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers try to restore power after a tornado hit Emerald Isle, North Carolina, on September 5. Several tornadoes were reported in the Carolinas. Hide Caption 27 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Emerald Isle employees work to clear a road after a tornado hit. Hide Caption 28 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian An aerial view of Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 5. Hide Caption 29 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian An evacuee rides in a Coast Guard helicopter after being rescued from Treasure Cay, Bahamas, on Wednesday, September 4. Hide Caption 30 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boats are piled up on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on September 4. Hide Caption 31 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Roshane Eyma cries as she is greeted by members of her church on September 4. She had been rescued and flown to Nassau, Bahamas. Hide Caption 32 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Marsh Harbour is seen from above on September 4. Hide Caption 33 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Houses destroyed by Hurricane Dorian are seen on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on September 4. Hide Caption 34 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A resident recovers dishes from his son's home in Pine Bay, Bahamas, on September 4. Hide Caption 35 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian An aerial view of damage on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island. Hide Caption 36 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A child walks past clothes laid out to dry in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 4. Hide Caption 37 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A broken plane rests on the side of a road in Freeport. Hide Caption 38 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Debris litters the Grand Bahama International Airport on September 4. Hide Caption 39 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Volunteers receive relief supplies at the New Providence Community Center in Nassau. Hide Caption 40 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boats, docks and houses are destroyed on the island of Great Abaco. Hide Caption 41 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Braden Vick, right, and Scott Ray run along The Battery in Charleston, South Carolina, on September 4. Hide Caption 42 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Bob Quarles boards up his beach house in Oak Island, North Carolina, on September 4. Hide Caption 43 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A house is surrounded by floodwaters on Grand Bahama island. Hide Caption 44 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Debbie Pagan checks her raised furniture one last time before she and her husband evacuated their home in Tybee Island, Georgia, on September 4. Hide Caption 45 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Mailboxes are taped shut in Charleston on September 4. Hide Caption 46 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This aerial image shows damage on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on Tuesday, September 3. Hide Caption 47 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A family is escorted to a safe zone after being rescued in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 3. Hide Caption 48 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Julia Aylen carries her dog as she wades through waist-deep water near her home in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 49 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Damaged homes are seen in this aerial photograph from the Bahamas on September 3. Hide Caption 50 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Volunteers walk down a flooded road as they work to rescue families near the Casuarina Bridge in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 51 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A car is submerged in Freeport floodwaters on September 3. Hide Caption 52 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Residents wade through a flooded street in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 53 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Eddie Wright and his dog, Vino, wait on a bus to evacuate Brunswick, Georgia. Hide Caption 54 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A house is flooded in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 55 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People gather donations at the Christ Episcopal Church in Miami. Hide Caption 56 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boats are piled up at a Bahamian port on Monday, September 2. Hide Caption 57 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man walks through the rubble left by Hurricane Dorian in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 2. Hide Caption 58 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This September 2 photo provided by NASA shows the eye of Hurricane Dorian as seen from the International Space Station. Hide Caption 59 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Evacuation traffic is seen near South Carolina's coast on September 2. Hide Caption 60 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian US Coast Guard helicopter crews have been helping with search-and-rescue efforts in the Bahamas. Hide Caption 61 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man crosses a street during a downpour in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 62 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This aerial photo shows Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 2. Hide Caption 63 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Agency officials brief Bahamian Prime Minister Hubert Minnis and his cabinet members on September 2. Minnis said many homes, businesses and other buildings have been destroyed or heavily damaged. He called the devastation "unprecedented and extensive." Hide Caption 64 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Businesses are shuttered near Jetty Park in Fort Pierce, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 65 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A boy stands near high surf in Vero Beach, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 66 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This view of the storm was taken from the International Space Station on September 2. Hide Caption 67 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Dorian left heavy damage at this resort in Hope Town, Bahamas. Hide Caption 68 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Waves caused by Dorian crash into a man at the Jupiter Beach Park in Florida on September 2. Hide Caption 69 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Strong winds blow the tops of trees and brush in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 2. Hide Caption 70 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A passenger looks at the flight board at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on September 2. The airport canceled flights and closed because of winds caused by Dorian. Hide Caption 71 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People watch the waves crash onto Vero Beach, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 72 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Clouds loom over a lifeguard tower in Fort Lauderdale on September 2. Hide Caption 73 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Beachgoers watch a man ride a kiteboard in Indialantic, Florida, on Sunday, September 1. Hide Caption 74 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Palm trees blow in strong winds prior to Dorian's landfall in Freeport. Hide Caption 75 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A view outside a car's windshield before Dorian hit Freeport on September 1. Hide Caption 76 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Riverside Mobile Home Park residents Joe Lewis, left, and Rob Chambers work to secure an air conditioner before evacuating the park in Jensen Beach, Florida. Hide Caption 77 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man places a shutter in a window in Lake Worth, Florida. Hide Caption 78 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Passengers arrive at Orlando International Airport on Saturday, August 31. Hide Caption 79 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers install storm shutters in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas. Hide Caption 80 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian NASA employees watch as the Artemis launch tower is rolled back inside a building at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida. Hide Caption 81 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Matt Rohrer loads sandbags in the back of his vehicle in Flagler Beach, Florida, on Friday, August 30. Hide Caption 82 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers at Flamingo Gardens in Davie, Florida, move an Allosaurus statue on August 30. Hide Caption 83 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Shoppers wait in line before sunrise for a Sam's Club store to open in Kissimmee, Florida. Hide Caption 84 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A supervised work crew of female jail prisoners fills sandbags in Titusville, Florida, on Thursday, August 29. Hide Caption 85 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian "Here's a look at #HurricaneDorian from @Space_Station," said astronaut Andrew Morgan, who posted this photo to Twitter. "I caught this shot (August 29) as it traveled across the Caribbean north of Haiti and the Dominican Republic." Hide Caption 86 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Shoppers wait in long lines at a Costco in Davie, Florida, on August 29. Hide Caption 87 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man fills containers with gasoline in Hialeah, Florida, on August 29. Hide Caption 88 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man rides a bike by a Miami Beach building with boarded-up windows on August 29. Hide Caption 89 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Dozens of Orange County residents fill sandbags at Blanchard Park in Orlando on Wednesday, August 28. Hide Caption 90 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Empty shelves at a supermarket in Patillas, Puerto Rico, on August 28. Hide Caption 91 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People stock up with groceries and water in Fort Lauderdale. Hide Caption 92 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Ya Mary Morales and Henry Sustache put plywood over the windows of their home in Yabucoa, Puerto Rico, on August 28. Puerto Rico was ultimately spared the brunt of hurricane-force winds. Hide Caption 93 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers prepare a store's exterior in Humacao, Puerto Rico, on August 28. Hide Caption 94 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Cars line up for fuel at a gas station in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico, on Tuesday, August 27. Hide Caption 95 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Men board up a shop's windows in Boqueron, Puerto Rico, on August 27. Hide Caption 96 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Municipal employees clear debris in Ponce, Puerto Rico, on August 27. Hide Caption 97 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Residents board up a storefront pharmacy in Bridgetown, Barbados, on Monday, August 26. Hide Caption 98 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Residents stand in line at a grocery store in Bridgetown on August 26. Hide Caption 99 of 99Dorian already has claimed the title of strongest storm so far of this year's Atlantic hurricane season.If it reaches Florida, this will be the fourth year in a row a hurricane of any strength has hit the state. That would be the most years in a row since the 1940s.Dorian is on track to be the strongest hurricane to strike Florida's east coast since Hurricane Andrew in 1992, CNN meteorologist Brandon Miller said.Military and NASA make adjustmentsTo avoid damage from Dorian, the US Navy is moving more than 40 planes from Jacksonville to bases in Michigan, Ohio and Texas.The US Air Force is evacuating 16 aircraft from MacDill Air Force Base near Tampa to McConnell Air Force Base near Wichita, Kansas, an Air Force official said.Florida State University had been scheduled to play its season-opening game off campus, in Jacksonville near the Atlantic coast. Because of Dorian, the game has been moved farther inland to FSU's normal home field in Tallahassee