(CNN) The victims and families affected by the Florida high school shooting have great needs right now. Here's how you can help them. And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Florida high school shootingAs the gunshots rang out on that awful afternoon, heroes stepped up at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Like the football coach who died after he threw himself in front of students to shield them from the hail of bullets. Or the teacher killed as he tried to get students back into his classroom. Or the ROTC students who used Kevlar sheets to help protect their classmates. It's those stories that people most want to talk about as the entire nation tries to come to grips with this latest school shooting , which left 17 people dead. (You can read more about the victims here .)We've also learned a bit more about the frantic police search for the person police say is behind all this carnage -- and how some students texted messages of love and fear as a shooter stalked their campus. Nikolas Cruz, a former student at the school, confessed to being the gunman, according to a probable cause affidavit. He was charged with 17 counts of premeditated murder. He'd put a lot of menacing posts on social media -- including one he may have signed with his own name -- so we're all now wondering why signs that he might be capable of such violence were missed.President Trump addressed the nation , stressing the need to address mental health issues in America and urging children to seek help if they feel lost or alone. But lots of people -- including children and desperate, grieving parents and even late-night stars -- want Washington to do something -- anything -- about guns (a word Trump didn't mention in his speech).2. ImmigrationJUST WATCHED Dreamer twins may be deployed or deported Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dreamer twins may be deployed or deported 03:473. Russia investigationFormer Trump campaign adviser Rick Gates is finalizing a plea deal with special counsel Robert Mueller's office, indicating he's poised to cooperate in the investigation, according to sources familiar with the case. Gates has already spoken to Mueller's team about his case and has been in plea negotiations for about a month.He's had what criminal lawyers call a "Queen for a Day" interview, in which a defendant answers any questions from the prosecutors' team, including about his own case and other potential criminal activity he witnessed. Gates' cooperation could be another building block for Mueller in a possible case against President Donald Trump or key members of his team.JUST WATCHED Sources: Rick Gates close to plea deal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sources: Rick Gates close to plea deal 01:524. South AfricaSay hello to Cyril Ramaphosa, South Africa's new President. He was confirmed just hours after former President Jacob Zuma stepped down. Ramaphosa pledged to be a "servant of our people." He's spoken out against corruption, noteworthy because it was years of corruption-related scandals that drove Zuma from office. Ramaphosa was a trade union leader during the days of apartheid and was the chief negotiator for Nelson Mandela, who thought so much of Ramaphosa that he wanted him to succeed him when his historic presidency ended.JUST WATCHED Ramaphosa elected as South Africa's President Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ramaphosa elected as South Africa's President 01:225. Flu vaccineGot the flu shot but still got sick? You're not alone. The CDC says this year's flu vaccine has only been about 36% effective. But it's still a good idea to get the shot, the agency says, because if you do get sick, it's likely to be less severe and not last as long. This has been a particularly difficult flu season, especially for children. Sixty-three children in the US have died from the flu; three-quarters of them had not been vaccinated.JUST WATCHED 4 ways the flu turns deadly Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 4 ways the flu turns deadly 01:39WINTER OLYMPICSMEDAL MISS: Mikaela Shiffrin Mikaela Shiffrin missed out on adding to her medal haul when she finished fourth in the slalom.JUST WATCHED Mikaela Shiffrin: I'm chasing the world Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mikaela Shiffrin: I'm chasing the world 01:23SUPER SKATER: South Korea's Yun Sung-bin South Korea's Yun Sung-bin clinched his nation's second gold medal of these Games with his triumph in men's skeleton.FIGURE SKATING: American figure skater Nathan Chen had a disappointing outing in the men's short program, while defending Olympic champion Yuzuru Hanyu of Japan wowed the crowd with his performance.JUST WATCHED Nathan Chen describes the feeling of landing a quad Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Nathan Chen describes the feeling of landing a quad 01:10BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.I dos and I don'tsThanks a lot, young'unReady to feel really old? Watch this 17-year-old Olympic gold medalist fail to recognize any of these classic '90s tunes.Meal makeoverMcDonald's is yanking cheeseburgers out of Happy Meals to make them healthier -- but leaving in Chicken McNuggets? How does that help?JUST WATCHED McDonald's to reduce calories in Happy Meals Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH McDonald's to reduce calories in Happy Meals 01:01Catch some airWhat will passenger plane travel be like in 2068 ? We could be flying all electric, and there may not be a pilot.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHFinally ... 'Black Panther'!!The much-anticipated superhero film opens today in theaters across the country.JUST WATCHED 'Black Panther' to make a huge cultural impact Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Black Panther' to make a huge cultural impact 02:04AND FINALLY ...Picture perfect