(CNN) It's not too late to put together that romantic Valentine's Day trip. Here are 12 lavish options . And here's what else you need to know to to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Government shutdownWhile you were sleeping, the federal government shut down again -- but it's on its way back. Let us explain. Everyone thought the $300 billion budget deal announced this week had solved the looming shutdown problem. But then Sen. Rand Paul stood up and complained about all that massive spending. And he talked for so long that he prevented the deal from passing by Thursday's midnight deadline, triggering the shutdown (the second one in less than a month). But then, the Senate quickly OK'd the plan, and the House approved it at about 5:30 ET this morning. So, this quickie little shutdown will be over as soon as President Trump signs the bill.2. White HouseThe White House is in full-blown damage-control mode as it deals with the scandal surrounding ex-staffer Rob Porter. Chief of staff John Kelly sent out a memo last night to White House staffers, saying that "we all take matters of domestic violence seriously." But a lot of people are questioning if that's really true because Kelly reportedly knew for months about the domestic violence allegations made against Porter by his two ex-wives , yet kept him around anyway . Is Kelly's job on the line? Not likely, sources tell CNN, because the White House doesn't exactly have a list of replacements handy right now.3. South KoreaThe good Olympic vibes on the Korean Peninsula may yield a new breakthrough in relations between the North and South. There's reportedly a "good chance" Kim Yo Jong , the sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, will invite South Korean President Moon Jae-in to visit the North. The invitation could come at a welcome luncheon on Saturday. And Moon could make the trip to the North "sometime this year." If it happens, it would be the first time a South Korean President stepped foot in North Korea in a decade.JUST WATCHED Kim Jong Un's sister arrives in South Korea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kim Jong Un's sister arrives in South Korea 01:054. SyriaJUST WATCHED CNN goes on patrol with US soldiers in Syria Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN goes on patrol with US soldiers in Syria 03:295. ImmigrationThe Trump administration is looking at new rules that would make it harder for immigrants to get into the US or get green cards if they use certain public benefits, like Medicaid or Head Start. The plan, contained in a draft obtained by CNN, could lead to substantially higher numbers of immigrants being blocked from staying in America. A Homeland Security spokesman wouldn't confirm the plan, saying only that the administration is concerned about saving taxpayer dollars. The proposal would still need to go through a formal comment period before it could be implemented.JUST WATCHED Sen. Graham: We don't need $25B for a wall Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sen. Graham: We don't need $25B for a wall 01:22WINTER OLYMPICSOPENING CEREMONY: About 35,000 fans will fill the Olympic stadium as the About 35,000 fans will fill the Olympic stadium as the torch is lit this morning on the 23rd Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. The moment everyone's waiting for will be the entrance of the North and South Korean teams, marching under the Korean Unification Flag.SPORTING ACTION: No gold medals can be won today, but American Nathan Chen, a favorite to claim gold in the men's individual No gold medals can be won today, but American Nathan Chen, a favorite to claim gold in the men's individual figure skating competition , takes to the ice. There's also the opening round of mixed doubles curling and the qualification rounds of the men's and women's moguls in freestyle skiing.JUST WATCHED The Koreas: Divided by war, united by a flag? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The Koreas: Divided by war, united by a flag? 03:31NUMBER OF THE DAY1,033JUST WATCHED Dow plunges 1,000 points, sinks into correction Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dow plunges 1,000 points, sinks into correction 01:29BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Not quite 'Armageddon'Games people playSome of the more obscure Winter Olympic sports get underway today. Be an expert in them in less than five minutes. Guaranteed!What a dealThe San Francisco 49ers just signed Jimmy Garoppolo to the biggest deal in NFL history , and the rest of the league's QBs are on the phone with their agents.Ginger timeWe're getting new emojis this year, including a partying face and a "cold" face, but the buzz is all about the one for redheads.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHThe podcast we're listening to next ...QUOTE OF THE DAY'These men think they are untouchable, but times are changing.'Kate Upton, opening up about her Model, opening up about her harassment allegations against Guess co-founder Paul MarcianoQUIZ TIMEActor John Mahoney, who died this week at 77 , was best known for his role in what show?A. "That '70s Show"B. "Frasier"C. "I Love Lucy"D. "The Twilight Zone"AND FINALLYThe walking LEGOsLEGOs and zombies? Sounds like a perfect way to kick off the weekend. (Click to view.)