(CNN) Colombia used to be Latin America's economic star. Now its list of challenges grows longer because of a refugee crisis from Venezuela. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Florida shootingTeachers and staff at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High go back to the school today , more than a week after the massacre there killed 17 people and reignited the national debate on guns. And everyone's reeling over the news that the armed deputy stationed on the Parkland, Florida, campus didn't immediately go in the building while a gunman killed students and staff inside. School resource officer Scot Peterson stayed outside for four minutes during the six-minute shooting spree, authorities said. Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel said the revelation makes him "sick to my stomach" because Peterson could have stopped the shooter.2. Russia and SyriaDid a Russian oligarch get a green light from Moscow for a mercenary attack on the United States and allied forces in Syria? That's the question being asked after Yevgeny Prigozhin -- an associate of Vladimir Putin's who was in charge of the mercenaries -- reportedly was "in close touch" before the attack with Russian and Syrian officials. No coalition or US personnel were killed in the attack. The Washington Post reported that Prigozhin had permission from a Russian minister for a "fast and strong" initiative. The attack led to retaliatory US airstrikes this month in northern Syria.And don't forget that Prigozhin was one of the 13 Russians special counsel Robert Mueller indicted last week in the investigation of Russian meddling into the 2016 US election.JUST WATCHED Tracking Putin's shadow army Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tracking Putin's shadow army 03:083. Missouri governor indicted2018's off to a rough start for Missouri's governor. In January Eric Greitens admitted to having an extramarital affair. Now he's been indicted on charges related to it. Greitens was charged with first-degree felony invasion of privacy. The governor is accused of trying to blackmail (via nude pictures that he allegedly took) the woman he had the affair with to keep her quiet. Greitens denies the allegations.Nude pictures are also a part of the investigation into Nashville Mayor Megan Barry's affair with her former security chief. Investigators found nude photos of a woman on security chief Rob Forrest's work phone, taken at a time when he should have been guarding Barry during business trips to Washington. Forrest could be charged with official misconduct and theft of property, investigators say. It's not confirmed if the woman in the photos is the mayor.JUST WATCHED Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens indicted Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens indicted 02:294. Oxfam scandalHaiti is suspending Oxfam from working in the country after some of its employees were accused of having sex with prostitutes there. The suspension will last two months while Haiti reviews how Oxfam handled the allegations that staff members paid for sex after the UK charity set up shop there after the 2010 earthquake. The scandal has jeopardized millions in funding Oxfam gets from the UK government.JUST WATCHED Oxfam deputy chief resigns over sex scandal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Oxfam deputy chief resigns over sex scandal 00:535. Net neutralityNet neutrality officially ends in April. An order in the Federal Register says the Federal Communications Commission's repeal of the Obama-era rules, intended to keep the internet open and fair, take effect on April 23 . The telecom industry cheered the move; the tech industry and consumer advocacy groups hated it. But the battle isn't over yet. The publication of the net neutrality order is expected to trigger a wave of legal challenges and congressional attempts to undo the FCC's repeal.JUST WATCHED Net gain or loss? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Net gain or loss? 05:57QUOTE OF THE DAY"I don't know what some of you expect us to do."Heather Nauert, State Department spokeswoman struggling to describe specific steps the State Department and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson are taking to stop the violence in Syria.WINTER OLYMPICSAlina Zagitova won the gold medal in women's ice skating, making her the first Russian to win a gold at these Games.The Olympic Athletes of Russia will have another shot at gold Sunday, because the OAR hockey team beat the Czech Republic 3-0 to make it to the finals.And Ivanka Trump arrived in South Korea today, where she'll watch the closing ceremony and work on diplomatic relations with Seoul.Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 Alina Zagitova performs her free skate. The 15-year-old edged out fellow Russian Evgenia Medvedeva to win the gold in ladies' figure skating. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 Medvedeva received the same score as Zagitova on their free skate. But in the end, Zagitova finished with the gold because of her superior short program on Wednesday. Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 Germany's Felix Schutz checks Canada's Maxim Noreau into the boards during the first period of their semifinal game. Germany won 4-3. Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 The South Korean women's curling team celebrate after defeating Japan to advance to the final. Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 Japan's Yurika Yoshida, left, and Chinami Yoshida brush the ice during the match against South Korea. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 Dutch speedskater Kjeld Nuis, left, races next to Finland's Mika Poutala in the 1,000 meters. Nuis won the gold, his second of the Games. Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 British curler Eve Muirhead competes against Sweden in the semifinals of women's curling. Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 Two spectators dressed as vikings watch the 1,000-meter speedskating race. Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 Russia's Sergei Andronov, left, collides with Jakub Nakladal of the Czech Republic during a semifinal hockey game. The Russian athletes won 3-0 to advance to the final. Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 The Swiss men's curling team celebrates after winning the bronze-medal game against Canada. Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 Italian speedskater Mirko Giacomo Nenzi competes in the 1,000 meters. Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 A spectator gets into the spirit of the Games during the 1,000-meter speedskating event. Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 From left, Canadians Brittany Phelan and Kelsey Serwa celebrate on the podium with Switzerland's Fanny Smith. Serwa had just won gold in the ski cross. Phelan won the silver, and Smith finished with the bronze. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 Phelan, left, and Serwa compete in the ski cross final. Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 Phelan leads a quarterfinal race as Italy's Debora Pixner crashes. Hide Caption 15 of 16 Photos: Winter Olympics: Friday, February 23 A US team starts a training run for the four-man bobsled. Hide Caption 16 of 16BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Tough tweetKylie Jenner badmouths Snapchat's new design, and just like that the Kylie Jenner badmouths Snapchat's new design, and just like that the social media app lost $1.3 billion in market value. Who knew Kim Kardashian's little sister was so powerful?Malicious menuNew York University apologized -- and fired some folks -- after it offered a Black History Month menu that included New York University apologized -- and fired some folks -- after it offered a Black History Month menu that included red Kool-Aid and watermelon water in a dining hall.Nice to meet you, tooIt's nice when the stars act just like us, such as Tiffany Haddish's adorable freakout when It's nice when the stars act just like us, such as Tiffany Haddish's adorable freakout when Oprah Winfrey surprised her on Ellen DeGeneres' show.All hail the queenOld videos of Beyoncé as a girl will be auctioned off and, yeah, that seems kind of crazy, but this is Queen Bey that we're talking about.JUST WATCHED Videos of young Beyoncé to be sold at auction Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Videos of young Beyoncé to be sold at auction 00:58WHAT'S FOR LUNCH?JUST WATCHED Trump has new ideas for guns in schools Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump has new ideas for guns in schools 02:21TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeWhich body part was stolen from the 2,000-year-old terracotta warrior at the Philadelphia's Franklin Institute?A) the noseB) the thumbC) the legD) the hairPlay Total Recall , CNN's weekly news quiz, and see if you got it right.THIS JUST IN ...Get fitThe world's biggest fitness competition has begun. This weekend an estimated 500,000 athletes all over the globe will take part in the CrossFit Open. It's a five-week fitness competition designed and tested in a secret gym, where CNN was given exclusive behind-the-scenes access.NUMBER OF THE DAY54%That's how much shares of Rovio, maker of the "Angry Birds" games, have plummeted since its initial public offering in October.AND FINALLY ...Cat meets snow