(CNN) President Trump is in Vietnam, but Melania Trump stayed behind in China, where she talked to CNN about her first year as first lady . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Roy MooreRoy Moore's Senate candidacy was already a controversial one for the GOP; now it's a full-blown problem. Moore, the Republican nominee in a December 12 special election in Alabama, is accused of sexual misconduct with underage girls in allegations that go back more than three decades. Moore denied the allegations and blasted The Washington Post , which published the bombshell report, calling the story "a desperate political attack."2. Russia investigationPresident Donald Trump's long-time confidant Keith Schiller privately testified that he rejected a Russian offer to send five women to then-private citizen Trump's hotel room during their 2013 trip to Moscow for the Miss Universe pageant, according to multiple sources from both political parties with direct knowledge of the testimony.Members of the House intelligence committee raised the matter because of salacious allegations laid out in a dossier compiled by former British agent Christopher Steele, an opposition research document funded by Democrats detailing alleged ties between Trump and his associates with Russians.JUST WATCHED Ex-Trump security chief says he rejected Russian offer of women for Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ex-Trump security chief says he rejected Russian offer of women for Trump 03:29Meanwhile, White House senior policy adviser Stephen Miller has been interviewed as part of special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia probe, according to sources familiar with the investigation. The interview brings the special counsel investigation into Trump's inner circle in the White House. Miller is the highest-level aide still working at the White House known to have talked to investigators.JUST WATCHED Mueller interviews top WH aide Stephen Miller Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mueller interviews top WH aide Stephen Miller 00:553. Trump in AsiaPresident Trump dusted off his "America First" speech and took it to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Vietnam. The President issued a strong rebuke of trade practices that he feels harm American workers. But, like he did yesterday in China, Trump said he didn't blame business leaders in the Pacific Rim -- he blamed his predecessors. He said the US wasn't going to be "taken advantage of" anymore.JUST WATCHED Trump: US has not been treated fairly by WTO Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: US has not been treated fairly by WTO 01:184. Tax overhaulAfter watching the House kick around various tax overhaul proposals for a week, the Senate's decided to join in on the fun. Senate Republicans unveiled their proposal , which differs significantly from the House plan : seven tax brackets (compared with four in the House plan), no curbing of the mortgage interest deduction, a full repeal of the state and local tax deduction, a big cut to the corporate tax rate (but not right away).This sets up a dramatic showdown on tax policy with the House. The Senate and the House are working with an uber-aggressive time line to meet President Trump's deadline of delivering him a tax bill to sign before the end of the year.JUST WATCHED Obvious differences in House, Senate tax plan Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obvious differences in House, Senate tax plan 02:545. Louis C.K.Comedian Louis C.K. is the latest Hollywood heavyweight to face sexual misconduct allegations. The New York Times reported the allegations of five women, who said C.K. acted inappropriately , including fondling himself in front of them. CNN has not confirmed the women's stories independently. The fallout has been swift : the premiere for his new movie was canceled, a "Late Show" appearance was ditched, HBO kicked him off a comedy special, and FX, where he's had several shows, said it would conduct a review. The comedian's publicist said he's "not going to answer any questions."JUST WATCHED Colbert addresses Louis C.K.'s nixed appearance Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Colbert addresses Louis C.K.'s nixed appearance 00:52QUOTE OF THE DAY"Everything is in such grief mode right now in this church (that) these decisions will have to unfold as they come for the people there."Southern Baptist Convention spokesman Roger Oldham, talking about the suggestion by the pastor of the First Baptist Church in Sutherland Spring, Texas, that the church should be demolished after the mass shooting there killed 25 people and an unborn childJUST WATCHED The victims of the Texas church shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The victims of the Texas church shooting 02:35BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.'i' fixed itiPhone users, your long national nightmare is over. Apple finally released a fix for the dreaded "i" autocorrect issue.Divine decreeIf you're headed to the Vatican, you might want to put your cell phone away, because Pope Francis is fed up with seeing them during MassRIP, JohnActor John Hillerman played many wonderful characters during his career, but none as lovable as the eccentric Jonathan Higgins on "Magnum, P.I."JUST WATCHED 'Magnum, P.I.' actor John Hillerman dead at 84 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Magnum, P.I.' actor John Hillerman dead at 84 01:04At least you've got 280 charactersStill waiting for a blue check mark from Twitter for your profile? Don't hold your breath.Up in the airWHAT'S FOR LUNCHThe first time I knew I wanted to serveFighting terror. Giving back. A sense of duty. Ahead of Veterans Day, CNN asked active duty military members and veterans to describe the first time they knew they wanted to serve in the armed forces.NUMBER OF THE DAY600,000+That's how many people signed up for Obamacare in the first four days of open enrollment , far outpacing last yearCNN NEWS QUIZTotal recallWhich former US President showed up for jury duty this week? Take CNN's weekly news quiz and find out.AND FINALLY ...Giggle girl