(CNN) A brewery in London can turn bread into beer. It's not magic, just a way to combat food waste. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. California shootingsFour people were killed and at least 10 wounded in a series of shootings in Northern California, but it could have been worse than that.Police say a man, possibly triggered by a dispute with a neighbor, went to seven different locations in Tehama County, firing on people at random.One of those locations was an elementary school, where the man -- whose name has not yet been released -- walked onto school grounds and fired through windows and walls with a rifle. But the school was on lockdown and the doors were locked. After six minutes, the gunman left. He was later killed by police.Police tape blocks access to Rancho Tehama Elementary School after a gunman tried to enter and shot out windows.2. PoliticsAttorney General Jeff Sessions couldn't recall a lot of things during his contentious appearance before the House Judiciary Committee, as he again answered lawmakers' questions about possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russia.JUST WATCHED Cooper breaks down Sessions' recollection Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cooper breaks down Sessions' recollection 02:44But he did say that, thanks to media reports, he now remembers a meeting with campaign aide George Papadopoulos that he had previously said he couldn't recall . However, Sessions doesn't remember what was said at the meeting, other than him telling Papadopoulos he wasn't authorized to speak to the Russians.JUST WATCHED Congressman: Sessions needs to come clean Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Congressman: Sessions needs to come clean 01:163. ZimbabweIs Robert Mugabe in control in Zimbabwe, or has the 93-year-old President been overthrown in a military coup?Soldiers are patrolling the streets; a military spokesman said Mugabe and his family are "safe." Still, Mugabe's exact whereabouts remain unknown to the public.JUST WATCHED Young Zimbabweans face up to Robert Mugabe Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Young Zimbabweans face up to Robert Mugabe 03:214. AustraliaAustralians overwhelmingly OK'd a same-sex marriage measure, but the vote was nonbinding, so it's up to Australian lawmakers to turn that into law. Australians voted 61.6% to 38.4% to change the definition of marriage to include same-sex couples.JUST WATCHED Same-sex marriage: 9 interesting facts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Same-sex marriage: 9 interesting facts 01:45But it will take a change to the country's Marriage Act to make same-sex marriage the law of the land. Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull is pushing to make that happen by Christmas, but conservative lawmakers could stall the process, as they're expected to push for religious protections in the bill.JUST WATCHED Australians say 'yes' to same-sex marriage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Australians say 'yes' to same-sex marriage 02:535. A letter to humanityWe've been warned. More than 16,000 scientists from 184 countries penned a letter to humanity telling us to fix Earth's environmental problems before it's too late. The letter, published in the journal BioScience , says if we don't start making significant changes to our behavior, the planet will sustain "substantial and irreversible" harm.JUST WATCHED California Gov. on climate fight: 'We're in' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH California Gov. on climate fight: 'We're in' 07:41The letter runs down all the usual suspects: climate change, "dead zones" in the oceans, threats to fresh water and forests, the extinction of some animals and unsustainable population growth.JUST WATCHED Trump has said often climate change isn't real Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump has said often climate change isn't real 01:36BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.So sexyWe have a new "Sexiest Man Alive." We won't spoil it for you here, but he's a country music superstar , a "Voice" coach and Gwen Stefani's main squeeze.Color coordinatedA group in Georgia is holding a "Come Meet a Black Person" networking event this week. No -- really.Fill 'er up... with hydrogenThis tiny little car runs on hydrogen and spits out water . So the environment is saved, right?JUST WATCHED Is hydrogen a legitimate fuel of the future? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is hydrogen a legitimate fuel of the future? 03:38Oh, baby!A Gold Star widow chose Veterans Day to reveal the gender of her baby, with a little help from her late husband's fellow servicemen.JUST WATCHED Soldiers help widow reveal baby's gender Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Soldiers help widow reveal baby's gender 01:20QUOTE OF THE DAYWe have a neighborhood that's been held hostage."Tampa, Florida, Mayor Bob Buckhorn, after a 60-year-old man was shot and killed in the city's Seminole Heights neighborhood -- the fourth unsolved killing in the area in the past month. Police say the slayings are related.JUST WATCHED Fourth death linked to series of Tampa murders Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fourth death linked to series of Tampa murders 01:21NUMBER OF THE DAY1 millionJUST WATCHED Taylor Swift plays new album for lucky fans Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Taylor Swift plays new album for lucky fans 00:48AND FINALLY ...Like a knife through... waterIt's been a while since we checked in with the Slow Mo Guys. This time they're swinging a samurai sword through some water bottles.