(CNN) Plan to travel this Thanksgiving week? Betcha wish you could reap the benefits of this $850 million investment in airplane beds . Here's what else you need to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Charles MansonCharles Manson, the infamous 1960s cult leader whose followers committed heinous murders that terrorized Los Angeles and shocked the nation, died Sunday of natural causes . He was 83.The diminutive and charismatic criminal orchestrated a wave of violence in August 1969 that took the lives of seven people, spawned headlines worldwide and landed him and his "Manson Family" of followers in prison for most of the rest of their lives. He was serving nine life terms in a California prison.2. President MugabeZimbabwean President Robert Mugabe has still not resigned , even after a week of political turmoil that ended with his own party calling for him to step down over the weekend and giving a deadline to resign. But that deadline has come and gone, and on Sunday night, Mugabe made a rambling TV address that did not end in his resignation.Mugabe has been in power for 37 years, and several groups seem content -- if not overjoyed -- that the controversial 93-year-old leader may soon be forced to step down. His own military is currently in control of the government, citizens are marching in the streets calling for him to resign and prominent foreign powers have withheld any significant criticism of the apparent coup.JUST WATCHED Report: Mugabe agrees to resignation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Report: Mugabe agrees to resignation 01:203. Mueller investigationInvestigators working for special counsel Robert Mueller a re scheduled to interview more senior White House officials in the coming weeks. These are high-profile people, like White House communications director Hope Hicks, White House counsel Don McGahn and Josh Raffel, a communications aide to White House senior adviser Jared Kushner.JUST WATCHED The Mueller investigation: Who could be next? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The Mueller investigation: Who could be next? 02:074. President TrumpTrump's Twitter drama with three college basketball players and one of their dads heated up over the weekend. The three UCLA students were arrested last week on suspicion of shoplifting while their team was in China. While Trump was in China on his diplomatic trip, he says he spoke with Chinese officials and got them released. He then essentially asked the players them to thank him personally for their release.They did, in a news conference. But when one of their fathers, the outspoken Lavar Ball, did not show the same gratitude, Trump got angry and tweeted : "Now that the three basketball players are out of China and saved from years in jail, LaVar Ball, the father of LiAngelo, is unaccepting of what I did for his son and that shoplifting is no big deal. I should have left them in jail!"JUST WATCHED Trump: I should have left UCLA players in jail Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: I should have left UCLA players in jail 01:285. Jeffrey TamborActor Jeffrey Tambor is the latest powerful man to have to answer to sexual harassment claims. Tambor, 73, reportedly has been accused by at least two people of inappropriate sexual conduct, including on the set of his Amazon show, "Transparent." In response to the allegations, Tambor has signaled he may step away from the show. He claimed in a statement through his publicist that the allegations are "simply and utterly untrue," and that while he loves the show, "this is no longer the job I signed up for four years ago."JUST WATCHED Silverman: Victims the only people who matter Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Silverman: Victims the only people who matter 01:21NUMBER OF THE DAY7JUST WATCHED Searchers race to find missing navy sub Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Searchers race to find missing navy sub 02:00BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Country music legend Mel Tillis died this weekend.'The Cosby Show' actor Earle Hyman also passed away'Justice League' is not lighting up the box officeJUST WATCHED 'Justice League' - CNN Movie Pass Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Justice League' - CNN Movie Pass 02:03Owning a dog may help you live longer, study saysJUST WATCHED Why pets make the best medicine Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why pets make the best medicine 02:08The Georgia Dome in Atlanta is going to be imploded todayIt's actually right next door to the CNN Center, so we CNN folks are getting ready for an earth-shaking watch party . RIP Dome!Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history The Georgia Dome, seen here in November 1992, was the home of the Atlanta Falcons for 25 years. The stadium is set for implosion Monday, November 20. Take a look back at some of the historic sporting events held at the Atlanta venue: Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history James Washington of the Dallas Cowboys recovers the football after a fumble by the Buffalo Bills' Thurman Thomas during Super Bowl XXVIII at the Georgia Dome in January 1994. The Cowboys went on to defeat the Bills 30-13. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history Kerri Strug vaults during the women's team gymnastics competition at the Summer Olympic Games in Atlanta in July 1996. Strug injured her left ankle following this routine but completed her second vault to clinch the team gold medal for the US women. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history The "Dream Team's" Reggie Miller, center, flashes his gold medal surrounded by other members of the US men's basketball team during the medal presentation at the 1996 Summer Olympics. Standing, from left, are Charles Barkley, Grant Hill, Penny Hardaway, David Robinson, Scottie Pippen, Miller, Karl Malone, John Stockton and Shaquille O'Neal. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history The Atlanta Falcons, led in part by running back Jamal Anderson, defeated the San Francisco 49ers 20-18 in the divisional round of the NFL playoffs in January 1999. The Falcons would go on the road to defeat the Minnesota Vikings and reach Super Bowl XXXIII. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history Tennessee Titans wide receiver Kevin Dyson falls short of the goal line when St. Louis Rams linebacker Mike Jones tackles him as time runs out in Super Bowl XXXIV in January 2000. The Rams defeated the Tennessee Titans 23-16. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history Maryland celebrates after defeating Indiana to win the NCAA men's basketball championship game in April 2002. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history Connecticut's Diana Taurasi celebrates with her teammates after they won the NCAA women's basketball championship game in April 2003. UConn defeated Tennessee 73-68. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history West Virginia Mountaineers quarterback Pat White throws to a receiver in the second half in a 38-35 win over the Georgia Bulldogs at the Sugar Bowl in January 2006. The game, which is usually held in New Orleans, was moved to the Georgia Dome because of damage from Hurricane Katrina. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history Ohio State center Greg Oden and Florida's Chris Richard, from left, Al Horford and Corey Brewer wait for a rebound in the NCAA men's basketball championship game in April 2007. Florida won the national title 84-75. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history Alabama's Mykal Riley makes a shot over Charles Rhodes of Mississippi State during the SEC Men's Basketball Tournament in March 2008. Riley's last-second 3-point shot would force the game into overtime, keeping many fans inside the stadium as a tornado churned toward downtown Atlanta. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history The Atlanta Falcons take the field before the NFC Championship Game against the San Francisco 49ers in January 2013. It was the first time Atlanta hosted an NFC Championship Game. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history Kevin Ware of the Louisville Cardinals cuts the net after his team defeated Michigan 82-76 in the NCAA men's basketball championship game in April 2013. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history The Georgia Dome hosts soccer's CONCACAF Gold Cup quarterfinal game between Mexico and Trinidad and Tobago in July 2013. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history Confetti fills the Georgia Dome as Alabama celebrates a 24-7 win over Washington in the College Football Playoff Peach Bowl semifinal in December. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history The Green Bay Packers kick off to the Atlanta Falcons to start the NFC Championship Game in January. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Georgia Dome flashback: Revisiting 25 years of sports history Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan celebrates after Atlanta defeats Green Bay 34-23 to advance to Super Bowl LI. The victory was the Falcons' final game at the Georgia Dome. Hide Caption 17 of 17AND FINALLY ...JUST WATCHED Highlights from 2017 American Music Awards Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Highlights from 2017 American Music Awards 01:52Pink flies, a band makes historyMissed the American Music Awards last night? Here's our recap.