(CNN) Before the massacre, the First Baptist Church meant everything to Sutherland Springs, Texas. These videos show why . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Texas church shootingThe man who helped stop one of the worst massacres in modern US history said he was "scared to death." Stephen Willeford, who shot and chased the Texas church shooter, said he feared for his and the congregation's safety when he faced off with Devin Patrick Kelley, who killed 26 people Sunday at a small church in rural Texas. Willeford also said he's not a hero.Kelley, who was armed with an assault rifle and 15 loaded magazines, fired off 450 rounds during his rampage at the First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs. He had three gunshot wounds, including a self-inflicted shot to the head. The Air Force said it failed to relay Kelley's court-martial conviction for domestic assault to law enforcement agencies. Doing so could have stopped him from buying the guns used in the shooting.We're learning more about the people who died in the shooting, and the details are heartbreaking. Lula White was grandmother to Kelley's wife and had received threatening messages from him. Annabelle Pomeroy was the pastor's daughter and just 14 years old. But the losses the Holcombe family endured are unspeakable. Eight members of the family were killed in the shooting, including a 17-month-old baby.Mother of shooting victim: Piece of me is goneMother of shooting victim: Piece of me is gone 01:31Mother of shooting victim: Piece of me is gone2. Trump in South KoreaNo "Rocket Man" insults. No over-the-top rhetoric. Even talk of diplomacy. President Donald Trump's using a softer tone as he discusses North Korea while visiting South Korea today. The President held a joint news conference with South Korean President Moon Jae-in, where he called North Korea "a worldwide threat" (no surprise there) and said it's " time to act with urgency " to stop its nuclear ambitions. But he also said "it makes sense" for Kim Jong Un's regime to "come to the table and make a deal." Trump added that "we hope to God we never have to use" the military strength the United States has on the Korean Peninsula.JUST WATCHED Trump: North Korea a worldwide threat Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: North Korea a worldwide threat 02:253. Election DayAlthough we're still hashing out Election Day 2016 (it'll be over one day, won't it?), Election Day 2017 is upon us . And like all things this year, it's all about Trump. No, the President's not on the ballot, but his presence looms large over today's vote. Especially in the governor's race in Virginia, which might give us the best window into how voters view his job performance so far.Virginia has turned more and more blue in recent years, and Trump is not popular there, so this should be the Democratic candidate's race for the taking. But Democratic Lt. Gov. Ralph Northam is in a tighter-than-expected race with Republican Ed Gillespie, who has embraced Trump's policies. Voters will also pick a new governor in New Jersey, while New York Mayor Bill de Blasio is expected to cruise to re-election.JUST WATCHED Voters to head to polls in Virginia Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Voters to head to polls in Virginia 01:534. Migrant crisisWe haven't talked about the migrant crisis lately, but desperate people are still taking to the Mediterranean Sea, risking their lives with treacherous journeys in flimsy vessels in hopes of finding a better life in Europe. And there's more bad news to report in this slow-motion disaster -- the bodies of 26 teen girls were found this week in the Mediterranean. The girls are believed to have come from Niger and Nigeria via Libya. Coroners will be investigating to see whether the girls had been tortured or sexually abused. Libya is known as a jumping-off point for migrants and a hotbed for human traffickers.Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A woman cries after being rescued in the Mediterranean Sea about 15 miles north of Sabratha, Libya, on July 25, 2017. More than 6,600 migrants and refugees entered Europe by sea in January 2018, according to the UN migration agency , and more than 240 people died on the Mediterranean Sea during that month. Hide Caption 1 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Refugees and migrants get off a fishing boat at the Greek island of Lesbos after crossing the Aegean Sea from Turkey in October 2015. Hide Caption 2 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Hide Caption 3 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Migrants step over dead bodies while being rescued in the Mediterranean Sea, off the coast of Libya in October 2016. Agence France-Presse photographer Aris Messinis was on a Spanish rescue boat that encountered several crowded migrant boats. Messinis said the rescuers counted 29 dead bodies -- 10 men and 19 women, all between 20 and 30 years old. "I've (seen) in my career a lot of death," he said. "I cover war zones, conflict and everything. I see a lot of death and suffering, but this is something different. Completely different." Hide Caption 4 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Authorities stand near the body of 2-year-old Alan Kurdi on the shore of Bodrum, Turkey, in September 2015. Alan, his brother and their mother drowned while fleeing Syria. This photo was shared around the world, often with a Turkish hashtag that means "Flotsam of Humanity." Hide Caption 5 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Migrants board a train at Keleti station in Budapest, Hungary, after the station was reopened in September 2015. Hide Caption 6 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Children cry as migrants in Greece try to break through a police cordon to cross into Macedonia in August 2015. Thousands of migrants -- most of them fleeing Syria's bitter conflict -- were stranded in a no-man's land on the border. Hide Caption 7 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos The Kusadasi Ilgun, a sunken 20-foot boat, lies in waters off the Greek island of Samos in November 2016. Hide Caption 8 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Migrants bathe outside near a makeshift shelter in an abandoned warehouse in Subotica, Serbia, in January 2017. Hide Caption 9 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A police officer in Calais, France, tries to prevent migrants from heading for the Channel Tunnel to England in June 2015. Hide Caption 10 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A migrant walks past a burning shack in the southern part of the "Jungle" migrant camp in Calais, France, in March 2016. Part of the camp was being demolished -- and the inhabitants relocated -- in response to unsanitary conditions at the site. Hide Caption 11 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Migrants stumble as they cross a river north of Idomeni, Greece, attempting to reach Macedonia on a route that would bypass the border-control fence in March 2016. Hide Caption 12 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos In September 2015, an excavator dumps life vests that were previously used by migrants on the Greek island of Lesbos. Hide Caption 13 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos The Turkish coast guard helps refugees near Aydin, Turkey, after their boat toppled en route to Greece in January 2016. Hide Caption 14 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A woman sits with children around a fire at the northern Greek border point of Idomeni in March 2016. Hide Caption 15 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A column of migrants moves along a path between farm fields in Rigonce, Slovenia, in October 2015. Hide Caption 16 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A ship crowded with migrants flips onto its side in May 2016 as an Italian navy ship approaches off the coach of Libya. Passengers had rushed to the port side, a shift in weight that proved too much. Five people died and more than 500 were rescued. Hide Caption 17 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Refugees break through a barbed-wire fence on the Greece-Macedonia border in February 2016, as tensions boiled over regarding new travel restrictions into Europe. Hide Caption 18 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Policemen try to disperse hundreds of migrants by spraying them with fire extinguishers during a registration procedure in Kos, Greece, in August 2015. Hide Caption 19 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A member of the humanitarian organization Sea-Watch holds a migrant baby who drowned following the capsizing of a boat off Libya in May 2016. Hide Caption 20 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A migrant in Gevgelija, Macedonia, tries to sneak onto a train bound for Serbia in August 2015. Hide Caption 21 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Migrants, most of them from Eritrea, jump into the Mediterranean from a crowded wooden boat during a rescue operation about 13 miles north of Sabratha, Libya, in August 2016. Hide Caption 22 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Refugees rescued off the Libyan coast get their first sight of Sardinia as they sail in the Mediterranean Sea toward Cagliari, Italy, in September 2015. Hide Caption 23 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Local residents and rescue workers help migrants from the sea after a boat carrying them sank off the island of Rhodes, Greece, in April 2015. Hide Caption 24 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Investigators in Burgenland, Austria, inspect an abandoned truck that contained the bodies of refugees who died of suffocation in August 2015. The 71 victims -- most likely fleeing war-ravaged Syria -- were 60 men, eight women and three children. Hide Caption 25 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Syrian refugees sleep on the floor of a train car taking them from Macedonia to the Serbian border in August 2015. How to help the ongoing migrant crisis Hide Caption 26 of 265. Rand PaulSen. Rand Paul of Kentucky suffered five rib fractures in an attack, but it had nothing to do with politics and everything to do with -- yard waste? That's what a neighbor said likely led to the dispute between Paul and Rene Boucher, who is charged with fourth-degree assault in an attack last week on the senator. The two live next door to each other in a gated community in Bowling Green and have quarreled over grass clippings and yard waste for years , according to the unnamed neighbor. Boucher's attorney and the Kentucky State Police would only say that the dispute revolved around a "trivial" matter.JUST WATCHED Sen. Rand Paul's injuries worse than first reported Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sen. Rand Paul's injuries worse than first reported 00:40BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Disney grabDisney's kingdom may about to become a whole lot larger. The entertainment giant is reportedly Disney's kingdom may about to become a whole lot larger. The entertainment giant is reportedly in talks to buy 21st Century Fox 's TV and movie assets.'i' give upAutocorrect is always annoying, but doubly so when Autocorrect is always annoying, but doubly so when a bug in an Apple update automatically turns a lowercase "i" into an "A" with a question mark on iPhones.Smart pacifiersGuess babies need Fitbits, too. There's a ton of new Guess babies need Fitbits, too. There's a ton of new health-tracking wearables for babies out there, including a pacifier that checks the temperature of wee ones.Virtual funA visit to a theme park in Japan doesn't just mean roller coasters and bumper cars. It can also mean fighting aliens and taking magic carpet ridesNUMBER OF THE DAY50%That's how much Sears is offering as a discount on everything until Thanksgiving as the cash-strapped retailer struggles to survive.AND FINALLY ...You don't have to go home, but ...