Story highlights Many fans still support Armstrong, despite recent doping revelations"He's given a lot of people hope in this world," crisis communications expert saysSpokesman for federal prosecutor declines to say if criminal probe will be reopenedArmstrong is accused of taking part in sophisticated doping programThe 84 million bright yellow wristbands distributed by Lance Armstrong's cancer charity have become a well-known symbol of strength and perseverance against adversity."LIVESTRONG," they urge.In the wake of Wednesday's release of hundreds of pages of evidence supporting persistent allegations of doping against the legendary cyclist, there's another take on the wristband.Critics have struck out the "V" to make it read what they accuse Armstrong of doing for more than a decade: "LIE STRONG."JUST WATCHED Lance Armstrong: A champion at cheating? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lance Armstrong: A champion at cheating? 02:05JUST WATCHED Cycling: Armstrong damned by report Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cycling: Armstrong damned by report 01:24JUST WATCHED Attorney: Armstrong case a 'witch hunt' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Attorney: Armstrong case a 'witch hunt' 01:46JUST WATCHED 'Dope, or don't compete at highest level' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Dope, or don't compete at highest level' 05:52Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – After denying the allegations for years, cyclist Lance Armstrong admitted to using performance-enhancing drugs. As a result, he was stripped of his seven Tour de France titles and an Olympic bronze medal. Click through the gallery for a look at his life and career. Hide Caption 1 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong, 17, competes in the Jeep Triathlon Grand Prix in 1988. He became a professional triathlete at age 16 and joined the U.S. National Cycling Team two years later. Hide Caption 2 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong wins the 18th stage of the Tour de France in 1995. He finished the race for the first time that year, ending in 36th place. Hide Caption 3 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong rides at the Ikon Ride for the Roses to benefit the Lance Armstrong Foundation in May 1998. He established the foundation to benefit cancer research after he was diagnosed with testicular cancer in 1996. After treatment, he was declared cancer-free in February 1997. Hide Caption 4 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong leads his teammates during the final stage of the 1999 Tour de France. Hide Caption 5 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong takes his honor lap on the Champs-Élysées in Paris after winning the Tour de France for the first time in 1999. Hide Caption 6 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – After winning the 2000 Tour de France, Armstrong holds his son Luke on his shoulders. Hide Caption 7 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong rides during the 18th stage of the 2001 Tour de France. He won the tour that year for the third consecutive time. Hide Caption 8 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong celebrates winning the 10th stage of the Tour de France in 2001. Hide Caption 9 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – After winning the 2001 Tour de France, Armstrong presents President George W. Bush with a U.S. Postal Service yellow jersey and a replica of the bike he used to win the race. Hide Caption 10 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong celebrates on the podium after winning the Tour de France by 61 seconds in 2003. Hide Caption 11 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Jay Leno interviews Armstrong on "The Tonight Show" in 2003. Hide Caption 12 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – After his sixth consecutive Tour de France win, Armstrong attends a celebration in his honor in front of the Texas State Capitol in Austin. Hide Caption 13 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong arrives at the 2005 American Music Awards in Los Angeles with then-fiancee Sheryl Crow. The couple never made it down the aisle, splitting up the following year. Hide Caption 14 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong holds up a paper displaying the number seven at the start of the Tour de France in 2005. He went on to win his seventh consecutive Tour de France. Hide Caption 15 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong testifies during a Senate hearing in 2008 on Capitol Hill. The hearing focused on finding a cure for cancer in the 21st century. Hide Caption 16 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – In 2009, Armstrong suffered a broken collarbone after falling during a race in Spain. Hide Caption 17 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Young Armstrong fans write messages on the ground ahead of the 2009 Tour de France. He came in third place that year. Hide Caption 18 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong launches the three-day Livestrong Global Cancer Summit in 2009 in Dublin, Ireland. The event was organized by his foundation. Hide Caption 19 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – In May 2010, Armstrong crashes during the Amgen Tour of California. That same day, he denied allegations of doping made by former teammate Floyd Landis. Hide Caption 20 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong looks back as he rides during the 2010 Tour de France. Hide Caption 21 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong's son Luke; his twin daughters, Isabelle and Grace; and his 1-year-old son, Max, stand outside the Radio Shack team bus on a rest day during the 2010 Tour de France. Hide Caption 22 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong finished 23rd in the 2010 Tour de France. He announced his retirement from the world of professional cycling in February 2011. He said he wanted to devote more time to his family and the fight against cancer. Hide Caption 23 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – The frame of Armstrong's bike is engraved with the names of his four children at the time and the Spanish word for five, "cinco." His fifth child, Olivia, was born in October 2010. Hide Caption 24 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong competes in the 70.3 Ironman Triathlon in Panama City, Florida, in February 2012. He went on to claim two Half Ironman triathlon titles by June of that year. Hide Caption 25 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – Armstrong addresses participants at the Livestrong Challenge Ride on October 21, 2012, days after he stepped down as chairman of his Livestrong cancer charity. Hide Caption 26 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – International Cycling Union President Pat McQuaid announces the decision to strip Armstrong of his seven Tour de France wins and ban him from the tournament for life on October 22, 2012. "Lance Armstrong has no place in cycling," he said. Hide Caption 27 of 28 Photos: Photos: Lance Armstrong's rise and fall Lance Armstrong's rise and fall – In January 2013, Armstrong speaks with Oprah Winfrey about the controversy surrounding his cycling career. He admitted, unequivocally and for the first time, that he used performance-enhancing drugs while competing. Hide Caption 28 of 28Still, the flood of less-than-flattering details doesn't seem to be shaking the resolve of fans accustomed to accusations that have swirled for more than a decade, accusations the seven-time winner of cycling's most prestigious event -- the Tour de France -- has resolutely denied.The information released Wednesday by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency is part of a report to international cycling officials supporting the organization's request to strip Armstrong of his tour titles and other accolades. He is also subject to a lifetime ban on competition in events sanctioned by U.S. Olympic sports bodies.Armstrong's fans took to Facebook and other social media venues to stand by the man many see less as an athletic titan and more as an inspirational cancer survivor who has raised millions for cancer research and assistance.The yellow Livestrong bracelets are synonymous with Lance Armstrong's charity."Whether you did, or you didn't, you still won 7 tour titles, you never failed a test and what you have done to increase the awareness of cancer, is enormous," one fan wrote on his Facebook fan page"Believe me, no one can tarnish the good you have done," wrote another.It's too soon to tell what the release of evidence against Armstrong and his teammates, many of whom admitted doping, will ultimately have on Armstrong's charity efforts and his overall reputation."Our donations have increased to nearly double their usual amount since August," said Katherine McLane, spokeswoman for the Lance Armstrong Foundation."He's a person who helped change the perception of cancer survivors around the world. He's done an incredible amount of good for people affected by cancer and nothing can change that," she said.Armstrong won his seven Tour de France championships after being diagnosed in 1996 with testicular cancer, which spread to his lungs, lymph nodes, abdomen and brain. By December of that year, after months of surgery and treatment, doctors declared him cancer free. The following year, he established his foundation.Three years after his diagnosis, Armstrong won the first of his seven Tour de France titles, thrilling and inspiring millions in his home country, where cycling is barely followed. His victory brought increased attention to the sport in the United States and helped raised money and attention for cancer research worldwide.Still, throughout it all, rumors and allegations of doping dogged the Texas native.In 2002, a 21-month investigation into allegations that Armstrong's team used banned substances during the 2000 Tour de France closed after finding no evidence of illegal drug use. The International Cycling Union released a report in 2006 clearing him of allegations from 1999. And in February, federal prosecutors in Los Angeles closed a two-year investigation into the allegations without filing charges.In the latest investigation, the USADA said examination of old Armstrong blood samples seemed to indicated doping. Its report also said Armstrong made a "financial agreement" to bury a positive test for a banned substance and accused the team of falsifying prescription records to cover corticosteroid use by Armstrong.The file also contains affidavits from Armstrong's teammates implicating themselves, and Armstrong, in the cheating.The agency said its investigation "found proof beyond a reasonable doubt that Lance Armstrong engaged in serial cheating through the use, administration and trafficking of performance enhancing drugs and methods and that Armstrong participated in running the US Postal Service Team as a doping conspiracy.""The evidence in the case against Lance Armstrong is beyond strong; it is as strong as, or stronger than, that presented in any case brought by USADA over the initial twelve years of USADA's existence," said the organization, which is not a governmental agency but is designated by Congress as the country's official anti-doping organization for Olympic sports.Armstrong himself hasn't commented directly on the case. He posted to Twitter Wednesday night, however, saying he was "hanging with my family, unaffected" and thinking about an upcoming event for his charity.His lawyer, Tim Herman, called the agency's report a "one-sided hatchet job" and a "government-funded witch hunt."A spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's office in Los Angeles, which ran the investigation that was closed in February, declined to comment on whether the evidence released publicly Wednesday would spur renewed interest in possible criminal sanctions against Armstrong or anyone else associated with the team.Bruce Deming, a former federal prosecutor and avid amateur cyclist himself, said he doubted the criminal case would be reopened."The feds knew what USADA knew. USADA knew what the feds knew. So this is not new information to the prosecutors, I don't think," he said.In fact, he said, he suspects the information revealed Wednesday is largely similar to what federal prosecutors unveiled."This investigation against Lance, which you know involved multiple federal agencies and a very large, well-organized federal investigation and what has to be millions of dollars spent, came up with apparently not enough hard evidence to charge Lance Armstrong with a parking ticket," Deming said.Still, the report has had an impact on some fans, for whom the evidence appeared to sour their opinion of Armstrong."I am sad and have finally accepted there really are no true heroes in our world," one Facebook fan wrote."On behalf of pretty much everyone who has held you in high regard... Looked on as an idol in the wake of your excellence in your sport... Bought your books and aspired to be as (successful) as you are... If the allegations are true then you have duped your country and fellow athletes," wrote another.Still, Howard Bragman, an expert in crisis communications, said he does not expect the accusations will have any significant impact on Armstrong's legacy."He's done amazing things for people with cancer," Bragman said. "He's given a lot of people hope in this world. And to many millions of Americans and people around the world, Lance Armstrong will always be a hero. And none of these allegations are ever going to change that."