(CNN) The violence that erupted in Charlottesville almost two years ago sent shock waves far beyond the picturesque university town in Virginia.One woman died, dozens were injured, and a nation was traumatized by the specter of rising alt-right violence.The Charlottesville story is far from over, but one chapter closed Friday when James A. Fields Jr. was sentenced to life in prison for hate crimes. The 22-year-old was behind the wheel of the car that plowed into a crowd of counterprotesters, killing Heather Heyer.This is how we got here.The statuesIn February 2017, the Charlottesville City Council voted to rename two parks named for Confederate generals and to remove a bronze statue of one of those generals, Robert E. Lee, from an eponymous downtown park.Other Southern cities had removed dozens of Confederate monuments from public property after a self-described white supremacist massacred nine black churchgoers in Charleston, South Carolina, in 2015.The Charlottesville move met with resistance, as some residents sued, and a judge blocked the statue's removal for six months while the matter was litigated.The City Council voted again in April, this time agreeing to sell the statue and let the buyer remove it, CNN affiliate WVIR reported.The first response by white nationalistsJUST WATCHED Richard Spencer: 'Make white privilege great again' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Richard Spencer: 'Make white privilege great again' 01:08In mid-May 2017, Richard Spencer led a demonstration that served a prelude to the deadly violence that occurred in August.Spencer, a prominent white nationalist and a graduate of the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, led torch-wielding demonstrators in a march on the city. They were met by counterprotesters. Three people were arrested, and one police officer was hurt.In July, about 50 Ku Klux Klan members, some in Klan robes, arrived in the city, where they were outnumbered 20-to-1 by counterprotesters.Torches on campusJUST WATCHED Torch-bearing white nationalists march on the University of Virginia Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Torch-bearing white nationalists march on the University of Virginia 00:45Jason Kessler, a vocal white nationalist, organized a "Unite the Right" rally for the weekend of August 11-12, 2017, that was aimed at "standing up for our history."On Friday night, August 11, a group marched across the University of Virginia campus carrying torches and chanting white nationalist slogans. Scuffles with counterprotesters broke out near a campus statue of President Thomas Jefferson. Police ran off the white nationalists and counterprotesters.Saturday violenceJUST WATCHED One killed in Charlottesville protest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH One killed in Charlottesville protest 01:23On Saturday, August 12, the two groups again fought in the streets. The governor declared a state of emergency . More law enforcement officers poured into the city.Around 1:30 p.m. ET, a silver Dodge Charger plowed into a crowd of people who opposed the white nationalists. The often-played video was dramatic, showing protesters flying through the air upon impact.Police arrested the driver and identified him as James Alex Fields Jr., then 20, of Maumee, Ohio. Later that day, two Virginia State Police troopers died after their helicopter crashed while on patrol near the clashes.Trump's 'fine people' remarkJUST WATCHED Heated panel over Trump's response to violence (full) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Heated panel over Trump's response to violence (full) 09:14Hours after the attack, President Donald Trump went onto Twitter and admonished "hatred, bigotry and violence, on many sides." Many people felt he should have singled out the white nationalists who staged the rally.Two days later, Trump held a news conference and further inflamed critics, saying "both sides are to blame.""What about the 'alt-left' that came charging at, as you say, the 'alt-right,' do they have any semblance of guilt?" Trump asked. Trump also said there were some "very bad people" on both sides, but that there was some who came out to protest the removal of Robert E. Lee's statue who were "fine people."Critics replayed the comments over and over. Trump defended his words as recently as April , when former Vice President Joe Biden referred to them while announcing his candidacy for the presidency.UVA bans SpencerIn October 2018 , UVA acted against Spencer, banning him from campus for four years. Nine other people involved in the United the Right rally were also banned.The march toward justiceJUST WATCHED Charlottesville driver gets life in prison for attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Charlottesville driver gets life in prison for attack 02:30In December 2018, Fields was found guilty in state court of first-degree murder and nine other charges. He will be sentenced July 15.Fields pleaded guilty to 29 federal hate crimes last March, a plea that allowed him to avoid capital punishment. On Friday, he was sentenced to life without a chance of parole.The statues are still there