Thousand Oaks, California (CNN) It took just three minutes for Ventura County firefighters Martin Gonzalez and Damon Zielinski to respond to the late night call of shots fired at the Borderline Bar & Grill, back in November . But it would be days before either would truly sleep again after what would be some of their most emotional days on the job."Before we even left the station, our dispatcher goes, 'Hey, we're getting reports of numerous shots fired and you might have two victims,'" said Gonzalez, a fire captain who's been in the fire service for 31 years, 16 of those years with Ventura County.They arrived to a still active scene so they staged three blocks away."Probably 13, 14 shots -- and loud," Gonzalez recalled. "Seemed like they were right outside the engine.""Almost like two different people were exchanging gunfire," Zielinski added.Thinking they might be in the middle of the shooting, Gonzalez directed the rig to move under a freeway overpass."We backed up and pulled on the off-ramp. Just as we backed in, you could see probably 20 to 30 people running across the intersection," Gonzalez said.As people ran away, others were just arriving, looking for family and friends as news of the shooting spread on social media. It was country college night at Borderline, so many of the people arriving were parents looking for their sons and daughters.Gonzalez understood their fear. On the way to the shooting, a moment of panic swept through him as his thoughts momentarily turned from his job to his two eldest daughters who frequented Borderline."I had to text my wife just, 'Hey, are the girls home?'" Gonzalez recalled, his emotions caught in his throat. "She texted back, 'Yeah, what's going on?' I go 'Okay.' I didn't have time for anything else."Earlier in the night, Zielinski had seen his friends posting pictures on social media from inside Borderline of everyone having a good time."Just knowing there's people that are inside that I know," said Zielinski, 31, a US Marine veteran. "You're just trying not to think about it."Once the shooting stopped, people began coming to their engine."A lot of it wasn't anything major. It was just cuts from glass," said Gonzalez, noting that the first responders began putting on their bulletproof vests.Then a sheriff's deputy pulled up and said his partner had been shot."A lot of us pull him out, put him on the ground, start cutting off his uniform to find out where the gunshots were and started doing CPR," Gonzalez said, remembering how they knew they needed to get the officer to the hospital as quickly as possible by ambulance. "We load him up on the gurney. Damon and myself jump in."Gonzalez and Zielinski couldn't help but think of the man's family. Although neither knew the wounded officer personally, they recognized him as one of their own."We've been on several calls with him," Gonzalez said. "From working with him, he was a real jokester, you know, a nice guy. We were on with deputies all the time and they're like one of us ... one of our family."As soon as they got to the hospital, medical teams were at the door, immediately taking over chest compressions while at the same time trying to stop the officer's bleeding. The firefighters had counted several gunshot wounds, but they hoped somehow this man would survive.Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Molly Esterline is hugged by David Crawford on the scene of a shooting at a bar in Thousand Oaks, California, on Thursday, November 8. Hide Caption 1 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar People stand in a parking lot along South Moorpark Road in Thousand Oaks in the aftermath of the shooting. Hide Caption 2 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Investigators huddle at the command post near the bar. Hide Caption 3 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Nellie Wong cries as Chyann Worrell holds her and Erika Sigman, right, stands beside them. All three were inside the Borderline Bar and Grill when shooting started. Hide Caption 4 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Police work outside the venue where the shooting occurred. Hide Caption 5 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Tim Dominguez, who was in the bar with his son, sits distraught under a freeway overpass near the crime scene in Thousand Oaks. Hide Caption 6 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Holden Harrah, 21, right, hugs family and friends after witnessing the shooting. Hide Caption 7 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar A forensics team collects evidence at the scene. Hide Caption 8 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar An American Red Cross Disaster Relief vehicle is seen outside the Thousands Oaks Teen Center where people have come for family assistance following the bar shooting. Hide Caption 9 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Law enforcement officers guard the road leading to the Borderline Bar and Grill. Hide Caption 10 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar People comfort each other near the scene of a mass shooting at the Borderline Bar & Grill in Thousand Oaks, Californina, early Thursday, November 8. Hide Caption 11 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Ventura County Sheriff Geoff Dean briefs reporters on the deadly shooting. Hide Caption 12 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar A woman who fled from the shooting gets hugs from relatives in Thousand Oaks. Hide Caption 13 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar An FBI agent talks to a potential witness. Hide Caption 14 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Officers stand near a police SUV at the shooting scene in an image from aerial video. Hide Caption 15 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Matt Wennerstorm, still wearing a blood-stained shirt, talks to members of the media outside the Borderline Bar & Grill. Hide Caption 16 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Investigators in hazmat outfits work out of the command center at the shooting scene. Hide Caption 17 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar People comfort each other near the shooting scene. Hide Caption 18 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Women who fled from the shooting stand by a sheriff's deputy. Hide Caption 19 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar People await news about their friends in the Borderline Bar & Grill shooting. Hide Caption 20 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar People walk away from the shooting scene. Hide Caption 21 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Police vehicles block an intersection near the shooting in an image from aerial video. Hide Caption 22 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar Sheriff's deputies speak to a possible witness. Hide Caption 23 of 24 Photos: In photos: Mass shooting at California bar People console one another near the shooting scene. Hide Caption 24 of 24The firemen were cleared around 1 a.m. and headed back to the station for a debriefing. During the debriefing, Gonzalez received a text from his wife. She had just seen friends of theirs on the news. They hadn't been able to get in touch with their son, who went to school with Gonzalez's daughters. He was at Borderline."I'm looking at this text and trying to go through our debriefing at the same time. And I go, 'No! This can't be happening,'" Gonzalez said, his eyes soft as he recalled this painful memory. "I find out the next morning he was one of the victims."Jake Dunham, 21 years old, was one of the 11 people killed when the gunman , a US Marine veteran, entered the packed venue in a black trench coat and began shooting.Adrenaline still pumping and their phones ringing nonstop as word of the shooting spread, neither of the firefighters was able to sleep after their lengthy debriefings.After daybreak, they learned that Sgt. Ron Helus of the Ventura County Sheriff's Office, the officer they tried to save, had also died. A 29-year law enforcement veteran known for his hard work ethic, Helus was shot six times . He was planning to retire the following year.Zielinski volunteered to participate in the procession to transfer Sgt. Helus from Los Robles Hospital to the coroner's office."The outpouring of support that was already being shown from the community of just civilians going out there, standing on street corners, pulling flags, making posters and signs," Zielinski said, describing the procession.Gonzalez headed home. "My goal was just to get home and kind of be with my family. That usually makes me feel better when something tragic happens," the 54-year-old said. "I get home talked to my wife, hugged my wife, hugged my daughters. It was emotional."Hours after the shooting, a fire rages. And then, another fireAfter the procession, Zielinski also headed home, filled his roommates in on what happened and then fell asleep face down on the couch. About 30 minutes later, one roommate returned and told Zielinski that it looked like there was a big fire outside.It was about 1:30 p.m. -- some 14 hours after the shooting -- when Zielinski looked out his window and realized the fire might be a real threat. He turned on the news. The fire was just about a mile away from Borderline."That was when the Hill Fire was just cresting the 101 freeway and they were shutting it down and showing it jumping the freeway," Zielinski said. He immediately headed back to work.Gonzalez had finally fallen asleep when his wife walked in and told him his phone was going off. She figured they wanted him to get back to work."She opens the blinds and I could just see the smoke," Gonzalez said. Their house was only about four blocks away from the fire.After the shooting and then with the Hill Fire , resources were spread thin, so the firefighters ran medical calls well into the evening.Then the Woolsey Fire started to rage, 15 miles away."I hear one of our chiefs on the radio saying, 'Hey, I need at least the six closest engines ... to Oak Park,'" said Gonzalez who directed their rig that way to scout out a neighborhood and get ready. They were told the fire was about three or four hours away. "Within probably half an hour, they're like, 'Fire's at the ridge top already.'"The wind had picked up, hurtling the Woolsey Fire down the hill and into the residential community within 20 to 30 minutes, the firefighters said. The brush fire spread to backyards and then to the houses. The firefighters were able to save all the homes in the first block where they staged.It was after it passed through there, that homes began to catch on fire.So many resources were still at the Hill Fire, and the Woolsey Fire was now moving too quickly for them to keep pace.Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Jacob Saylors, 11, walks through the burned remains of his home in Paradise, California, on Sunday, November 18. His family lost a home in the same spot to a fire 10 years earlier. Hide Caption 1 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Lidia Steineman, who lost her home in the Camp Fire, prays during a vigil for fire victims on November 18 in Chico, California. More than 50 people gathered at the memorial service. Hide Caption 2 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California From left, California Gov.-elect Gavin Newsom, California Gov. Jerry Brown, President Donald Trump, Paradise Mayor Jody Jones and FEMA Administrator Brock Long survey damage left by the Camp Fire in Paradise, California, on Saturday, November 17. The death toll from the Camp Fire has risen to 76 and more than 1,200 people remain unaccounted for. Hide Caption 3 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A child wears a smoke mask while watching President Trump''s motorcade in Chico on November 17. Hide Caption 4 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Fire evacuees sift through donated items in a Chico parking lot November 17. Hide Caption 5 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A group of children hold an American flag as the motorcade of President Donald Trump drives through Chico, California, on November 17. Hide Caption 6 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A firefighter searches for human remains on Friday, November 16, in a Paradise trailer park destroyed in the Camp Fire. Hide Caption 7 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California President Donald Trump visits a neighborhood impacted by the Woolsey Fire in Malibu, California, on November 17. Hide Caption 8 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Dakota Keltner, right, rests on Havyn Cargill-Morris on November 16 in a truck at a makeshift encampment outside a Walmart store in Chico, California. The camp became a temporary respite for people displaced by the Camp Fire. Hide Caption 9 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A burned neighborhood is seen on Thursday, November 15, in Paradise, California. Hide Caption 10 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Rescue workers sift through rubble in search of human remains on Wednesday, November 14, at a burned property in Paradise. Hide Caption 11 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters work to control the Camp Fire on November 14 north of Oroville, California. Hide Caption 12 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Evacuee Denise Chester hugs her son, Antonio Batres, as she volunteers her time sorting clothes on November 14 at a makeshift shelter in Chico. Chester, who didn't want to know yet whether her home survived, said: "I want to help. I don't want to shut down." Hide Caption 13 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Tape outlines the location where sheriff's deputies on November 14 recovered the body of a Camp Fire victim. Hide Caption 14 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Magalia resident Luis Badres and his family left his home because of the Camp Fire. They were living in a tent on Tuesday, November 13, in the parking lot of a Chico Walmart. Hide Caption 15 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A long line of residents seeking to return to Malibu wait at a checkpoint on November 13 on Pacific Coast Highway after Woolsey Fire evacuation orders were lifted for the eastern portion of the city. Hide Caption 16 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A helicopter flies near the Woolsey Fire burning in the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area. Hide Caption 17 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Roger Kelton wipes away tears on November 13 while searching through the remains of his mother-in-law's home in Agoura Hills. It was destroyed by the Woolsey Fire. Hide Caption 18 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A melted fence runs along a hillside as firefighters battle the Woolsey Fire in Agoura Hills on November 13. Hide Caption 19 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters search through the remains of a Paradise house on November 13. Hide Caption 20 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Smoke fills the horizon on November 13 as an airplane flies near a flare-up of the Woolsey Fire near Lake Sherwood. Hide Caption 21 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A fire truck drives through part of Paradise on November 13. Hide Caption 22 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California An air tanker drops water on a fire along the Ronald Reagan Freeway in Simi Valley on Monday, November 12. Hide Caption 23 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Samantha Esau and Emily Garcia take in stray cats from an evacuated Paradise home on November 12. Hide Caption 24 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters put out hot spots in Paradise on November 12. Hide Caption 25 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Joseph Grado and his wife, Susan, embrace at a shelter in Chico on November 12. The Camp Fire destroyed their home. Hide Caption 26 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A firefighter battles a fire in Simi Valley on November 12. Hide Caption 27 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A plane drops fire retardant on the Woolsey Fire near Malibu on November 12. Hide Caption 28 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Betsy Ann Cowley walks through Pulga, near where investigators were trying to determine the cause of the Camp Fire. Hide Caption 29 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A resident sprays down a roof as firefighters battle the Peak Fire in Simi Valley. Hide Caption 30 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Shawn Slack carries a chainsaw on November 12 after trees burned in Paradise. Hide Caption 31 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Chris and Nancy Brown embrace while looking over the remains of their home on November 12. Hide Caption 32 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters put out hot spots in Thousand Oaks on November 12. Hide Caption 33 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters battle a fire in Simi Valley on November 12. Hide Caption 34 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A ferry makes its way toward Alcatraz Island on November 12 as the San Francisco skyline is obscured by smoke that drifted over from the Camp Fire. Hide Caption 35 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A vehicle drives through smoke near Pulga on Sunday, November 11. Hide Caption 36 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters battle the Woolsey Fire in Malibu on November 11. Hide Caption 37 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A helicopter drops water while battling the Camp Fire near Pulga on November 11. Hide Caption 38 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters work at the Salvation Army Camp in Malibu on Saturday, November 10. Hide Caption 39 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A bag containing human remains lies on the ground on November 11 as officials continue to search for victims at a burned-out home in Paradise. Hide Caption 40 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Cathy Fallon, who stayed behind in Paradise to tend to her horses during the Camp Fire, embraces Shawna De Long, left, and April Smith, right, who brought supplies for the horses. Hide Caption 41 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters douse embers off a canyon road that cuts across the mountains to Malibu. Hide Caption 42 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A plane drops fire retardant on a burning hillside in Malibu on November 11. Hide Caption 43 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Evacuee Brian Etter and his dog Tone, who escaped the Camp Fire on foot, rest in the parking lot of a Chico church on November 11. Hide Caption 44 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Culver City firefighters watch the Woolsey Fire from a burned home in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 45 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The remains of a Los Angeles home destroyed by the Woolsey Fire are seen on November 11. Hide Caption 46 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The sun rises over the Pacific Ocean on November 11 as the Woolsey Fire burns in Malibu. Hide Caption 47 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters battle a blaze in Malibu on Saturday, November 10. Hide Caption 48 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A woman runs in Calabasas as firefighters work to control a flare-up from the Woolsey Fire on November 10. Hide Caption 49 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The Camp Fire burns November 10 in the hills near Big Bend. Hide Caption 50 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Sheriff's deputies carry a body bag with a Camp Fire victim on November 10. Hide Caption 51 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Scorched hillsides and damaged power lines are seen on November 10 along the Pacific Coast Highway in Malibu. Hide Caption 52 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Araya Cipollini cries November 10 near the remains of her family's home in Paradise. Hide Caption 53 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Los Angeles County firefighters work in Malibu Creek State Park on November 10. Hide Caption 54 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A deer looks on from a burned residence in Paradise on November 10. Hide Caption 55 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A fire truck is seen on the Pacific Coast Highway as the Woolsey Fire burns in Malibu on November 10. Hide Caption 56 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Eric England searches through a friend's vehicle in Paradise on November 10. Hide Caption 57 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Sheriff's deputies walk November 10 through a neighborhood destroyed by the Camp Fire. Hide Caption 58 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A satellite image from November 10 shows vegetation that was burned as a result of the Woolsey Fire. Hide Caption 59 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters meet in Paradise on November 10. Hide Caption 60 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Roger Bloxberg and his wife, Anne, hug on Friday, November 9, as they watch a wildfire on a Los Angeles hilltop. Hide Caption 61 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Malibu Mayor Rick Mullen, who is also a firefighter, surveys a house engulfed in flames on Friday, November 9. Hide Caption 62 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A massive smoke plume, powered by strong winds, rises above the Woolsey Fire in Malibu on November 9. Hide Caption 63 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Cathy Fallon stands near the charred remains of her Paradise home on November 9. The Camp Fire has wiped out much of the town north of Sacramento. Hide Caption 64 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A firefighter sprays down palm trees as the Woolsey Fire burns in Malibu on November 9. Hide Caption 65 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Llamas are tied to a lifeguard stand on a Malibu beach on November 9. Hide Caption 66 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Smoke is seen over the Pacific in this photo taken from a helicopter over Malibu on November 9. Hide Caption 67 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A woman in Malibu reacts to devastation on November 9. Hide Caption 68 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A row of palm trees stands as the Woolsey Fire continues to burn in Malibu on November 9. Hide Caption 69 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California From left, firefighters Cory Darrigo, Omar Velasquez and Sam Quan rest in a Westlake Village backyard after battling the Woolsey Fire all night. Hide Caption 70 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Gabi and Jonah Frank walk on the Pacific Coast Highway as the Woolsey Fire threatens their Malibu home on November 9. Hide Caption 71 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A satellite image taken by NASA's Operational Land Imager shows the Camp Fire in Northern California. Hide Caption 72 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A firefighter keeps watch as the Woolsey Fire burns a home near Malibu Lake on November 9. Hide Caption 73 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The Woolsey Fire burns in Malibu on November 9. The community is known for celebrity beachside homes. Hide Caption 74 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Doug Thomas and his dog Hanna rest November 9 while they await word if they can return to their Malibu Lake home. Hide Caption 75 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Cars destroyed by the Camp Fire sit in a used-car lot in Paradise on November 9. Hide Caption 76 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters battle flames in Thousand Oaks early on November 9. Hide Caption 77 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Evacuees rest on cots supplied by the Red Cross at a Los Angeles high-school gym on November 9. Hide Caption 78 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Fire Capt. Steve Millosovich, battling the Camp Fire in Big Bend, carries a cage of cats that fell from an evacuee's pickup. Hide Caption 79 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Smoke billows above Malibu trees in this photo posted to Instagram by Julie Ellerton. Hide Caption 80 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters push a vehicle from a garage as the Woolsey Fire burns a home in Malibu on November 9. Hide Caption 81 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Patients are evacuated from Paradise's Feather River Hospital as it burns on Thursday, November 8. Hide Caption 82 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Juanita and Wayne McLish sit on a curb November 8 after losing their house to the Camp Fire in Paradise. Hide Caption 83 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The Hill Fire burns in Thousand Oaks on November 8. Hide Caption 84 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The Woolsey Fire burns in Ventura County, where Jason Bauer told CNN his parents had just been evacuated from their home. Hide Caption 85 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California People embrace in the parking lot of a Paradise hospital as the Camp Fire engulfed it on November 8. Hide Caption 86 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The Paradise Inn burns on November 8. Hide Caption 87 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A firefighter works to extinguish a spot fire at a home in Paradise. Hide Caption 88 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Vehicles and homes burn as the Camp Fire rips through Paradise on November 8. Hide Caption 89 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Dogs roam a burned-out neighborhood in Paradise. Hide Caption 90 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Hospital staff and first responders evacuate the Feather River Hospital in Paradise on November 8. Hide Caption 91 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A fire emergency crew works to protect the Paradise Town Hall from the encroaching Camp Fire on November 8. Hide Caption 92 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A home burns as the Camp Fire rages through Paradise. Hide Caption 93 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A vintage car rests among debris in Paradise. Hide Caption 94 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Medical personnel move patients as the Feather River Hospital is evacuated in Paradise on November 8. Hide Caption 95 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Smoke fills the sky over Paradise on November 8. Paradise, located about 85 miles north of Sacramento, has 26,000 residents. Hide Caption 96 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The remains of a building are seen after being consumed by the Camp Fire. Hide Caption 97 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A firefighter monitors a burning home on November 8. Hide Caption 98 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California California Highway Patrol officers attempt to transfer a potbelly pig they rescued in Butte County on November 8. Hide Caption 99 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A Paradise home is engulfed in flames on November 8. Hide Caption 100 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters monitor a back fire while attempting to save homes in Paradise on November 8. Hide Caption 101 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Flames burn inside a van as the Camp Fire tears through Paradise on November 8. Hide Caption 102 of 102On their rig with two other firefighters, the crew pulled two hoses off the fire engine and wet down hot spots as quickly as possible, targeting the towering palm trees so they didn't drop burning embers on the rooftops."Those little embers get underneath the eaves and then that's how you start losing homes," Zielinski said.Then the firefighters turned up a cul-de-sac. A palm tree was on fire. Below it, a car was also ablaze. On the corner, the glow from the back patio of a house appeared to be getting larger. Zielinski looked over the wall into the backyard; Gonzalez tried the front door."I'm hoping that door's open because it was a nice wooden door and I didn't really want to break it down," Gonzalez recalled. "I turned the knob and the door opens and the alarm's going off inside. And just as I opened the door, the fire had broken through the living room window. The fire was rolling through the house already."Zielinski headed into the house with his hose. As he waited the few seconds it took for the engineer to get him water, the fire continued to take over."The drapes go up and now fire is like rolling across the ceiling and over my head," Zielinski recounted.He and the other firefighters were able to stop the blaze from spreading to the second floor."If we hadn't went in, taking that couple of seconds just to stop and take a look, I think we would have lost that house," Gonzalez added.'We're not used to losing homes'Bob Pondt is the owner of the home the firefighters saved. "I walked in here and I saw the puddles and I saw the footprints," Pondt said of his first time entering his house after the fire. "And I'm going, 'This could have been really bad.'"In front of the window that was broken by the fire, red marks lightly dot the back of some of the legs on the Pondts' dining chairs. Pondt says he isn't going to remove them because they are a reminder of just how lucky he and his family were."God put these guys in a position where they dedicated their lives protecting people and property," Pondt said, noting that the firefighters were there when he and his family needed them. "It was men -- flesh and blood -- who come and help the community and love what they do.""Here in Ventura County, we're not used to losing homes," Gonzalez said. "And then to have the shooting and then go to the fire the next day and just continue to lose houses -- it's been tough."With the community on their mind, Gonzalez and Zielinski kept busy with several fires during roughly the next two weeks, not getting any real sleep until about the third or fourth day once resources started to arrive from other agencies.All the while, the men rode a wave of emotions as they learned more about the Borderline shooting victims, their funerals and fundraisers for their surviving families."The fires almost kind of overshadowed it," Zielinski said of the shooting. "It all seemed like a few days later where Borderline was an afterthought."For both Gonzalez and Zielinski, Ventura County isn't just where they work but also where they live."Thousand Oaks has always ranked as one of the safest cities in the nation," Zielinski said. "This is a good, safe community, open."Gonzalez added that the Borderline shooting changed how they move through the world."For that to happen here, you think it could happen anywhere now. It's not the same when you go out anymore," Gonzalez said. "I know that when I go out from now on, I check my surroundings. Even at a restaurant, you watch people as they come through the door. I try not to sit with my back toward the door because, who knows? This could probably happen again."Several months later, Gonzalez and Zielinski both returned to Borderline for the first time since the shooting. In front of the boarded-up entrance, a memorial to all of the people who lost their lives overflows down the pathway -- a mosaic of pictures, flowers, and art detailed with the victims' names.Ventura County Firefighter Damon Zielinski visits the memorial outside of the Borderline Bar & Grill.Zielinski walked up close to the memorial to pay his respects; Gonzalez stands a few feet back, with his arms crossed and tears in his eyes.Both know people continue to add to the memorial but, for different reasons, neither has driven up to see it."I think it's one of those things where maybe part of me kind of wants to just always remember the good times that I had there with friends and not think of the place now as kind of a place of sadness, tragedy," admitted Zielinski.For Gonzalez, the memories are still very visceral. "Driving through there, the memories come back," he shared. "The gunshots, you know, just a lot of the chaos. It's hard."