If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Check out the building in Barcelona that finally got its building permit -- after 137 years .Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. WashingtonSo, was the immigration agreement reached with Mexico to avoid tariffs on Mexican imports a big deal or a big nothingburger ? President Trump said it's a huge deal because Mexico will now make a more robust effort to stem the flow of migrants toward the US. But critics accused the President of once again taking a victory lap for fixing a crisis he helped create. More fuel was thrown on the fire over the weekend when The New York Times reported that most of what was in Friday's deal were things Mexico had already agreed to do in previous immigration talks.Fareed's Take: Trump is destroying years of work in MexicoFareed's Take: Trump is destroying years of work in Mexico 04:23Fareed's Take: Trump is destroying years of work in Mexico2. Hong Kong protestsMore than a million people jammed the streets of Hong Kong yesterday to protest a controversial extradition bill that would let Chinese authorities extradite fugitives from the city. This appeared to be the largest demonstration there since Hong Kong was handed back to China in 1997. Critics fear the bill will make anyone in Hong Kong vulnerable to being grabbed and sent to mainland China for political reasons. They also say it undermines Hong Kong's semi-autonomous legal system. Chinese officials say the bill would merely plug some loopholes in the country's extradition law.JUST WATCHED Organizers say 1 million marched in Hong Kong Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Organizers say 1 million marched in Hong Kong 02:073. SudanThe Sudanese capital of Khartoum, home to 2 million people, was virtually shut down yesterday amid a mass general strike. (Sunday was the first day of the country's Islamic working week.) Opposition groups had called for civil disobedience after 118 people died in last week's violent military crackdown on government protesters. Uncertainty and violence have plagued Sudan since April, when longtime President Omar al-Bashir was ousted. Demonstrators had held sit-ins and other protests to oppose the interim military council that has ruled the country since the coup against Bashir.JUST WATCHED At least 100 dead after army attack on Sudan protest camp Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH At least 100 dead after army attack on Sudan protest camp 01:384. United Technologies and RaytheonA blockbuster aerospace marriage is one of the biggest corporate mergers of the year . United Technologies and Raytheon announced they have agreed to merge in an all-stock deal. The two companies call it a "merger of equals." The new company, to be called Raytheon Technologies Corporation, will have annual revenue of about $74 billion. Raytheon makes missile defense systems and cybersecurity products. United Technologies makes things like jet engines and elevators.JUST WATCHED The rush for vertical mergers, explained Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The rush for vertical mergers, explained 02:175. Tony AwardsThe Tony Awards may not generate the media hyperventilating usually reserved for the Oscars, Grammys or Emmys, but they're just as important -- and entertaining. Host James Corden did the splits -- yes, you read that right -- during a boisterous opening number that highlighted the importance of Broadway in the era of binge-watching. The night's big winner was "Hadestown," which won Best Musical, one of its eight wins. "The Ferryman" was named Best Play. Click here to see the full list of winners and the best photos from the nightJUST WATCHED James Corden says he's nervous about hosting Tony Awards Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH James Corden says he's nervous about hosting Tony Awards 03:34THIS JUST IN ...David Ortiz shotFormer Boston Red Sox star David Ortiz, known as "Big Papi," is in stable condition after being shot in the back by a motorcyclist in the Dominican Republic.JUST WATCHED David Ortiz shot in the Dominican Republic Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH David Ortiz shot in the Dominican Republic 00:49BREAKFAST BROWSEAbove and beyondWhile doing a welfare check on an elderly woman, a Minnesota police officer noticed her lawn needed to be cut. So, he mowed it.Pool party?If you're in Pennsylvania, you need to check out the cool new pool that's just opened to the public. It's at the lieutenant governor's house.Wedded blissCongrats to Chris Pratt and Katherine Schwarzenegger . The "Guardians of the Galaxy" star married the author (who's also the daughter of "The Terminator") in California.JUST WATCHED How Chris Pratt announced engagement Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Chris Pratt announced engagement 00:30Rainbow tailgateA Pride Month message of acceptance from rural Oklahoma touched people the world over.Game onAttention gamers. Microsoft is putting out a new Xbox , nicknamed Project Scarlett, by the end of the year.HAPPENING LATERMore (and less) MuellerThe House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing today on the Mueller report -- without former special counsel Robert Mueller. But noted Watergate figure John Dean, a CNN contributor, is set to be there.JUST WATCHED Did Mueller's TV moment change anything? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Did Mueller's TV moment change anything? 04:49TODAY'S NUMBER$11 millionThe amount awarded to an Ohio bakery in its libel lawsuit against Oberlin College . The bakery said school officials wrongfully accused it of racially profiling black students.TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Rain moving into the Norhteast as a heat wave builds across the West Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rain moving into the Norhteast as a heat wave builds across the West 01:36AND FINALLYTrained human