If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Today the world pauses to remember D-Day , the massive military invasion of France 75 years ago that broke the Nazis' grip on Europe and turned the tide of World War II.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. D-Day commemorationPresident Trump, along with first lady Melania Trump, has joined other world leaders in northern France to mark the 75th anniversary of the D-Day invasion , when Allied forces landed on the beaches of Normandy to push Nazi forces from France in the largest amphibious assault ever launched. Joining the President and the other world leaders will be 173 US World War II veterans, including 65 who were there on D-Day. Earlier, UK Prime Minister Theresa May and French President Emmanuel Macron laid the cornerstone for a memorial to French-British unity. Trump will make remarks later at the Normandy American Cemetery. Click here to watch the ceremonies liveCelebrations for Bastille Day in Courseulles, on July 14, 1944. British and American troops join local inhabitants at the town's war memorial. Courseulles was one of the first towns to be liberated by the Allies.Celebrations for Bastille Day in Courseulles, on July 14, 1944. British and American troops join local inhabitants at the town's war memorial. Courseulles was one of the first towns to be liberated by the Allies.The Bagg family hang out their washing in Hill Lane, Southampton on June 5, 1944. Behind them, an American field howitzer unit waits before moving to the docks to embark for Normandy.The Bagg family hang out their washing in Hill Lane, Southampton on June 5, 1944. Behind them, an American field howitzer unit waits before moving to the docks to embark for Normandy.Airborne troops admire the graffiti chalked on the side of their glider as they prepare to fly out as part of the second drop on Normandy, on the night of June 6, 1944.Airborne troops admire the graffiti chalked on the side of their glider as they prepare to fly out as part of the second drop on Normandy, on the night of June 6, 1944.Troops of 9th Canadian Infantry Brigade disembarking with bicycles onto 'Nan White' beach, Juno sector, at Bernieres-sur-Mer shortly before midday on June 6.Troops of 9th Canadian Infantry Brigade disembarking with bicycles onto 'Nan White' beach, Juno sector, at Bernieres-sur-Mer shortly before midday on June 6.A B-17G of the 100th Bomb Group USAAF bombing beach defenses near Boulogne as part of the D-Day deception plan, on June 5, 1944.A B-17G of the 100th Bomb Group USAAF bombing beach defenses near Boulogne as part of the D-Day deception plan, on June 5, 1944.German prisoners are escorted along one of the Gold area beaches on D-Day.German prisoners are escorted along one of the Gold area beaches on D-Day.2. US and MexicoJUST WATCHED Autoworkers split on Trump's Mexico tariff strategy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Autoworkers split on Trump's Mexico tariff strategy 02:023. Saudi ArabiaSaudi Arabia has seriously upgraded its ballistic missile program , thanks to a big assist from China. CNN, in exclusive reporting, learned about this from three sources with direct knowledge of the matter. Why is this important? The US has worked for decades to limit the proliferation of missiles in the Middle East. But the revelation that the Chinese are supplying the Saudis with new weaponry raises concerns of a possible arms race, with Saudi Arabia and Iran competing to dominate the region.JUST WATCHED Sources: WH withheld intel on Saudi missile program Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sources: WH withheld intel on Saudi missile program 03:424. Fiat Chrysler and RenaultA proposed merger that could have reshaped the global auto industry has been called off. Fiat Chrysler said it has pulled its proposal to merge with French car maker Renault. Fiat Chrysler blamed politics, saying the "political conditions in France do not currently exist for such a combination to proceed successfully." The French government owns 15% of Renault and had previously indicated it would only support the merger if the merged company protected French jobs and auto plants. The deal would have created the third-largest automaker in the world.JUST WATCHED EU safety laws propose speed limit controls Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH EU safety laws propose speed limit controls 06:285. Los AngelesWhen you think of LA, you think of Hollywood stars, fantastic weather and beautiful beaches. But you should probably think of something else: chronic homelessness. The new count from the Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority is stunning . There are about 59,000 people living on the streets of Los Angeles County, a 12% increase over last year; and there are around 36,300 homeless people in the city of Los Angeles, a 16% percent increase. Tent cities have popped up all over Los Angeles, well beyond downtown's Skid Row, where folks without a steady place to stay have historically been concentrated. Mayor Eric Garcetti said the city will invest more resources to address the problem, including $42 million for public health concerns and street-based services.JUST WATCHED Garcetti responds to criticism on LA homeless problem (October) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Garcetti responds to criticism on LA homeless problem (October) 01:42BREAKFAST BROWSE'Doo doo doo doo doo doo ...'Nickelodeon is turning "Baby Shark" into an animated TV series. And now that song is stuck in your head . We apologize.JUST WATCHED Video goes viral of toddler frustrated with Alexa Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video goes viral of toddler frustrated with Alexa 01:06Double dateWant to hang out with George and Amal Clooney at their home in Italy? Of course! And it's all in the name of charity.On her honorIf you're a senior citizen in Arlington, Virginia, and need help with smartphones, don't go to a techno shop for help. Go find a Girl Scout.Pride powerWhat's the best way to get a photo of yourself wearing a rainbow turban to go viral? Have Barack Obama retweet it.Fun while it lastedTracy Morgan bought a $2 million car and drove it from the dealership. Thirty minutes later, it was sideswiped by a Honda . (No one got hurt.)TODAY'S NUMBER46The number of ice cream trucks seized in New York City in what authorities dubbed "Operation Meltdown"JUST WATCHED Here's why you can't stop eating ice cream Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's why you can't stop eating ice cream 01:42TODAY'S WEATHERSevere flooding threatens New Orleans as the Southeast finally gets rainAND FINALLYBolt ya rocket?