If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Duke's Zion Williamson was the No. 1 pick in last night's NBA draft , and the first thing he did was thank his mom.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. US and IranPresident Trump ordered military strikes against Iran and then abruptly called them off at the last minute. The operation was in its initial stages, with ships in position and planes in the air, when the order came to stand down, The New York Times reported. It's not clear why the President changed his mind or whether the attacks may still happen. Tensions with Iran escalated after the Iranians shot down a US drone . Iran policy hardliners in the administration and some GOP lawmakers have pushed for a military response, but Democrats have warned Trump not to take actions that could lead to the start of a war.Trump says he believes drone being shot down was a mistake; Iran says it wasn'tTrump says he believes drone being shot down was a mistake; Iran says it wasn't 05:20Trump says he believes drone being shot down was a mistake; Iran says it wasn't2. US arms salesSome Republican senators joined their Democratic colleagues in voting to block $8.1 billion in arms sales to Gulf nations -- including Saudi Arabia and the UAE. The bipartisan lawmakers wanted to express their continued displeasure with how the Trump administration has handled its response to the killing of Jamal Khashoggi , a journalist and critic of the Saudi regime. The administration last month bypassed Congress on the arms sales by declaring an emergency. Despite the Senate vote, it looks like the sales will happen. Though the measure passed, it fell far short of the two-thirds support needed to override an expected veto from the President.JUST WATCHED Sasse: Ending arm sales should be on the table (October) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sasse: Ending arm sales should be on the table (October) 01:183. Facebook and policeSeventy-two police officers in Philadelphia have been pulled off the streets and put on administrative duty after a watchdog group published screenshots of what it says are offensive comments the law enforcement officers posted on Facebook. The online database from the Plain View Project contains images of more than 5,000 social media posts and comments by more than 3,500 current and former police officers in eight US jurisdictions, the group says. CNN has not independently confirmed that the posts were made by officers. Police departments in Dallas, St. Louis and Lake County, Florida, are also investigating allegations their officers posted hateful or racist remarks.JUST WATCHED Study finds police officers' hateful social media posts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Study finds police officers' hateful social media posts 03:014. India water crisisA serious water crisis has developed in Chennai, India's sixth largest city. Four reservoirs that supply the city have nearly run dry, and millions of people are running out of usable water . Chennai is going through a major drought and only yesterday got its first major rainfall of the year. Government officials have resorted to trucking water into the city's neighborhoods. In Coimbatore, another southern Indian city dealing with water scarcity, at least 550 people were arrested during a protest over the shortages. The situation reflects an ongoing nationwide crisis as a fatal heat wave sweeps across India, and cities from Mumbai to Delhi face dwindling water supplies.JUST WATCHED Millions of people are running out of water in this city Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Millions of people are running out of water in this city 01:565. SudanIs Sudan's protest movement over? It took a big hit after a paramilitary unit opened fire on demonstrators on June 3 in the capital city of Khartoum, killing at least 118 people. But many who were there say the horrors of that day were much worse. The number of dead is much higher, the demonstrators say, and troops allegedly raped female protesters in an attempt to break the movement. Women have been a huge part of the protests -- accounting for up to 70% of demonstrators, by some estimates -- and many have been threatened with sexual violenceProtesters still want a peaceful transition of power after President Omar al-Bashir was removed from power in an April coup. But a Transitional Military Council set up after al-Bashir's removal vows to run the country for a couple years. There have been no demonstrations in the capital since the crackdown, but a couple hundred people protested Wednesday in Omdurman, the country's second-largest city.JUST WATCHED Protests growing in Sudan against the military council Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Protests growing in Sudan against the military council 03:55BREAKFAST BROWSEGone but not forgottenWhen the show "Riverdale" returns this fall, it won't forget about Luke Perry. He'll be honored in the season premiereJUST WATCHED Luke Perry's most memorable roles Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Luke Perry's most memorable roles 01:25Off-the-field problemsCarrie Underwood, NBC and the NFL have all been sued by some songwriters who claim the "Sunday Night Football" song was plagiarized.JUST WATCHED Singer accuses Carrie Underwood of stealing song Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Singer accuses Carrie Underwood of stealing song 01:40Split seasonMajor League Baseball could be headed back to Montreal. Sort of. The Tampa Bay Rays may split their home games between Canada and Florida.Have it all to yourselfIf you think Peru's Machu Picchu is simply overrun with tourists, you might want to check out Colombia's "Lost City," which hardly anyone visitsPhotos: Hiking Colombia's Ciudad Perdida Ciudad Perdida: This Colombian site known as "The Lost City" was founded around 800 CE, some 650 years earlier than Machu Picchu. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Hiking Colombia's Ciudad Perdida Nearby: The closest city to Ciudad Perdida is Santa Marta, and the closest major airport Barranquilla. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Hiking Colombia's Ciudad Perdida Getting there: Currently, the only way to visit Ciudad Perdida is via a not-for-beginners multiday hike. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Hiking Colombia's Ciudad Perdida In the thick of it: Deep in the Colombian jungle, the entrance can only be accessed by a climb up (and then back down) some 1,200 stone steps. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Hiking Colombia's Ciudad Perdida Going deep: Ciudad Perdida consists of a series of 169 terraces carved into the mountainside, a net of tiled roads and several small circular plazas. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Hiking Colombia's Ciudad Perdida On the way: There's only one trail to the site, meaning visitors must go back the same way they arrived. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Hiking Colombia's Ciudad Perdida Lost and found: Historians believe that the city was abandoned around the time of the Spanish arrival and conquest. It was rediscovered in the 1970s. Hide Caption 7 of 7'It was all a dream ...'You can now rent the childhood home of the late rapper Notorious B.I.G. And like all things in Brooklyn these days, there have been some upgrades.TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeThis person was named the best real-life hero at the MTV Movie & TV Awards.A. Ruth Bader GinsburgB. Chris EvansC. Sonia SotomayorD. Megan RapinoePlay " Total Recall ," CNN's weekly news quiz, to see if your answer is correct.TODAY'S QUOTE"They all left and are in Idaho. I don't have a way of contacting him."Peggie Boquist, the wife of Oregon GOP state Sen. Brian Boquist. He's one of a group of Oregon Republican lawmakers who left the state to block the legislature's work on a cap-and-trade climate bill. Oregon Gov. Kate Brown, a Democrat, has , the wife of Oregon GOP state Sen. Brian Boquist. He's one of a group of Oregon Republican lawmakers who left the state to block the legislature's work on a cap-and-trade climate bill. Oregon Gov. Kate Brown, a Democrat, has ordered the state police to bring them back to the capital.JUST WATCHED Governor slams state GOP for not showing up to debate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Governor slams state GOP for not showing up to debate 01:05TODAY'S NUMBER20,000+The number of people who signed a petition started by a Christian organization calling for Netflix to pull the show "Good Omens." But the show, about an angel and a demon teaming up to save the world, streams on Amazon Prime.JUST WATCHED How Netflix is everything to everyone Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Netflix is everything to everyone 02:49TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED First day of summer brings severe storms to many Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH First day of summer brings severe storms to many 01:34AND FINALLYHe's a hugger