If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Want to see the world's tallest sandcastle? It's almost 60 feet tall and sits on the shores of the Baltic Sea in Germany.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Mexico and tariffsTime is running short for the US and Mexico to strike a deal to avoid tariffs on Mexican imports. Officials from both countries negotiated yesterday into the evening, but no deal has been reached yet. Talks resume today. President Trump threatened to impose a 5% tariff on Mexican imports starting Monday if Mexico doesn't do more to stem the tide of Central American migrants that end up on the southern US border. For that to happen, the President must sign an executive order today. American importers have warned the White House and Congress that tariffs could unleash a logistical nightmareKudlow in 2015: 25% tariffs on Mexico would pose 'incalculable damage' to U.S. economyKudlow in 2015: 25% tariffs on Mexico would pose 'incalculable damage' to U.S. economy 04:28Kudlow in 2015: 25% tariffs on Mexico would pose 'incalculable damage' to U.S. economy2. Campaign 2020Well, that was fast. Just a day after reaffirming his support for the Hyde Amendment, which blocks federal funds for being used for most abortions, Democratic front-runner Joe Biden changed his tune . "If I believe health care is a right, as I do, I can no longer support an amendment that makes that right dependent on someone's ZIP code," Biden said last night during a fundraiser in Atlanta. Biden flipped his script after getting pummeled by his 2020 rivals and groups like Planned Parenthood and NARAL Pro-Choice America. Before he made the announcement, CNN political commentator S.E. Cupp had wondered what the point of Biden's candidacy would be if he caved on this issue.JUST WATCHED Biden reverses course to support repeal of Hyde Amendment Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Biden reverses course to support repeal of Hyde Amendment 02:003. Saudi ArabiaThe person thought to be Saudi Arabia's youngest political prisoner is just 18 years old. He's on trial on terrorism charges, and if he's convicted, he faces the death penalty , imposed in the harshest way. Some of the crimes Murtaja Qureiris is accused of committing happened when he was 10, but that doesn't matter in his country. As a boy, Qureiris participated in Arab Spring protests , and he was arrested at 13. He previously confessed to the charges but now says he did so under duress and denies them. Saudi Arabia has one of the highest execution rates in the world and has frequently been criticized by rights groups for executing people who were minors at the time of the crimes.JUST WATCHED Another young Saudi protester faces execution Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Another young Saudi protester faces execution 03:394. RobocallsDid the FCC just save us all from the scourge of robocalls? Maybe. Agency officials voted to give wireless carriers the OK to block unwanted robocalls automatically for customers. We don't have to tell you what a problem these calls are. They interrupt our dinners, and lots of them are used to try to scam us. Americans get about 5 billion robocalls a month, one industry estimate says. Now, it's up to the wireless carriers to decide if they want to do this as their default (why wouldn't they?), but there are concerns that some may charge customers to block the calls.JUST WATCHED Why John Oliver is spamming the FCC with robocalls Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why John Oliver is spamming the FCC with robocalls 01:165. Dr. JohnAn important part of the melodic gumbo that is New Orleans' music scene is the magic of Dr. John. The six-time Grammy winner and Rock & Roll Hall of Fame member died of a heart attack at the age of 77. Dr. John, whose real name was Malcolm John Rebennack Jr., was a New Orleans native, and his music was just as vibrant as his hometown. He started out as a songwriter and guitarist in the 1950s before playing with Aretha Franklin and the Rolling Stones. His biggest hit was "Right Place Wrong Time," which was a Top 10 tune in 1973. He won his last Grammy in 2012, for his blues album, "Locked Down."JUST WATCHED See what made Dr. John a music legend Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See what made Dr. John a music legend 01:03THIS JUST IN ...Terror plot foiled?A man has been arrested after authorities said he was trying to buy grenades to be used in an attack on New York's Time Square. The suspect reportedly wanted to throw explosives at people.BREAKFAST BROWSEFind another waySo, you're an actor and you want to get Tyler Perry's attention. Don't go out and spend money on billboards , like this woman did.Maybe he should buy a lottery ticketThe small museum in Canada had been trying to open an old safe since the '70s. A tourist's lucky guess cracked the code on his first try.JUST WATCHED Tourist cracks code to decades-old museum safe Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tourist cracks code to decades-old museum safe 01:00To infinity and beyondWant to swim in the world's first infinity pool with breathtaking 360-degree views and a staircase that rises out of the waters? Head to London.Too close for comfortAn asteroid the size of a football field is speeding towards Earth , but it'll (probably) miss us by just this much.TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeSome people are refusing to do this because of climate change.A. Eat beefB. Have kidsC. DriveD. Drink waterPlay "Total Recall," CNN's weekly news quiz , to see if your answer is correct.TODAY'S QUOTE"With all my hair I got so much to lose, like my wig or my shoes."Dolly Parton, explaining to The New York Times why she's , explaining to The New York Times why she's never ridden any rides at her Dollywood theme parkJUST WATCHED Dolly Parton sings while reading to children Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dolly Parton sings while reading to children 00:55TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Heavy rain seeks to end southeastern drought Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Heavy rain seeks to end southeastern drought 01:38AND FINALLYRoad warriors