If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) The next time you fly into Louisville, Kentucky, you'll be greeted by a familiar face : Muhammad Ali.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. House Judiciary CommitteeThe House Judiciary Committee is having itself quite the week. The committee held a hearing yesterday on the Mueller report (without former special counsel Robert Mueller). Watergate figure (and CNN contributor) John Dean testified at the hearing, and he compared President Trump's behavior to President Nixon's . He also said the report gave Congress "a road map" to impeachment. Meanwhile, Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerry Nadler said he's struck a deal with the Justice Department that will allow Congress to get its hands on some documents from the Mueller report related to obstruction of justice . That will head off, for now, a court showdown between House Dems and the Justice Department.Meantime, a Judiciary subcommittee holds a hearing today on Big Tech and how it's affecting and influencing the news media . The hearing is part of an effort by newspapers and online publishers to get an antitrust exemption, which would allow them to band together and negotiate with the Googles and Facebooks of the world.2. Helicopter crashJUST WATCHED Helicopter crash on top of NYC building kills 1 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Helicopter crash on top of NYC building kills 1 01:363. Churches and sex abuseThe nation's two largest religious groups are holding meetings this week, and both will be talking about the same thing : sexual abuse by clergy. The US Conference of Catholic Bishops starts a four-day spring meeting today in Baltimore, while the Southern Baptist Convention convenes in Birmingham, Alabama. Both denominations are reeling after internal investigations and journalistic exposés revealed scandals that harmed their members and stained their reputations. The Catholics are expected to focus on accountability for bishops, while the Baptists want to fight an attitude of "casual indifference" that's allowed sexual abuse to continue.JUST WATCHED Sexual abuse in the Catholic Church is a global crisis Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sexual abuse in the Catholic Church is a global crisis 03:054. CanadaAdd Canada to the growing number of countries that are banning plastic. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said the country will ban single-use plastic items by 2021 . So, that means no more plastic bags, straws, cutlery or stirring sticks. The United Kingdom plans to ban such plastics next year, and the European Parliament passed its own single-use plastic ban back in March. There is growing concern about the amount of plastic that's ending up in the world's oceans, with an estimated 1 million birds and more than 100,000 sea mammals worldwide injured or killed when they mistake plastic for food.JUST WATCHED Plastic pollution is killing these animals Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Plastic pollution is killing these animals 01:225. David OrtizJUST WATCHED Surveillance video shows David Ortiz being shot Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Surveillance video shows David Ortiz being shot 02:11BREAKFAST BROWSEBattle of the bandsForget Raptors vs. Warriors. The real action at the NBA Finals is the battle of the National Anthems between the US and Canada.Welcome to WalmartFree SAT prep. Help with college tuition. Walmart is pulling out all the stops to recruit high school students to work for them.JUST WATCHED Why Walmart wants robots, not workers, stocking shelves Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Walmart wants robots, not workers, stocking shelves 01:17Wait, what?Justin Bieber challenged Tom Cruise to a fight , and, well, we just don't know what to think about it.World historyThe match was a draw, but Argentina doesn't care because the country's soccer team scored its first point -- ever -- at the Women's World Cup.JUST WATCHED In Her Shoes: A footballer's life Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH In Her Shoes: A footballer's life 08:00TODAY'S QUOTE"You're breathtaking!"Peter Sark to Keanu Reeves, after the YouTuberto Keanu Reeves, after the actor popped up at the Electronic Entertainment Expo, known as E3, in Los AngelesTODAY'S NUMBERfewer than 100,000The number of travelers hit in a data breach of US Customs and Border Protection. Images of people and license plates collected by CBP were stolen in a cyberattackJUST WATCHED You can use your face as ID for international flights Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH You can use your face as ID for international flights 01:41TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Temperatures cool for the East Coast as a heat wave hits the West Coast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Temperatures cool for the East Coast as a heat wave hits the West Coast 01:29AND FINALLYGood or baaaaaaad?