(CNN) Here is a look at the Stanley Cup, the annual championship of the National Hockey League.The Montreal Canadiens have won the Stanley Cup a record 24 times.The Cup:a Canadian governor general appointed by Queen Victoria. Lord Stanley promoted amateur hockey competitions in Canada during the 19th century. The trophy is named after Lord Stanley of Preston, a Canadian governor general appointed by Queen Victoria. Lord Stanley promoted amateur hockey competitions in Canada during the 19th century.In 1892, he donated a trophy that was unveiled during a dinner honoring the Ottawa Hockey Club.The trophy was originally called the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup.The names of every player on the winning team are etched onto a tier of the trophy.Photos: Meet Phil Pritchard: 'The Keeper of the Cup' Photos: Meet Phil Pritchard: 'The Keeper of the Cup' Days after the Washington Capitals won the Stanley Cup, they shared the joy and the trophy with their cross-town neighbors -- Major League Baseball's Washington Nationals. Hide Caption 1 of 5 Photos: Meet Phil Pritchard: 'The Keeper of the Cup' Washington Capitals forward Chandler Stephenson brought the Stanley Cup to the Humboldt Broncos memorial site in Saskatchewan, Canada. Hide Caption 2 of 5 Photos: Meet Phil Pritchard: 'The Keeper of the Cup' Washington Capitals forward Andre Burakovsky poses in front of the famed 16-kilometer-long Öresund Bridge which links Copenhagen, Denmark and Malmö, Sweden. Hide Caption 3 of 5 Photos: Meet Phil Pritchard: 'The Keeper of the Cup' Goaltender Philipp Grubauer -- who has since been traded to the Colorado Avalanche -- brought the Stanley Cup to Rosenheim, Germany. Here he shares a moment with a Bavarian bovine. Hide Caption 4 of 5 Photos: Meet Phil Pritchard: 'The Keeper of the Cup' Capitals forward Lars Eller -- who scored the championship-clinching goal in Game 5 of the Finals -- brought the trophy to Denmark for the first time in history. Hide Caption 5 of 5Timeline:1893 - The Montreal Hockey Club from the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association wins the first Stanley Cup.1900s-1910s - As amateur clubs give way to professional teams, the National Hockey Association, a precursor to the NHL, begins overseeing a series of championship games. NHA teams compete against teams affiliated with the Pacific Coast Hockey Association and the winner of the series gets the Stanley Cup. American teams start participating in the tournament.1917 - The National Hockey League is formed, and the Seattle Metropolitans become the first US team to win the cup.1919 - The Stanley Cup finals are canceled because of the Spanish flu pandemic.1963 - A redesigned cup is introduced, built to be sturdier than the original.1993 - A replica is produced to be displayed in the Hockey Hall of Fame in Toronto.