If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) If you've been pining for a change of scenery, you're in luck: Astronomers have found two planets that meet pretty much every requirement for supporting life.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. US and IranIran claims to have taken down a US military drone. The country's elite Revolutionary Guards say the "spy drone" was shot down after it entered Iranian airspace near the Strait of Hormuz. However, no American aircraft were operating today in Iranian airspace, a spokesman for US Central Command says. Tensions between the two countries are extremely high right now. The US blames Iran for recent attacks on tankers in the Gulf of Oman and will send 1,000 more troops to the Middle East in response to Iran's "hostile behavior"; Iran denies those accusations.2. China and North KoreaJUST WATCHED Kim Jong Un welcomes Chinese President Xi Jinping Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kim Jong Un welcomes Chinese President Xi Jinping 02:273. David Ortiz shootingDavid Ortiz was not the intended target in the shooting that wounded him. A prosecutor yesterday announced this unexpected turn in the case. The real target was Sixto David Fernandez, a friend of Ortiz who was at a table with the former Red Sox slugger at a patio bar in Santo Domingo. The suspected gunman had only a blurry photo of Fernandez, who was wearing similar clothing to Ortiz that night. The prosecutor said the lighting made the shooter confuse one for the other. The alleged mastermind of the attack has been ID'd, as well. Police say it is Victor Hugo Gomez, a cousin of Fernandez who ordered the alleged hit because he suspected Fernandez turned him in for crimes in 2011. Meantime, Ortiz's condition was upgraded to good at a Boston hospital.JUST WATCHED Prosecutors: David Ortiz was not the target of the attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Prosecutors: David Ortiz was not the target of the attack 02:114. RefugeesCanada took in more refugees last year than the United States. Canada accepted 28,100 refugees, more than any other nation, a UN report says . The US resettled 22,900 refugees, the second-most. The US has cut down the number of refugees it takes in since President Trump's election. In Trump's first year in office, the US formally resettled 33,400 refugees -- a 65% drop from the prior year. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has taken the opposite view, embracing a policy of open immigration and resettling more refugees. And today is World Refugee Day , a day to learn more about and support refugees.JUST WATCHED A cup of coffee is helping refugees join the American dream Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A cup of coffee is helping refugees join the American dream 01:125. YouTubeYouTube, under fire for how it handles children's videos, is mulling some changes . The video platform is considering stopping videos from playing automatically after a previous video finishes. YouTube is also thinking about moving all kids' videos off the main platform and onto YouTube Kids, a standalone app with tighter controls on content (though that would be a drastic step and probably won't happen, a person familiar with the matter said). The Federal Trade Commission is investigating YouTube's handling of kids' videos, and the probe is reportedly close to completion.JUST WATCHED Transgender youth turn to YouTube for a safe space Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Transgender youth turn to YouTube for a safe space 06:20TODAY'S QUOTES"There's not a racist bone in my body."JUST WATCHED Biden blasted for comments on segregationist senators Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Biden blasted for comments on segregationist senators 01:55"I could see how crews could have run out of time before they could have solved the problems."Chesley "Sully" Sullenberger, telling a House committee he "Miracle on the Hudson" pilot, telling a House committee he understands how flight crews would have struggled during the recent Boeing 737 Max crashes. Sullenberger spent time in a simulator running recreations of the doomed flights.JUST WATCHED Sullenberger can see why pilots struggled with 737 Max Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sullenberger can see why pilots struggled with 737 Max 02:15BREAKFAST BROWSEDoggone itDo Fido's " puppy dog eyes " get you every time? You can thank evolution for that masterful manipulation move.Generous gesture"Jeopardy!" champ James Holzhauer donated some of his winnings from the show to a Chicago cancer walk in Alex Trebek's name.Lost and foundWhat do you do when you find a class ring that's been missing for almost six decades? Track down the owner and return it, of course.JUST WATCHED Three initials led treasure hunter to owner of lost ring Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Three initials led treasure hunter to owner of lost ring 00:59Another day in HollywoodWonderful wordsAmerica has a new poet laureate. Her name is Joy Harjo, and she's the first Native American to hold the title.TODAY'S NUMBER$600,000The ransom Riviera Beach, Florida, is paying -- in Bitcoins -- to a hacker who weeks ago took over its computer systemsJUST WATCHED How to protect yourself from hackers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How to protect yourself from hackers 02:18HAPPENING LATERPowerful playersJUST WATCHED At World Cup, US women's team fights for more than gold Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH At World Cup, US women's team fights for more than gold 03:37TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe weather and flooding impacting the eastern US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe weather and flooding impacting the eastern US 01:28AND FINALLYSeeing with sound