Get '5 things' in your inbox If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN)Get Up to Speed and Out the Door. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Looking for the most "Instagrammable" spots in the nation? Well, as they used to say, there's an app for that. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. US and IranNew US sanctions on Iran are set to be issued today , according to a weekend tweet from President Trump. The President didn't offer up any details on the sanctions, but he did say he believes more sanctions will force Iran to the bargaining table with the US. The world is also still waiting to see what kind of retaliation, if any, the US will dish out after Iran shot down a US military drone last week. Trump ordered a retaliatory strike on Iran late last week, only to call it off at the last minuteJUST WATCHED Trump: Let's make Iran great again Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: Let's make Iran great again 00:582. Campaign 2020Pete Buttigieg isn't just a 2020 presidential candidate. He's also the mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and he had to focus on his day job over the weekend. Buttigieg pulled himself off the campaign trail to focus on the fatal shooting of a black man by South Bend police. The shooting has inflamed already simmering racial tensions in the city. Buttigieg took part in an emotional town hall last night to talk about the shooting, where angry residents let him have it. He kept his emotions in check (though he was frustrated about being interrupted). He also said he would ask the Justice Department to conduct an investigation into the shooting. How Buttigieg handles this racially-charged incident is important because lack of support from black voters is one of the drags on his campaign right now.JUST WATCHED Tense exchange from Buttigieg's South Bend town hall Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tense exchange from Buttigieg's South Bend town hall 02:48