If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) It's International Women's Day ! Kick the day off with inspiring quotes from 16 powerful women. Or visit the bakery in India that helps women rise above poverty and abuse . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Paul ManafortPaul Manafort was sentenced to nearly four years in prison on bank fraud and tax evasion convictions. That sentence is a lot shorter than prosecutors wanted -- they were hoping for up to 25 years -- and sent shockwaves through the political world. The federal judge who sentenced him also made a point to say Manafort, Donald Trump's ex-campaign chairman, was "not before the court for anything having to do with colluding with the Russian government." President Trump will probably happily tweet about that today. Democrats ripped the sentence as inadequate . Legal experts shared examples of people who got a lot more time for doing less than what Manafort did. But this story isn't over. Manafort faces a different judge next week to be sentenced on conspiracy and witness tampering convictions, which could still yield substantial prison time.2. PoliticsThe House passed a resolution that condemns hate and intolerance , including anti-Semitism and anti-Muslim discrimination. Democrats hope this puts an end to the controversy swirling around freshman Rep. Ilhan Omar's comments related to Israel. Before the vote, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she didn't think Omar's comments were "intended in any anti-Semitic way" and Omar may not have understood "the full weight" of how her remarks were interpreted. GOP Rep. Liz Cheney said the resolution was a "sham" put forth by Democrats who didn't want to call out one of their own.JUST WATCHED House passes resolution condemning anti-Semitism Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH House passes resolution condemning anti-Semitism 01:57Meanwhile, it looks like Stormy Daniels' lawsuit against President Trump is over. A federal judge tossed out her suit , which sought to invalidate a $130,000 hush money agreement, because the suit "lacks subject matter jurisdiction." The judge remanded the case back to where it was first filed. Daniels, an adult film star, says she and Trump had an affair in 2006, which Trump denies.3. ChinaChina's economy looks a lot more wobbly lately. The latest sign: Chinese exports plunged 21% in February, compared with a year earlier. That's the weakest performance in three years, and it was a lot worse than economists had predicted. This is partly due to the trade war with the US, but that's not the only worry for the Chinese. The export slump indicates "global demand is cooling," one economist says. The International Monetary Fund expects global economic growth to decline this year, and the European Central Bank warned of a "sizeable reduction" in economic expansion.JUST WATCHED Voices of the Trade War: What's at stake? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Voices of the Trade War: What's at stake? 01:544. Fish mislabelingAre we all the victims of a big fish fraud? Oceana says we are. A new study from the conservation group says the fish that lands on our plates may not be what we think it is. Oceana tested more than 400 samples from markets, stores and restaurants in 24 states and Washington. DNA tests showed that about 21% of it was not what it was called on the label or menu . For example, what was supposed to be pricey sea bass often turned out to be giant perch or Nile tilapia, which are less expensive and of lower quality. Mislabeled fish is bad for people who are trying to be more mindful about what they eat, and it can be harmful for pregnant women trying to avoid fish with high mercury content.JUST WATCHED Fish fraud detector could save seafood industry billions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fish fraud detector could save seafood industry billions 01:365. Conjoined twinsNima and Dawa Pelden are back home . They're the (formerly) conjoined twins who went to Australia late last year to be separated. They were born in 2017, joined at the stomach facing each other. A charity raised $180,000 needed for their surgery, which took more than six hours and 25 surgeons, nurses and anesthetists. Nurses said after the successful procedure, the twins wanted to be close to each other , even though they were no longer physically attached. After arriving back home yesterday in Bhutan, the twins' mother thanked the people of Australia: "You all gave me hope and put smile on my face while going through some terrible times. I just want to say, you guys are awesome."JUST WATCHED Conjoined twins want to stay close after separation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Conjoined twins want to stay close after separation 01:24BREAKFAST BROWSESocial media's new influencerQueen Elizabeth II i s on Instagram . And her inaugural post was not a selfie.JUST WATCHED See Queen Elizabeth II's first Instagram post Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See Queen Elizabeth II's first Instagram post 01:05Pajamas with a purposeThis principal dons a grown-up onesie once a week to help her young scholars reach an important goal.Stepping into the spotlightTheir plight gripped the world. Now, the story of how 12 Thai boys and their soccer coach got rescued from a wet cave could be Netflix's next big hitJUST WATCHED Video shows Thai boys' rescue from cave Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video shows Thai boys' rescue from cave 01:26Life as artWant to do whatever you want -- and get paid for it? A new government-funded Swedish art project is the ultimate dream job for slackersHAPPENING LATER'Put in a blender and blown for miles'JUST WATCHED Woman describes just missing tornado that destroyed home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman describes just missing tornado that destroyed home 02:02Jobs, jobs, jobsThe February jobs report comes out later this morning. Economists think it will be pretty good, even as a broader slowdown looms.JUST WATCHED How to read the jobs report Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How to read the jobs report 01:31TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeStarbucks' newest drink is made with this unorthodox ingredient.A. KombuchaB. Condensed milkC. Lime juiceD. Egg-white powderPlay " Total Recall ," CNN's weekly news quiz, to see if you got the right answer.TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe storms return to the South Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe storms return to the South 01:32AND FINALLYSay it with flowers