If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Christchurch, New Zealand is reeling today, after mass shootings at two mosques. Let's get right to that and what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1.New Zealand mosque attacksAt least 49 people were killed in Christchurch after gunmen opened fire on two mosques. Dozens more are injured, many of them seriously, and the death toll is expected to rise. Three men and one woman have been arrested, with one man, 28, charged with murder . Witnesses say the man strolled in and opened fire on innocent worshipers. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said it was a well-coordinated attack and called this " one of New Zealand's darkest days ."This type of shocking terror attack is almost unheard-of in New Zealand, one of the world's safest countries. An attacker reportedly livestreamed the massacre in a graphic, 17-minute post on Facebook, which was soon pulled down from the social media platform . An 87-page manifesto believed to belong to one attacker also has emerged, filled with anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim rhetoric. Get the latest on this horrific attack here as well as pictures from the scene2. North KoreaNorth Korea might suspend nuclear talks with the US. The North's deputy foreign minister says the country has "no intention to yield to the US demands" or continue negotiations. She said Pyongyang was disappointed in the breakdown in negotiations during last month's summit in Vietnam between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and US President Donald Trump, and she blamed the US delegation, saying the Americans were inflexible and too demanding. The US hasn't commented yet on the minister's comments.JUST WATCHED CNN analyst: Trump gave Kim Jong Un a one-year hall pass Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN analyst: Trump gave Kim Jong Un a one-year hall pass 04:083. College admissions scandalInvestigators who discovered what's been called the biggest college admissions cheating scandal ever weren't even looking for it. They were investigating a totally separate case when they got a tip . It came from a financial executive who was being investigated by the feds in a fraud case. This executive, in a bid to save his own skin, told them that a soccer coach had accepted bribes to help the executive's daughter get into Yale, The Wall Street Journal reported. Investigators took it from there.JUST WATCHED Scam ringleader pitched TV show on college admissions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Scam ringleader pitched TV show on college admissions 00:104. BrexitThe United Kingdom is supposed to leave the European Union two weeks from today. But it's unclear now if that timeline will hold. Yes, lawmakers voted yesterday to delay Brexit (and rejected a call for a second referendum), but now the ball is in the hands of EU leaders. They'll have to agree to give the UK more time, and there's no guarantee that will happen. The EU wants the UK to have a withdrawal deal in place before agreeing to the delay. But the UK Parliament has already shot down such a deal twice, by big margins. So, the pressure once again is on Prime Minister Theresa May to craft a withdrawal deal that UK lawmakers will accept.JUST WATCHED Second Brexit referendum rejected by lawmakers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Second Brexit referendum rejected by lawmakers 02:335. Climate change walkoutsJUST WATCHED 'Science Guy' crashes AOC's panel at SXSW Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Science Guy' crashes AOC's panel at SXSW 02:06TODAY'S QUOTE"VETO!"JUST WATCHED See Trump's one-word response to rebuke Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See Trump's one-word response to rebuke 01:05BREAKFAST BROWSELast daysBrains + courageHe's been homeless on and off most of his young life, but this amazing 17-year-old from New Jersey has been accepted to 17 collegesAct of kindnessShe has to travel two hours by train every day to see her premature newborn daughter. But thanks to the train conductor, she can make the trip for freeHappy (campaign) trailsThe 2020 Democratic field has lost an eligible bachelor. Actress and activist Rosario Dawson confirms she and Sen. Cory Booker are dating.JUST WATCHED Cory Booker: You can't really fight fire with fire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cory Booker: You can't really fight fire with fire 03:26Best ace everThe pin on the 17th hole at TPC Sawgrass sits on the infamous "Island Green." But all that water didn't faze Ryan Moore, who landed a hole-in-oneTOTAL RECALLQuiz timeThis car maker is working on a vehicle that can drive across the moon's surface.A. TeslaB. BMWC. ToyotaD. PorscheTODAY'S NUMBER975The number of new stores Dollar General plans to open this yearJUST WATCHED Believe it or not, dollar stores are thriving Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Believe it or not, dollar stores are thriving 01:34TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED 'Bomb cyclone' impacts for the East Coast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Bomb cyclone' impacts for the East Coast 01:33AND FINALLYPuppy love