If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) You don't have to leave Fido and Fluffy at home when you travel. Check out this list of the world's most pet-friendly hotels . And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White House2. North KoreaSeems like North Korea hasn't wasted any time getting back to work on its nuclear program. Satellite images appear to show the North is rebuilding a facility that had been previously used to test long-range missile engines. Analysis of the images suggests the work on the facility, which had been dormant since August, began right around the time Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un met up for their second summit, which ended last week without an agreement. It's not clear at this point how the North's apparent restart of work at this facility will affect US-North Korean talks going forward.3. Alabama tornadoesJUST WATCHED Woman describes just missing tornado that destroyed home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman describes just missing tornado that destroyed home 02:024. ImmigrationUS Customs and Border Protection is at a "breaking point" dealing with a surge of migrants at the US-Mexico border, the Trump administration said. During February more than 76,000 people were captured either crossing illegally or without proper papers. That's the highest number of "encounters" in any February in 12 years, the CBP says. A good portion of that number contains families and unaccompanied children. To deal with all that, the CBP is expanding its medical support and building a processing center in El Paso, Texas.5. DepressionThere's new hope for people suffering with depression. A nasal spray that can treat the disease has been given the OK from the Food and Drug Administration. The spray, called Spravato, is geared toward people with treatment-resistant depression. Spravato works by restoring brain cells in patients with depression. It can be administered to a patient by a health care provider in a doctor's office. It can be self-administered, too, but only under the supervision of a care provider and it can't be taken at home. Spravato has a lot of side effects -- such as dizziness, nausea, vertigo, vomiting and a feeling of being "disconnected" from the mind and body -- so patients will have to be monitored for at least two hours after being given the drug.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Winter is (almost) herefor the final season of "Game of Thrones" has dropped, giving fans about a month to prepare for the end of one of TV's all-time great shows. The latest trailer for the final season of "Game of Thrones" has dropped, giving fans about a month to prepare for the end of one of TV's all-time great shows.JUST WATCHED Winter is here with the new 'Game of Thrones' trailer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Winter is here with the new 'Game of Thrones' trailer 01:15Good thinkingWe were promised we'd have flying cars by now. We don't (sigh), but if we ever get them, Goodyear has developed We were promised we'd have flying cars by now. We don't (sigh), but if we ever get them, Goodyear has developed a tire that doubles as a propellerRIP, KingKing Kong Bundy was 6 feet 4, weighed more than 400 pounds and helped take wrestling to new heights in the '80s. He King Kong Bundy was 6 feet 4, weighed more than 400 pounds and helped take wrestling to new heights in the '80s. He has died at 61Dressing downGoldman Sachs is loosening its tie by Goldman Sachs is loosening its tie by letting employees dress more casually . That's because the buttoned-up investment bank is fighting more laid-back tech firms for talent.JUST WATCHED The future of workwear: Comfortable, functional and high-tech Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The future of workwear: Comfortable, functional and high-tech 03:22Not all heroes wear capesWhat can a pilot do when his plane is stuck on the tarmac for hours because of snow? What can a pilot do when his plane is stuck on the tarmac for hours because of snow? Order pizza for all the passengers , of course.TODAY'S QUOTE"I didn't do this stuff. This is not me."R. Kelly, in an interview with CBS News, A tearful, in an interview with CBS News, denying allegations he slept with underage girls.JUST WATCHED R. Kelly denies sex abuse allegations in new interview Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH R. Kelly denies sex abuse allegations in new interview 02:03TODAY'S NUMBER115 mphThe speed of the gust of wind that The speed of the gust of wind that slammed into a Norwegian cruise ship , causing it to tilt and injuring several passengers and crew members.JUST WATCHED Passengers injured after extreme wind hits cruise ship Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Passengers injured after extreme wind hits cruise ship 01:16TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Cold weather remains in the East, with rain and snow in the West Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cold weather remains in the East, with rain and snow in the West 02:00AND FINALLY ...Snow blower