If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Don't freak out, but a historically large meteor exploded in Earth's atmosphere in December, with 10 times the energy of the Hiroshima bomb. No big deal! Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Netherlands shootingAt least three people are dead and five injured after a shooting inside a tram in the Dutch city of Utrecht. Police have arrested a 37-year-old, Turkish-born man , and they haven't ruled out terrorism. The shooting unfolded with the world still on edge from last week's Christchurch attack, and Dutch authorities elevated the terror threat rating in Utrecht to its highest level -- Level 5 -- for several hours as police searched for the suspect. The Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs released a statement saying the country was "in full solidarity" with the Dutch government, regardless of the shooter's motive.2. Cyclone IdaiA powerful cyclone ripped through parts of southeastern Africa over the weekend, and we are just now getting an idea of the devastation and the dangers yet to come. Aid agency officials say Cyclone Idai destroyed 90% of the Mozambique city of Beira, home to about 500,000 people. At least 84 people have died, but Mozambique President Filipe Nyusi said he has reason to believe the d eath toll will climb above 1,000 . If that holds true, Idai will be the deadliest recorded cyclone ever to hit the region. The cyclone also tore through parts of neighboring Zimbabwe and Malawi. In addition to flooding and damage, the storm has left some roads impassable and some communities cut off from aid, making rescue and recovery a difficult and dangerous task.3. Student loansThe Trump administration wants to put a cap on student loan borrowing in an effort to update the Higher Education Act and discourage colleges from driving up the price of loans. Currently, undergrads can borrow $57,500 from the government over their lifetime, but parents of undergrads and graduate students don't have a limit on how much they can borrow. The administration also proposed simplifying student loan repayment and expanding the Pell Grant program to low-income students who are enrolled in short-term career training programs. This is the first time the White House has outlined its priorities for an update of the higher education law, which was last reauthorized in 2008.JUST WATCHED DeVos to cancel student debt after being sued Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH DeVos to cancel student debt after being sued 00:304. Florida massage parlor scandalSome high-profile Democrats want a new FBI investigation into ties between President Trump and the former owner of the day spa where Patriots owner Robert Kraft allegedly solicited prostitution. Cindy Yang sold that particular spa in 2013, but her family reportedly still owns several other spas in the area. What does that have to do with Trump? According to reports and photos posted on social media, Yang is a frequent guest of the President . She watched the Super Bowl with him this February, has visited Mar-a-Lago several times and has been photographed alongside major Trump associates, including two of his sons and Kellyanne Conway. Democrats want to know if Yang illegally sought to leverage her connection with the President by selling access to Chinese clients. According to their request, Yang once used her website to offer "the opportunity to interact with the President."JUST WATCHED Miami Herald: Trump watched Super Bowl with ex-owner of spa linked to Kraft sting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Miami Herald: Trump watched Super Bowl with ex-owner of spa linked to Kraft sting 02:005. MySpaceBad news for MySpace enthusiasts: The former social media giant-turned-music sharing platform says it has lost 12 years' worth of music, photos and video files. The company says a "server migration" problem led to the mass wipeout, which may have deleted any content uploaded between 2003 and 2015. While this may be an act of divine mercy for those who used MySpace to unwisely chronicle their awkward teen years, the platform enjoyed several years as a music sharing site before being all but swallowed up by Facebook. Some big musical acts, like Calvin Harris and Arctic Monkeys, were discovered during MySpace's musical heyday. The mass deletion, one expert said, could amount to 50 million songs by more than 14 million artists.JUST WATCHED These are some of the most notorious data breaches Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH These are some of the most notorious data breaches 01:38BREAKFAST BROWSEVideo games are now a legitimate high school sportJUST WATCHED Video gaming recognized as a high school sport Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video gaming recognized as a high school sport 01:46Apple releases new iPad mini and iPad AirChinese buyer bids $1.4 million for racing pigeon named ArmandoSpaceflight is activating herpes in astronautsJUST WATCHED What happens to your body in space? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What happens to your body in space? 04:58Hilton Hotels recycles old bars of soap and turns them into new onesThe chain says the soap will be "sanitized" first, but it's still deeply troubling news for germaphobesTODAY'S NUMBER$100,000The amount President Trump recently donated to the Department of Homeland Security , according to one of his tweets. Since taking office, Trump has donated his $400,000 annual salary to federal agencies and efforts.JUST WATCHED Trump donates salary to National Park Service (2017) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump donates salary to National Park Service (2017) 01:05TODAY'S QUOTE"America's elected representatives have a duty to regulate who comes in and when. In meeting this responsibility, it helps to remember that America's immigrant history made us who we are. Amid all the complications of policy, may we never forget that immigration is a blessing and a strength."JUST WATCHED Bush: May we never forget that immigration is a blessing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bush: May we never forget that immigration is a blessing 01:55TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Rain returns to the flooded Midwest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rain returns to the flooded Midwest 01:36AND FINALLYI'm gonna spend today right here