If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Ready to explore Italy's iconic Cinque Terre coastline? Just make sure to leave the flip-flops at home or you'll be fined.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. House DemocratsSince taking over the House, Democrats have marched pretty much in lockstep under House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. But the unity seems to be coming apart, as the Dems can't seem to get their act together over what sounds like a no-brainer: passing a resolution condemning anti-Semitism. The need for such a resolution rose out of the controversy over remarks by freshman Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar . The Minnesota lawmaker, one of only two Muslim women in Congress, has twice made comments many interpreted as being anti-Semitic. The plan to deal with this was to pass the resolution.But that fell apart yesterday at a reportedly raucous closed-door meeting of Democrats. Some freshman and female lawmakers, including many from the Congressional Black Caucus, said they felt Omar was being treated unfairly and held to a different standard than white, male, Christian lawmakers. So, there was talk of updating the resolution to include language condemning anti-Muslim bias as well. The vote is on hold for now2. HuaweiOne of China's biggest tech companies is pushing back against the United States. Huawei, the world's biggest maker of telecom equipment, sued the US government over a law that bans federal agencies from buying its products. A company official said Congress acted as "judge, jury and executioner" in passing the law. The US wanted the ban because it worries Huawei's products, including its smartphones, could be used by the Chinese government to spy on other nations, something Huawei denies.JUST WATCHED Huawei suing US government over federal ban Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Huawei suing US government over federal ban 02:353. Justin TrudeauCanadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's good guy persona is taking a hit in a scandal that threatens his political future. Trudeau is accused of pressuring the country's former attorney general to help an influential Quebec-based construction company settle a criminal case and avoid prosecution for alleged bribery. Trudeau denies this, but some members of his Cabinet have resigned. Now Canadian lawmakers are holding hearings to get to the bottom of it all. The growing scandal comes at a bad time, too, for Trudeau and his Liberal Party. National elections in Canada are just seven months away.JUST WATCHED Political scandal in Canada Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Political scandal in Canada 04:374. FacebookA Facebook that would put privacy first? Don't laugh. Mark Zuckerberg says that's his vision for a new Facebook . The social media giant's founder and CEO laid it all out in post, saying he wants Facebook to become more secure, including by encrypting messages. Zuckerberg said Facebook would make it easier for users to have messages and content disappear after a certain time period, and he touted Instagram Stories, which disappear after 24 hours. He also hinted at integrating the services of Facebook with WhatsApp and Instagram, a move that some say would give the social media platform even more power.JUST WATCHED It took Facebook 15 years to take over the world. Here's how Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH It took Facebook 15 years to take over the world. Here's how 01:475. Alex TrebekJUST WATCHED Alex Trebek announces he has Stage 4 cancer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Alex Trebek announces he has Stage 4 cancer 01:12BREAKFAST BROWSELast one standingAbout two decades ago, it seemed as if Blockbuster was going to take over the planet. Now, there's only one left on EarthJUST WATCHED Coming soon: The last Blockbuster on the planet Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Coming soon: The last Blockbuster on the planet 01:08Best wishesA dying man in Connecticut had one of his final wishes fulfilled: a phone call from President Trump.JUST WATCHED President Trump fulfills man's dying wish Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH President Trump fulfills man's dying wish 01:30Alone no moreBook lovers will have to switch on the TV, now that Netflix is turning Gabriel Garcia Marquez's masterwork "One Hundred Years of Solitude" into a series.Today in facepalmA Mexican TV personality wore brownface to mock "Roma" star Yalitza Aparicio and is shocked -- shocked -- at the outrage.JUST WATCHED 'Roma' star makes history Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Roma' star makes history 02:55HAPPENING LATERSentencing dayEx-Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort is set to be sentenced today on bank fraud and tax evasion charges. He faces up to 25 years in prison.JUST WATCHED Toobin: 'Enormous' physical toll taken on Manafort Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Toobin: 'Enormous' physical toll taken on Manafort 00:54TODAY'S NUMBER21The number of horses that have died in the last 10 weeks at Santa Anita Park . The Southern California racetrack has closed indefinitely while investigators try to figure out what's causing the deaths.TODAY'S QUOTE"So bear with me and know that I am grateful for all the love. Just, being grateful quietly."JUST WATCHED Luke Perry wasn't too young for a stroke, report says Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Luke Perry wasn't too young for a stroke, report says 02:01TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED The deep freeze continues for two-thirds of the US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The deep freeze continues for two-thirds of the US 01:40AND FINALLYAll my friends know the snow rider