Plains, Georgia (CNN) They came to see Jimmy.Not James Earl Carter Jr. Not "Mr. President." Not Georgia's ex-governor. Not the Nobel Peace Prize winner and accomplished humanitarian.Jimmy.Three days after receiving his first radiation treatment targeting four spots of melanoma on his brain, the 39th president was at Maranatha Baptist Church in his sleepy hometown of Plains to deliver a Bible lesson.People flocked from all over the country -- and to a lesser degree, the world -- to see this spectacle, to see this former leader of the free world teaching Sunday school as if he were an average Jim.But to folks from Plains and the surrounding area, it's no spectacle at all. He's done this a few times a month for decades, they say. He's a fixture around town.Sure, that fixture comes with a Secret Service entourage, but visit Plains for any length of time and you're likely to catch a glimpse of Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter, perhaps at church or a local event or perhaps taking their Trikkes for a spin."Me and Jimmy talk about everything but politics. We talk about fishing, hunting," said Randy Hathaway, a 10-year member of Maranatha and its engineer.He holds out his hand to demonstrate the size of the bream you can catch in "Jimmy's pond" -- the one down past Carter's boyhood home, over the railroad tracks, "down in a little valley."The bream are great for a fish fry, Hathaway said, and where some ponds in the area aren't stocked so well, at Jimmy's pond "you're pretty guaranteed to catch fish out there."Hundreds of lessons over the decadesPhotos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Jimmy Carter, the 39th President of the United States, speaks in Elk City, Oklahoma, in 1979. Hide Caption 1 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter, 6, poses with his sister Gloria in their hometown of Plains, Georgia, in 1931. Hide Caption 2 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter graduated from the US Naval Academy on June 5, 1946, after completing the accelerated wartime program. Hide Caption 3 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter shovels peanuts in the 1970s. Carter was the son of a peanut farmer, and he took over the family business in 1953 before his political career took off. Hide Caption 4 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter gets a haircut during his first year as governor of Georgia. He was inaugurated on January 12, 1971. Hide Caption 5 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos After becoming the Democratic Party's presidential nominee in 1976, Carter raises hands with running mate Walter Mondale at the Democratic National Convention in New York. Standing to Carter's right is his wife, Rosalynn, and their daughter, Amy. Carter ran as a Washington outsider and someone who promised to shake up government. Hide Caption 6 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter and US President Gerald Ford debate domestic policy at the Walnut Street Theater in Philadelphia in September 1976. It was the first of three Ford-Carter presidential debates. Hide Caption 7 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter embraces his wife after receiving news of his election victory on November 2, 1976. Carter received 297 electoral votes, while Ford received 241. Hide Caption 8 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Chief Justice Warren Burger swears Carter into office on January 20, 1977, while Rosalynn Carter looks on. Hide Caption 9 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter, second from left, and his brother Billy, left, visit Georgia's St. Simons Island in 1977. Hide Caption 10 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter delivers his State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress in January 1978. "Government cannot solve our problems," he said. Anti-government sentiment at the time was brought on by economic pessimism along with the end of the Vietnam War and the unraveling of the Watergate saga. Hide Caption 11 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Three days before his birthday in 1978, Carter blows out candles on a birthday cake presented to him at a fundraiser for the Democratic National Committee. Hide Caption 12 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter jogs on the South Lawn of the White House in December 1978. Hide Caption 13 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, right, listens to Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin on September 6, 1978, at the Camp David presidential retreat in Maryland. With Carter's help, terms of a peace accord were negotiated at Camp David. A formal treaty was signed in Washington on March 26, 1979, ending 31 years of war between Egypt and Israel. It was one of the highlights of Carter's presidency. Hide Caption 14 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Outgoing President Carter, left, sits with President-elect Ronald Reagan en route to Reagan's inauguration in January 1981. Hide Caption 15 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Before departing for Georgia following Reagan's inauguration, Carter holds his crying daughter as his wife blows a kiss at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland. Hide Caption 16 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos The Carters wear glittering garlands and a turban given to them by Pakistani tribesmen at the Pakistan-Afghanistan border in November 1986. They also received a pair of rams. Hide Caption 17 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter addresses a United Nations interfaith service at New York's Trinity Church in September 1991. His speech was entitled "The Present Role of the United Nations in a Changing World." Hide Caption 18 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos From left, former President George H.W. Bush, President Bill Clinton, Carter and Vice President Al Gore attend the Presidents' Summit for America's Future in Philadelphia in 1997. They helped clean up local neighborhoods as part of the effort to encourage volunteer service. Hide Caption 19 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Clinton presented Carter with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, on August 9, 1999. Carter was recognized for his diplomatic achievements and humanitarian efforts. Hide Caption 20 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter works at a construction site sponsored by the Jimmy Carter Work Project in Asan, South Korea, on August 6, 2001. The Carters have been involved with the nonprofit Habitat for Humanity since 1984. Hide Caption 21 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Cuban President Fidel Castro calls for time as Carter prepares to throw the first pitch at a baseball game in Havana, Cuba, in May 2002. Hide Caption 22 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Students at the University of Havana listen to Carter outline his vision for improved relations between the United States and Cuba on May 14, 2002. The speech was broadcast live and uncensored on Cuban state television. Hide Caption 23 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter is awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in Oslo, Norway, in December 2002. He was recognized for his many years of public service, and in his acceptance speech he urged others to work for peace. Hide Caption 24 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter adjusts his headphones at a news conference in Caracas, Venezuela, in January 2003. He proposed a referendum on Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez's presidency or an amendment to the constitution as a way to end the political crisis in the South American nation. Hide Caption 25 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Democratic presidential candidate Howard Dean speaks beside Carter during a campaign stop in Plains, Georgia, in January 2004. Hide Caption 26 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Rosalynn Carter smashes a bottle of champagne against the sail of the USS Jimmy Carter during the submarine's christening ceremony in Connecticut on June 5, 2004. Hide Caption 27 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos The Carters wave to the audience at the Democratic National Convention in Boston in 2004. Hide Caption 28 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter checks his notes while observing a polling station in Maputo, Mozambique, in December 2004. Since 1989, the Carter Center has been observing elections around the world to determine their legitimacy. The nonprofit organization was founded by Carter and his wife to advance human rights across the globe. Hide Caption 29 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos In February 2007, Carter speaks to children in Ghana on the seriousness of eradicating guinea worm disease. Hide Caption 30 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos The Carters arrive for President Barack Obama's inauguration in January 2009. Hide Caption 31 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter testifies in May 2009 during a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on energy independence and security. Hide Caption 32 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Hamas leader Ismail Haniya speaks in June 2009 during a joint news conference with Carter in Gaza. Carter denounced the deprivations facing Palestinians in Gaza as unique in history, asserting that they are being treated "like animals." Hide Caption 33 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter walks out of the Hall of Remembrance at the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial in Jerusalem in August 2009. The Elders, an independent council of retired world figures, kicked off a visit to Israel and the Palestinian territories in a bid to encourage Middle East peace efforts. Hide Caption 34 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter delivers a speech in Seoul, South Korea, after receiving an honorary doctorate degree from Korea University in March 2010. During a four-day visit to South Korea, Carter urged direct talks with North Korea, saying a failure to negotiate nuclear disarmament might lead to a "catastrophic" war. Hide Caption 35 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter greets South African leader Nelson Mandela in Johannesburg in May 2010. Hide Caption 36 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter hugs Aijalon Mahli Gomes at Boston's Logan International Airport in August 2010. Carter negotiated Gomes' release after he was held in North Korea for crossing into the country illegally in January 2010. Hide Caption 37 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter and other former Presidents, including Clinton and both George Bushes, attend the Points of Light Institute Tribute to Former President George H.W. Bush in March 2011. Hide Caption 38 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Cuban President Raul Castro greets Carter and his wife at the Revolution Palace in Havana on March 30, 2011. Carter was the first former US President to visit Cuba since the 1959 revolution. Hide Caption 39 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos In April 2011, Carter addresses students at the Pyongyang University of Foreign Studies in Pyongyang, North Korea. Hide Caption 40 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos As part of the World Summit of Nobel Peace Laureates, Carter answers a question during a panel discussion at the University of Illinois in Chicago in April 2012. Hide Caption 41 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos From left, President Obama, Carter, first lady Michelle Obama and Clinton wave from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial on August 28, 2013. It was the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington, which is best remembered for Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech. Hide Caption 42 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter talks with reporters in Chicago at a signing for his book "A Call to Action: Women, Religion, Violence and Power" in March 2014. In the book, Carter argues that the abuse and subjugation of women and girls is one of the biggest challenges the world faces. Hide Caption 43 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter teaches Sunday School on Easter Sunday 2014 at Maranatha Baptist Church in Plains, Georgia. Carter teaches Sunday School at the church several times a year. Hide Caption 44 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter signs his book "A Full Life: Reflections At Ninety" in Pasadena, California, in July 2015. Hide Caption 45 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter talks about his cancer diagnosis during a news conference at the Carter Center in Atlanta in August 2015. Carter announced that his cancer was on four small spots on his brain and that he would immediately begin radiation treatment. In December 2015, Carter announced that he was cancer-free. Hide Caption 46 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter delivers a lecture on the eradication of guinea worm disease at the House of Lords in London in February 2016. Hide Caption 47 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter and his wife arrive for the inauguration of Donald Trump in January 2017. Hide Caption 48 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter helps build stairs for a home during a Habitat for Humanity project in Edmonton, Alberta, in July 2017. A couple days later, while working on another house in Canada, Carter became dehydrated and was taken to a hospital as a precaution. Hide Caption 49 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter, center, speaks along side former US Presidents George H. W. Bush, George W. Bush, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama as they attend the Hurricane Relief concert in College Station, Texas, in October 2017. Hide Caption 50 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter holds up a copy of his new book "Faith: A Journey For All" at a book-signing event in New York in March 2018. Hide Caption 51 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter and his wife, Rosalynn, speak with Atlanta Falcons head coach Dan Quinn prior to an NFL game in September 2018. Hide Caption 52 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Former US President George W. Bush greets Carter and other former presidents during the state funeral for his father in December 2018. Hide Caption 53 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter bow their heads in prayer at a church in Plains, Georgia, in June 2019. It was less than a month after the former president fell and broke his hip. Hide Caption 54 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter fell and hit his head in early October 2019 while getting ready for church, requiring 14 stitches above his brow. But he didn't let that stop him from heading to Nashville that afternoon for a week of building houses with Habitat for Humanity Hide Caption 55 of 56 Photos: Jimmy Carter's legacy, in photos Carter teaches Sunday school at Maranatha Baptist Church in Plains, Georgia, in November 2019. Hide Caption 56 of 56Though Carter has been teaching Sunday school since he was 18 -- at Plains Baptist, in the Navy, at First Baptist in the nation's capital -- this was his 689th lesson at Maranatha, where he and Rosalynn have been members since shortly after they departed the White House.Ron Lipe, 59, of Columbia, South Carolina, told CNN he brought his son and mother to see one of Carter's lessons 11 years ago.He decided he'd bring his wife of 35 years, Helene, to Sunday's service. But Lipe didn't want to be in the back with the media parade and its bank of cameras."I'm going to spend the night right outside the door," he told a journalist setting up Saturday at 10 p.m. for the next morning's events. "I want her to have the best seat in the house."To be clear, this was 12 hours before Carter was slated to speak, but Lipe came prepared with water, granola bars and an extension cord to charge his phone.As it turned out, church spokeswoman Jill Stuckey didn't think it was Christian to let Lipe sleep on folding chairs outside the church. She sent him home Saturday night with a promise that he and Helene would have a front-and-center seat when they arrived in the morning.(Stuckey later explained she wasn't looking forward to the throngs converging on the quaint sanctuary: "I cannot tell you how sick I feel about the thought of turning people away from our church. ... We could possibly have someone flying in from Spain for this.")Sure enough, in the morning as the media filed in, there was Lipe on the front row in a gray-and-white striped tie and matching slacks, feeling fresher for the few hours of bed sleep he'd enjoyed.Helene Lipe was delighted to be front row for the lesson. Carter was the first president she and Ron voted for, and they've always admired his everyman demeanor."He's a real person. He just seems real," Helene Lipe said. "There's a sense of falseness to politicians. It's just his down-to-earth honesty."Added her husband, "He goes out and picks up a hammer where other ex-presidents just go and give speeches."Ron Lipe said he wasn't at all surprised that Carter was keeping his commitments when, considering his health, anyone would give the former president a pass."That's just Jimmy Carter. That's just his dedication to people," he said.An example of a humble lifePhotos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Jimmy Carter embraces his wife, Rosalynn, after receiving the final news of his victory in the 1976 presidential election. Reflecting on his accomplishments while addressing his current cancer diagnosis , the former President said, "The best thing I ever did was marrying Rosalynn." Carter married Rosalynn Smith in 1946. "That's a pinnacle of my life," he said. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Carter speaks on election night at an Atlanta hotel in 1976. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Carter walks hand-in-hand with Rosalynn and his daughter, Amy, during his inaugural parade in Washington on January 21, 1977. It was the first time in history that a President had not ridden toward the White House in a carriage or automobile to celebrate taking the oath of office. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Carter holds his wife's hand during the inaugural parade. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Carter is sworn in by Chief Justice Earl Burger as the 39th President of the United States. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Carter addresses the media outside his residence in Plains, Georgia, next to his wife and Democratic presidential hopeful Richard Gephardt in March 1988. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Carter shakes hands with Israeli Labour Party leader Shimon Peres in Jerusalem in March 1990. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years President Bill Clinton, Carter and other former U.S. Presidents stand with their wives during Richard Nixon's funeral in Yorba Linda, California, in April 1994. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years The Carters wave to the audience during the Democratic National Convention in July 2004. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years The Carters attend the grand opening ceremony of the William J. Clinton Presidential Center in Little Rock, Arkansas, in November 2004. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years The Carters attend a MusiCares gala honoring Bob Dylan in February. Hide Caption 11 of 11Presidents tend to "live bigger lives" after the Oval Office, said Ken Mariano, who traveled from Manchester, New Jersey, and was in line outside the sanctuary at 5:30 a.m."President Carter is humble," the 34-year-old political science teacher said. "He went home."Carter's life and lessons seem to resonate with even political persuasions that he didn't count among his allies while in office.Tyler Knierim, 19, of Terre Haute, Indiana, had been planning to make the 650-mile pilgrimage for two months. He was particularly impressed with Carter's assertion that one's love for his fellow man "shows your love toward God," he said."I'm a conservative, but his values from the day he was born until now make him a wonderful person. He really defines the ex-presidency," he said.Six hundred and fifty miles may sound like a haul, but it certainly wasn't the farthest folks traveled to see Carter's lesson.Cricket Keating, 44, a former middle-school classmate of the Carters' daughter, Amy, and Lilian Beck, 34, traveled more than 700 miles from Columbus, Ohio, to take Ron Lipe's place at the front of the line. The church and its parking lot were vacant when they arrived at midnight.Keating attended church in Plains when she was a kid, and though she's lost touch with Amy, Keating wanted to celebrate her Saturday birthday there. Jimmy Carter was always "very dear and welcoming to me" as a child, she said."I wanted to be among the people supporting him. I needed to be among the crowd that is behind him in his fight -- in his latest fight," she said.When Carter entered the mint-green sanctuary, his own handmade persimmon cross serving as his backdrop, he began his lesson by asking congregants from where they'd traveled."Georgia!" one parishioner volunteered, followed by Alabama, Tennessee, both Carolinas, Nebraska, Ohio, Kentucky, Ghana, Iowa, Florida, Indiana, Maryland, Louisiana, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Texas, Illinois, Mississippi, California and Guatemala.One congregant said, "D.C.!""I used to live there!" Carter quipped.'At ease' with what's to comeJUST WATCHED Carter on Stage IV melanoma: I was 'surprisingly at ease' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Carter on Stage IV melanoma: I was 'surprisingly at ease' 02:31In his Thursday news conference, Carter seemed fearless about what may come as he told reporters he's "at ease" and OK with whatever happens. In fact, he seemed to regret that the cancer might put a damper on his volunteerism, namely a Habitat for Humanity trip to Nepal in November that conflicts with one of his treatments.He kept with the theme Sunday, telling the crowd of about 300 packing Maranatha's main sanctuary -- along with another 150 watching a television feed in the church's Fellowship Hall -- that he intends to continue leading Sunday school, teaching at Emory and working with the Carter Center to the best of his ability."That's enough of that subject," he said, cutting off the cancer talk to begin his lesson on agape love, or "love for someone who is not lovable" -- a key tenet of Christianity.Leaning on the books of Acts and 1 Samuel, Carter smiled, his eyes twinkling, as he retold the tales of Paul and Barnabas parting ways and of David sparing Saul's life to impart a lesson on forgiveness and conflict resolution.That was the best part for Mildred and Wayne Calhoun's 10-year-old grandson, Joshua, who traveled from Jacksonville, Florida, on Saturday. They weren't disappointed when they were relegated to the overflow room to watch on TV."I thought it was a good sermon. He told you what you need to know in life and about love," the youngster said. "It was wonderful to meet the president of the United States."Before the 45-minute lesson began, Jan Williams -- known to locals as Ms. Jan -- made it clear that Maranatha members were quite protective of Carter, especially now that he is battling cancer.Secret Service would screen everyone, she said. There were no pocketbooks or backpacks allowed in the sanctuary -- only keys, cameras and "money for the offering plates." (Carter made those, too, of Philippine mahogany.)"Whatever you do, don't say, 'I'm so sorry you have cancer,' " she said, reminding everyone of the power of positive reinforcement.Handshakes spread germs and were prohibited, as was applause both before and after Carter's lesson. There'd also be no lollygagging during the post-service photographs that the Carters afford to those who attend the Sunday service.When getting your photo taken, keep your hands out of your pockets where the Secret Service can see them, she warned, and groups and families should not attempt to take photos with the Carters individually."If you come up by yourself, I won't say anything," Carter said later. "I'll wonder why you don't have any friends."Jimmy Carter for cancer survivorJokes aside, concern for the hometown hero's well-being extended beyond the brick walls of Maranatha.At a birthday concert for Rosalynn on Saturday night, the Carters' neighbor, Stephanie Wynn, an 11-year member of Maranatha, worried that the large crowd could get out of hand."You want to be welcoming but not a spectacle," she said in the parking lot of the Jimmy Carter National Historic Site. "To everybody else he's a world figure, and to us, he's part of our family. ... We put leaders on a pedestal. He takes the pedestal and uses it."Asked her thoughts on the news of his illness, she grew quiet, pondering her words."I feel pretty good about his ability to overcome," she said.That's a popular sentiment around town. You can't turn down a street in Plains that doesn't have a "Jimmy Carter for Cancer Survivor" campaign sign in someone's yard.Pressed on why she stalled before answering, she seemed pensive at first, then sad -- as if she didn't want to consider the worst-case scenario."He's honest when he says he's OK with what happens," she said, explaining that the reason he's such a successful fighter for peace is because "his peace comes from within."Betty Pope, 81, of Americus -- who served on the Peanut Brigade, the grassroots organization that helped usher Carter into the White House in 1977 -- noted how "spry and active" the Carters remain.Pope was sitting in front of the Carters during the birthday concert and reveled in the couple of 69 years holding hands during the show and "I felt Jimmy's feet tapping behind me."News of Carter's health did not alarm her, she said. For one, Carter had already told his fellow Maranatha members of his diagnosis the Sunday before he told the world. But more important to Pope was Carter's belief in God, she said."He's not afraid at all. His faith is going to see him through," she said.