(CNN) The Rocky Fire rages on. The participants in the first GOP debate are set. And a new undercover Planned Parenthood video is released.It's Wednesday, and here are five things to know for your new day.CALIFORNIA WILDFIRES: The Rocky Fire -- the largest of the nearly two dozen fires torching California -- destroyed 24 homes and 26 outbuildings as it continued to burn yesterday for a sixth day . It's charred 67,000 acres and is only 20% contained. Lower temperatures, higher humidity and clouds are helping firefighters gain ground on the fires, but another weather element -- lightning -- is making things worse. Thousands of lightning strikes over the past several days have helped fuel the flames, igniting hundreds of small wildfires in the northern part of the state.MH370The last word?: When will the world know with certainty if an object that washed up on an Indian Ocean island is from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? An answer could When will the world know with certainty if an object that washed up on an Indian Ocean island is from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370? An answer could come this week . Expert analysis of a wing part from a Boeing 777 begins today at a specialized lab in southwestern France. Officials have already said they believe the part is from MH370 because it was the only 777 plane known to have gone missing over water.JUST WATCHED Investigators to start analysis of possible MH370 part Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Investigators to start analysis of possible MH370 part 00:10CAMPAIGN 2016Making the cut: It was just like the announcement of the college football playoff earlier this year: Fans and pundits waiting to see who ranked high enough to get into the big game. Only this time, the big game is the big debate. Yesterday, Fox News It was just like the announcement of the college football playoff earlier this year: Fans and pundits waiting to see who ranked high enough to get into the big game. Only this time, the big game is the big debate. Yesterday, Fox News announced the lineup for Thursday's prime-time GOP debate. Donald Trump, Jeb Bush, Scott Walker and seven others are in. So what happens to the seven unlucky souls who missed the cut? Well, Rick Perry, Bobby Jindal and others will still get their time to shine on stage, they'll just have to do it at 5 p.m. ET, when pretty much no one will be watching.Photos: Who's running for president? Ted Cruz, Donald Trump, John Kasich, Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders, Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Who's running for president?"So, ladies and gentlemen, I am officially running for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again," Trump told the crowd at his announcement. Businessman Donald Trump announced June 16 at his Trump Tower in New York City that he is seeking the Republican presidential nomination. This ends more than two decades of flirting with the idea of running for the White House."So, ladies and gentlemen, I am officially running for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again," Trump told the crowd at his announcement. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Who's running for president?"These are all of our stories," Cruz told the audience at Liberty University in Virginia. "These are who we are as Americans. And yet for so many Americans, the promise of America seems more and more distant." Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas has made a name for himself in the Senate, solidifying his brand as a conservative firebrand willing to take on the GOP's establishment. He announced he was seeking the Republican presidential nomination in a speech on March 23."These are all of our stories," Cruz told the audience at Liberty University in Virginia. "These are who we are as Americans. And yet for so many Americans, the promise of America seems more and more distant." Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Who's running for president? Ohio Gov. John Kasich joined the Republican field July 21 as he formally announced his White House bid."I am here to ask you for your prayers, for your support ... because I have decided to run for president of the United States," Kasich told his kickoff rally at the Ohio State University. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Who's running for president?"Everyday Americans need a champion, and I want to be that champion -- so you can do more than just get by -- you can get ahead. And stay ahead," she said in her announcement video. "Because when families are strong, America is strong. So I'm hitting the road to earn your vote, because it's your time. And I hope you'll join me on this journey." Hillary Clinton launched her presidential bid on April 12 through a video message on social media. The former first lady, senator and secretary of state is considered the front-runner among possible Democratic candidates."Everyday Americans need a champion, and I want to be that champion -- so you can do more than just get by -- you can get ahead. And stay ahead," she said in her announcement video. "Because when families are strong, America is strong. So I'm hitting the road to earn your vote, because it's your time. And I hope you'll join me on this journey." Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Who's running for president?"This great nation and its government belong to all of the people and not to a handful of billionaires, their super PACs and their lobbyists," Sanders said at a rally in Vermont on May 26. Sen. Bernie Sanders , an independent from Vermont who caucuses with Democrats, announced his run in an email to supporters on April 30. He has said the United States needs a "political revolution" of working-class Americans to take back control of the government from billionaires."This great nation and its government belong to all of the people and not to a handful of billionaires, their super PACs and their lobbyists," Sanders said at a rally in Vermont on May 26. Hide Caption 6 of 6ZIMBABWE HUNTINGSportsmen stalked: Theo Bronkhorst -- one of the two Zimbabweans who allegedly were paid $50,000 to help Walter Palmer hunt and kill Cecil the lion -- Theo Bronkhorst -- one of the two Zimbabweans who allegedly were paid $50,000 to help Walter Palmer hunt and kill Cecil the lion -- was in court today on poaching charges. His hearing was short. The trial was postponed until September to give the defense more time to prepare. Meanwhile, the fallout in this country over Cecil's death continues. Someone broke into Palmer's winter home in Florida and vandalized it, littering the property with pigs' feet and animal crackers and spray-painting "lion killer" on the garage door.JUST WATCHED Want to end trophy hunting? Pay up Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Want to end trophy hunting? Pay up 10:22PLANNED PARENTHOODUndercover uproar: Another day, another Another day, another undercover video release . The anti-abortion group that accuses Planned Parenthood of illegally selling organs and tissue from aborted fetuses released a new video yesterday. This one features Planned Parenthood's Gulf Coast director of research talking about the relationship between altering abortion procedures to get the most intact organs possible and costs. In another part of the video, the former director of Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast says the branch made about $120,000 a month selling aborted fetus tissue and organs.