Are you affected by the wildfires? Share your photos with CNN iReport if you can do so safely.Clearlake Oaks, California (CNN) The only force fiercer than a 100-square-mile wildfire was Joe Welz's impulse to protect his home.Then came the moment when he relented: Welz turned his back on his home and evacuated.It wasn't easy. He was ordered to evacuate Sunday, but he defied that order until Monday, when he grabbed his dog and reluctantly abandoned his home sweet home, he said."When you start seeing smoke plumes come up that are severe black, you know they're in the brush, and they're not too far away," Welz said."You look at it: Hey, it's time to go! And when you see flames -- when you see flames, it's really time to leave!"This homeowner's dilemma is being shared by more than 13,000 northern Californians who've been told to evacuate as the Rocky Fire rampages across almost 105 square miles in Lake, Yolo and Colusa Counties.Photos: California wildfires Photos: California wildfires Fires burn on a hill in Livermore, California, on Thursday, August 20. California has been battling numerous wildfires as its historic drought reaches a fourth year. Hide Caption 1 of 31 Photos: California wildfires The charred remains of a property is seen in Livermore on August 20. Hide Caption 2 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A firefighter climbs on the side of a hill while putting out hot spots in Livermore on August 20. Hide Caption 3 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Firefighter Mike Martel walks through smoke while working to clean up after a weekend fire that ravaged the Montebello Hills area near Los Angeles on Monday, August 17. Hide Caption 4 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Firefighters hose down the smoldering ruins of a building that was burned by the Warm Fire north of Castaic, California, on Sunday, August 16. Hide Caption 5 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A plane drops fire retardant on the Cabin Fire north of Asuza, California, on Saturday, August 15. Hide Caption 6 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A crew descends a scorched mountainside in the Angeles National Forest on August 15. Hide Caption 7 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A burn operation is seen during the Jerusalem Fire, near Lower Lake, California, on Friday, August 11. Hide Caption 8 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Flames from a backfire operation burn through a grove of trees as firefighters try to head off the Rocky Fire on Monday, August 3, near Clearlake, California. Hide Caption 9 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Firefighters look on as the Rocky Fire burns through trees on Sunday, August 2. Hide Caption 10 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A Cal Fire truck is driven away from flames as the Rocky Fire burns near Clearlake on August 2. Hide Caption 11 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Firefighters light backfires in an attempt to control the blaze near Clearlake on August 2. Hide Caption 12 of 31 Photos: California wildfires The Rocky Fire burns near Clearlake on August 2. Hide Caption 13 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Flames from the Rocky Fire burn through dry grass August 2 near Clearlake. Hide Caption 14 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Large plumes of smoke rise from the Rocky Fire on Saturday, August 1. Hide Caption 15 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A firefighting air tanker flies in front of the setting sun while battling the Rocky Fire on August 1. Hide Caption 16 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Heat marks are visible on an air-conditioning unit at a destroyed home in Lower Lake on August 1. Hide Caption 17 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Flames approach a house in Lower Lake on Friday, July 31. Hide Caption 18 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Firefighters spray a hose at a fire near Lower Lake on July 31. Hide Caption 19 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A firefighter prepares to douse spot fires in Lower Lake on July 31. Hide Caption 20 of 31 Photos: California wildfires As the Rocky Fire approaches, goats run from their pen after firefighters freed them on July 31. Hide Caption 21 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Trees and brush burn while firefighters battle the Wragg Fire near Winters, California, on Thursday, July 23. The fast-moving wildfire had scorched almost 7,000 acres in Napa and Sonoma counties, authorities said. Hide Caption 22 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A firefighting aircraft drops retardant on a ridge to combat the Wragg Fire on July 23. Hide Caption 23 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Flames from the Pines Fire burn on Saturday, July 18, in Wrightwood, California. The blaze was burning near Mount San Antonio, which is also called Mount Baldy for its snow-capped summit that's highly visible in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 24 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Slow-moving traffic fills the northbound lanes of Interstate 215 near Victorville, California, on Friday, July 17. The traffic was linked to the North Fire, which caused people to abandon their vehicles and flee as flames jumped the freeway. Hide Caption 25 of 31 Photos: California wildfires The North Fire burns July 17 near Interstate 15 in the Cajon Pass in San Bernardino County. Hide Caption 26 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Firefighters start a backfire along Baldy Mesa Road late on July 17. Hide Caption 27 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Smoke from a wildfire rises above Interstate 15 near San Bernardino, California, on July 17. Hide Caption 28 of 31 Photos: California wildfires The scorched remains of a truck destroyed by the North Fire are towed away near Victorville on July 17. Hide Caption 29 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A helicopter prepares to drop water over a fire near Oak Hills, California, on July 17. Hide Caption 30 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Flames rise over a cluster of homes in Oak Hills on July 17. Hide Caption 31 of 31"I'm most concerned about everybody's homes, not just mine -- everybody in the community. This is very scary, and it's the first something like this fire has happened," said Wellz, a 27-year resident of Spring Valley in Colusa County."Thousands of people can lose their homes," he said.'I need to put it in God's hands'Welz found shelter at Moose Lodge 2284 in Clearlake Oaks, where tables overflowed with donated food to serve 200 evacuees who spent Monday night there or in their motor homes in the lodge's parking lot.Anxieties ran high Tuesday as black smoke rose in the far distance, a reminder of what has upset their lives."If I start getting worked up, I know I need to put it in God's hands and the hands of the people fighting the fire," said Madeline Lewek-Franco, another Spring Valley resident. "And if my home goes, it's not the end of the world."As of late Tuesday, the Rocky Fire destroyed 24 homes and 26 outbuildings as it continued to burn for the sixth day, charring 67,000 acres with only 20% containment.In all, 22 wildfires raged throughout California, where four years of historic drought have made it easy for flames to spread. Gov. Jerry Brown declared a state of emergency Friday to help gather additional firefighting resources.The fires have killed one person: Last week, firefighter David Ruhl of Rapid City, South Dakota, lost his life battling the Frog Fire in far northern California's Modoc National Forest, near Adin.The U.S. Forest Service said Tuesday that Ruhl -- whose body was found the morning after he was reported missing -- died of carbon monoxide poisoning and smoke inhalation.With that autopsy now complete, Forest Supervisor Amanda McAdams said, "We are glad we are now able to return Dave home."Life at the lodgeDozens gathered in the Moose Lodge's parking lot in Clearlake Oaks, 117 miles north of San Francisco.The lot became an impromptu campground. Some stayed in recreational vehicles and others huddled near their cars.A woman cried as she sat in a folding chair, looking at the smoke rising from hills on the horizon."My heart's broken. Just broken," the woman told CNN affiliate KOVR on Monday , withholding her name. "Lived here 13 years and I've loved it, but I don't think I can go through this again," she said.#RockyFire has grown to 54,000 acres & 5% contained. Nearly 2,000 firefighters tirelessly working to contain the fire pic.twitter.com/ynjDzuuL3d — CAL FIRE PIO Berlant (@CALFIRE_PIO) August 3, 2015The nearly two dozen California wildfires have torched more than 134,000 acres as of Tuesday morning, but the Rocky Fire accounts for almost half of that, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, or Cal Fire.The flames feed on drought-parched vegetation that hasn't seen fire in many years, Cal Fire says."This has been a very fast-moving wildfire, with the dry conditions and the weather not really cooperating with us over the past week," Cal Fire spokesman Daniel Berlant told CNN affiliate KCRAMore than 2,900 firefighters, 285 engines, four air tankers and 19 helicopters are battling the Rocky Fire, Cal Fire says. Berlant says that particular blaze is unique because of its burn rate, devouring 20,000 acres in about five hours, he said.Nearly 10,000 firefighters statewide are battling the flames.Most of the fires are more than 60% contained, but damage has been substantial in some cases. Fires in Southern California's San Bernardino County and Northern California's Alpine County have affected nearly 50,000 acres.Firefighter loses his own homeAt the Moose Lodge, evacuee Raymond Padilla told how authorities persuaded him to leave at 5 a.m. Monday.He said he was hesitant at first."I was told at least three times to get out. I didn't have a car, and my animals were stuck in the house. And I didn't want to leave, so I stayed there," Padilla told CNN affiliate KTXL . "And then I was told for the last time that I'm going to be arrested if I didn't leave, so I had to leave."Even those tasked with fighting the flames suffered losses.Volunteer firefighter Jeff Brusatori was battling the Fork Complex fires -- a set of numerous wildfires in Northern California east of Eureka -- when he learned the flames were headed toward his neighborhood late last week.He tried to call his wife to warn her, but couldn't get through, he told CNN affiliate KRCR"All the cell phones were down ... no calls were going through," Brusatori told KRCR on Monday. "I was able to get a hold of one of my guys on radio that was up here that started evacuating people. I told him go by my house and go tell my wife: Get the cats, get the dogs and what you can and get out."Brusatori's wife got out about five minutes before the flames overtook the home, KRCR reported.The couple lost everything that was in the home. He said he'll continue to battle the fire."Just trying to deal with these fires first. We'll deal with (the lost home) later," he said.Fighting fires on multiple frontsOther fires include the Frog Fire, which has burned about 4,200 acres since Thursday. Lower temperatures, higher humidity and clouds helped firefighters push containment to 20%, according to the national fire tracking website InciWeb. The Lake Fire in San Bernardino County burned more than 31,000 acres before it was contained.JUST WATCHED California wildfires claim first victim Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH California wildfires claim first victim 03:03Authorities also reported strides in fighting two other fires: the Willow Fire northeast of North Fork in the Sierra National Forest and the Cabin Fire east of Porterville in the Sequoia National Forest.The 5,700-acre Willow Fire was 70% contained Monday, and an evacuation order for some residents was being lifted.In the Sequoia National Forest, firefighters reported that rain had helped them establish fire lines against expected growth of the Cabin Fire, which has burned 2,600 acres since mid-July.Neither the Willow nor the Cabin fires has destroyed any structures, but six people have been injured in the Willow Fire.Temperatures in Sacramento and other areas of Northern California, where many of the fires are burning, have topped 100 degrees recently.Lightning has helped fuel the flames. There have been thousands of lightning strikes over the past several days, igniting hundreds of small wildfires in the northern part of the state.And the accompanying thunderstorms have produced little or no rain, Berlant said.