Plains, Georgia (CNN) It's an exceptional devotion for anyone: teaching Sunday school since age 18.When a former President does it, especially three days after treatment for brain cancer, the routine becomes extraordinary.A world will be listening with the worshipers to what former President Jimmy Carter will say about the mysteries of faith as his own life hangs in the balance in his public battle with cancer at age 90.Carter's Bible talks this weekend will surely draw a bigger audience than usual in his hometown of Plains, where he lives with his wife of 69 years, Rosalynn.Even before Carter announced Thursday that his brain has four spots of advanced melanoma, his classes on the holy book have often drawn so many visitors that Plains, population 650, swells to 800 people.Radiation treatment, then back to churchThe weekend's audiences will surely be listening for a lifetime of meaning from Carter, now that he began cancer treatment with radiation to his brain on Thursday.JUST WATCHED President Jimmy Carter talks about his cancer diagnosis Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH President Jimmy Carter talks about his cancer diagnosis 03:53"And we have hundreds of visitors who come to see the curiosity of a politician teaching the Bible," he said, being interrupted by laughter at the press conference, "so I continue that."In the White House, Carter even found time to teach Sunday school on 14 occasions. As a governing president, he upheld the separation of church and state, but Carter has noted that "I tried to put into my services as president the teachings of Christ."Also a birthday celebration for first ladyIn the past 20 years, Carter has been holding his Sunday school in Maranatha Baptist Church, whose 300-seat sanctuary is expected to be overflowing with visitors, journalists, and Carter's family, including his children and grandchildren.Sunday's event will also celebrate former first lady Rosalynn Carter's 88th birthday, which was on August 18.Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Jimmy Carter embraces his wife, Rosalynn, after receiving the final news of his victory in the 1976 presidential election. Reflecting on his accomplishments while addressing his current cancer diagnosis , the former President said, "The best thing I ever did was marrying Rosalynn." Carter married Rosalynn Smith in 1946. "That's a pinnacle of my life," he said. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Carter speaks on election night at an Atlanta hotel in 1976. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Carter walks hand-in-hand with Rosalynn and his daughter, Amy, during his inaugural parade in Washington on January 21, 1977. It was the first time in history that a President had not ridden toward the White House in a carriage or automobile to celebrate taking the oath of office. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Carter holds his wife's hand during the inaugural parade. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Carter is sworn in by Chief Justice Earl Burger as the 39th President of the United States. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Carter addresses the media outside his residence in Plains, Georgia, next to his wife and Democratic presidential hopeful Richard Gephardt in March 1988. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years Carter shakes hands with Israeli Labour Party leader Shimon Peres in Jerusalem in March 1990. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years President Bill Clinton, Carter and other former U.S. Presidents stand with their wives during Richard Nixon's funeral in Yorba Linda, California, in April 1994. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years The Carters wave to the audience during the Democratic National Convention in July 2004. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years The Carters attend the grand opening ceremony of the William J. Clinton Presidential Center in Little Rock, Arkansas, in November 2004. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter through the years The Carters attend a MusiCares gala honoring Bob Dylan in February. Hide Caption 11 of 11One Carter grandson, Jason Carter, a former Georgia state senator, has already declared the Sunday celebration as "oversubscribed."Carter's fight against cancer also involves his liver, where doctors have already removed 85 cubic centimeters of his liver, roughly 10% of the organ, he said at the Carter Center.That surgery led doctors to the "four spots of melanoma" on his brain, about 2 millimeters each. In addition to Thursday's radiation treatment, Carter will receive four treatments of the drug pembrolizumab at three-week intervals, the Carter Center said. There could be other radiation treatments, but none are now scheduled.A one-man attractionHe began teaching Sunday school there several years later and has delivered well more than 600 lessons at the church, members said.No reservations are accepted for Carter's Sunday school, but the church has an overflow room in its fellowship hall where a 36-inch TV set captures Carter's class in the sanctuary.JUST WATCHED Key moments from Jimmy Carter's press conference Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Key moments from Jimmy Carter's press conference 02:36Busloads of tourists regularly make the pilgrimage to hear Carter talk about Scripture. The seven-room Plains Historic Inn is booked months in advance, and its country diner bustles, tourism officials said.The former leader of the free world amounts to an international attraction for the small town.Carter and his wife even allow visitors to later take a picture with them, but only after both Sunday school and worship are completed, the church said. The U.S. Secret Service provides security for the couple, and all visitors are subject to a search.School to focus on two ScripturesOn Sunday, Carter's teaching will focus on two passages of the Bible.One scripture is Acts 15:36-41 (King James version), which speaks of Paul and Barnabas, after teaching the word of God, proposing that they "visit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of the Lord and see how they do."JUST WATCHED Jimmy Carter: I thought I had a few weeks left Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jimmy Carter: I thought I had a few weeks left 00:59Saul had previously told his son and "attendants" to kill David, so he and Abishai ostensibly have every reason to kill Saul when they find him sleeping in a ditch with a spear.Abishai really wants to kill Saul, but David tells him, "The Lord forbid that I should stretch forth mine hand against the Lord's anointed."Saul is really grateful and promises, "I will no more do thee harm, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this day."