(CNN) For some Kentucky couples -- and couples across America -- the battle for same-sex marriage is far from over.For the first time, a Kentucky county clerk is appealing an order to issue same-sex marriage licenses despite the Supreme Court ruling requiring her to do so.On Monday, Federal District Judge David Bunning ordered a temporary stay on the issuing of marriage licenses by the Rowan County Clerk's Office while the appeal is pending, according to court documents.David Moore and David Ermold are one of at least four couples who were refused a marriage license by the Rowan County Clerk in Morehead, Kentucky.They have been together for the past 17 years and have lived in Rowan County for the past 10 years. They attempted to get a marriage license twice, first in July and for a second time in August . They recorded both their attempts and posted them to social media.The footage shows the couple presenting the clerk's office with a letter from Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear and a copy of the Supreme Court ruling that legalized same-sex marriage nationwide in June."This is how gay people are treated in this country, this is what it's like, this is their experience, this is how it feels," Ermold said in an emotional statement after being denied for the second time.Kim Davis, the Rowan County Clerk, believes it is within her First Amendment rights to deny the same-sex licenses based on her religious beliefs. She has vowed to continue to deny them, despite being ordered to grant licenses by Beshear and a federal court judge.Photos: Same-sex couples say 'I do' Photos: Same-sex couples say 'I do' After a journey toward marriage equality, couples across the nation are now able to make their love and commitment legal and have just begun to celebrate. For many, the road that led to the Supreme Court ruling was long and hard fought, which makes the celebration even sweeter. Ray Fallon, left, and Steven Rosen, right, embrace on their wedding day at Plymouth Church, New York, where they had a small ceremony in the presence of family and friends. Their wedding was photograped by Rosen's friend Alan Barnett Hide Caption 1 of 9 Photos: Same-sex couples say 'I do' Nathania, left, and Ilana Horowitz admire Ilana's pregnant belly carrying twins. They are both social workers living in Queens, New York, and have been together for five years. They are expecting a boy and a girl. Having their marriage nationally recognized gives their family security, Nathania said. Steven Rosen photographed their wedding day. Hide Caption 2 of 9 Photos: Same-sex couples say 'I do' The timing of the Supreme Court ruling could not have been better for Drew Montalvo, left, and Eric Hanser. A year-and-a-half prior, they set their wedding date for June 27, 2015, without the slightest idea of what was to come the day before. Montalvo is an internationally recognized DJ, but he is in the process of being known by a different name. In what he describes as a progressive effort, Montalvo will be taking his husband's last name. They said "I do" on the barrier island of Fire Island Pines in New York, as captured by Lotus Wedding Photography Hide Caption 3 of 9 Photos: Same-sex couples say 'I do' For Cheryl Curtis, left, and Nina Welch, right, of Missouri, the journey to get married took them to Palm Coast, Florida, where they exchanged vows on May 10, 2015. They have been together for 11 years and enjoy going on road trips that take them to new, undiscovered places. Photo by A. Harris Photography Hide Caption 4 of 9 Photos: Same-sex couples say 'I do' Robert Ungemach, left, and Keith Emmons, right, of Dallas have been together for 19 years and said they never thought they would see same-sex marriage legal in their lifetime. They had a commitment ceremony in 2004 in Hawaii and will legally say "I do" in a Gatsby-themed wedding in August. They are having custom-made wedding rings that feature Koa wood from Hawaii and the gold from Ungemach's great grandparents' wedding rings, who emigrated from Lithuania. Photo by Steven Rosen. Hide Caption 5 of 9 Photos: Same-sex couples say 'I do' Minneapolis couple Gregory Weber, left, and James Barnett thrive on the spontaneous moments in life. After a surprise trip to New York City, Broadway shows and a walk to the Lincoln Center, Weber proposed to Barnett on May 20, 2015. That night the couple of 10 years celebrated amongst close friends, but the party had just begun. Two days later, the couple exchanged vows on the landscape of New York City's High Line, as captured by Steven Rosen Photography. Hide Caption 6 of 9 Photos: Same-sex couples say 'I do' Charlotte Soucey, left, and Lauren Watts originally eloped to Hawaii in 2013, but wanted to share their commitment with loved ones and opted for a second ceremony one year later in Ocala, Florida. They have been together for three years and Watts will soon be taking Soucey's last name. Photo by A. Harris Photography Hide Caption 7 of 9 Photos: Same-sex couples say 'I do' After 13 years together, Greg Smith, left, and Jack O'Leary, right, officially wed in Boston on their anniversary, June 6, 2015. The ceremony was officiated by O'Leary's twin brother Tom O'Leary, center, captured by Lisa's Loupe Photography . After the wedding they took the celebration to Paris where they had a second ceremony during Paris Gay Pride. Hide Caption 8 of 9 Photos: Same-sex couples say 'I do' Long Beach, New York, couple Lauren, left, and Christine Rapkin smile on their wedding day June 25, 2015, in Puerto Morelos, Mexico. They have been together for eight years and wed the day before the landmark Supreme Court decision. Christine is a critical care nurse and Lauren is an event planner and together they enjoy kayaking, beach volleyball and hiking with their dog. Photo courtesy Nicole Barr Photography. Hide Caption 9 of 9"Our form of government will not survive unless we, as a society, agree to respect the U.S. Supreme Court's decisions, regardless of our personal opinions. Davis is certainly free to disagree with the court's opinion, as many Americans likely do, but that does not excuse her from complying with it," Bunning's August 12 order reads.Davis filed an appeal on Bunning's order the same day it was issued, according to Liberty Counsel, a litigation organization that is representing Davis. She also stopped issuing marriage licenses to anyone, gay or straight. The organization believes that forcing Davis to issue same-sex marriage licenses would be a violation of her religious convictions."My Kentucky constitution that I took the oath to uphold in January stated that marriage is between one man and one woman. And that is the constitution that I have vowed to uphold," Davis told CNN affiliate WSAZ"This is a much bigger battle than one small county or two small counties that are standing up for what they believe in."She followed up Wednesday with an emergency motion to a U.S. appeals court seeking a second stay on the marriage licenses while the appeal is pending.Meanwhile, the ACLU is representing four couples -- two gay and two straight -- who were denied licenses after Davis decided to stop issuing them all together."[Davis] is a public servant, and she's supposed to serve all of the public. It's a part of her job to issue marriage licenses, and issuing marriage licenses doesn't mean that she endorses anybody's marriage," James Esseks, director of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender & HIV Project at the ACLU, told CNN.Esseks believes Davis is among a "handful of resisters.""National polling shows that most people in this country feel that same-sex couples should be able to get married and are fine with it," Esseks said.While the overwhelming majority of same-sex couples can easily obtain marriage licenses, the pockets of resistance that still exist could lead to a new round of court battles that impact how the Supreme Court's ruling is implemented around the country.Other cases in the United StatesIn Alabama, 13 of the state's 67 counties have stopped issuing marriage licenses altogether. State Sen. Greg Albritton has proposed a bill that would take the state out of the marriage business by getting rid of licenses issued by probate judges. Instead, couples would enter into marriage contracts that they would file on their own with a probate court.But gay couples are fighting back as well.In Granbury, Texas, Jim Cato and Joe Stapleton were initially denied a license by Hood County clerk Katie Lang in July."The religious doctrines to which I adhere compel me to personally refrain from issuing same-sex marriage licenses," Lang said in a statement. "I am grateful that the First Amendment continues to protect the sincerely held religious beliefs of public servants like me."Lang eventually allowed a deputy to issue the license, but Cato and Stapleton sued for damages. Their attorneys announced Monday afternoon that Hood County had settled with them for $43,872.10. They had waited 27 years to get married, according to their lawsuit.As for Ermold and Moore, they are prepared to take their fight to the end, confident that their patience will eventually be rewarded."We waited for years to get married, we've been together forever and we waited," said Ermold. "He (Moore) wanted to wait until it was legal and recognized in all the states."