(CNN) Tensions remain high between North and South Korea. Police search a KISS member's home. And say hello to Hurricane Danny.It's Friday, and here are five things to know for your new day.KOREAN PENINSULA: Things are definitely heating up between the Koreas. In the North, leader Kim Jong Un has ordered military units to enter a "wartime state" after the exchange of artillery fire with the South. Meanwhile the South warned early today that it would retaliate strongly to any additional provocations from the North. The Pentagon, of course, is closely monitoring this latest flare up between the two nations.JUST WATCHED North and South Korea exchange fire at border Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North and South Korea exchange fire at border 02:02GENE SIMMONSHouse searched: The KISS rocker's The KISS rocker's house was searched last night by the L.A. Police Department, but authorities said Simmons and his family are not suspects. No details on any alleged crime were revealed, but the division of the LAPD that handles online crimes against children executed the warrant, and Simmons' publicist said the police visit was connected with a crime that may have occurred on the property last year while Simmons was away on tour.Thanks for your support. We couldn't be more horrified that someone used our residence for such heinous crimes. Law enforcement is on it. — Mrs ShannonTSimmons (@shannonleetweed) August 21, 2015JARED FOGLESubway shocker: Jared Fogle's downfall started with an inappropriate quip eight years ago. That's what Jared Fogle's downfall started with an inappropriate quip eight years ago. That's what Rochelle Herman told Anderson Cooper last night, as she recounted what the former Subway pitchman said to her at a health event in Florida in 2007 so disturbed her that she went to the police. She eventually agreed to wear a wire to record her conversations with Fogle and gather evidence against him for the FBI.JUST WATCHED Informant shares details about Jared Fogle Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Informant shares details about Jared Fogle 05:55HURRICANE DANNYOh, Danny boy: We finally have the first hurricane of the season. Danny became a We finally have the first hurricane of the season. Danny became a Category 1 hurricane yesterday, and it looks like it will reach the Leeward Islands by Monday. Danny is considered small for a hurricane, with hurricane-force winds extending only 10 miles from its center. Is mid-August pretty late to be getting the first hurricane of the season? Yes, it is, but this late start was also expected, in part because of this year's strong El Nino, which is causing strong wind shears in the Atlantic and hindering cyclone development.JUST WATCHED Danny becomes first hurricane of the Atlantic season Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Danny becomes first hurricane of the Atlantic season 01:15ASHLEY MADISON HACKEmail exposure: The hack heard 'round the world has claimed its first celebrity victim: Josh Duggar. The disgraced reality TV star The hack heard 'round the world has claimed its first celebrity victim: Josh Duggar. The disgraced reality TV star apologized yesterday after being outed as one of the 32 million people who used the cheating website. He called himself the "biggest hypocrite ever" and blamed it all on Internet porn. And Duggar's not the only one with an Ashley Madison problem: Defense Secretary Ash Carter says the U.S. military is " looking into " service members' use of the website after more than 15,000 government-connected email accounts were included in the personal details published by hackers. Uh-oh.