(CNN) Since the days when George Washington was enamored with Sally Fairfax, presidents have contended with rumors of extramarital affairs, but without proof, the shadow of a doubt has worked in their favor.Then along came DNA testing. It has tossed uncertainty out the window, most recently with the help of a former president's grandniece who spoke to CNN's "New Day" on Friday.The same technology that confirmed the source of a stain on Monica Lewinsky's blue dress has now made its way into the history books to air the laundry of another president, Warren G. Harding, who served from 1921 to his death in 1923.Before he became the 29th president, Harding, a Republican, very apparently fathered a love child with Nan Britton, 31 years his junior.Harding's descendants persistently denied the claim until this year, when his grandniece Abigail Harding and grandnephew Peter Harding decided to it was time for accountability. They owed it to Britton's descendants, Abigail Harding told "New Day.""One thing that everyone deserves to know is who they are, if they can. Where they come from. Who their ancestors are," she said. So, she and her cousin, Peter, contacted Jim Blaesing, Britton's great-grandson.Family resistancePhotos: 12 presidential scandals Photos: 12 presidential scandals IRS targeting | 2013 – Officials in the Obama administration's Internal Revenue Service came under fire after revelations that workers in its Cincinnati office targeted for extra scrutiny tea party and conservative groups applying for 501(c)(4) tax-exempt status. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: 12 presidential scandals Benghazi | 2012 – President Barack Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton came under intense scrutiny about the handling of the investigation of the attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, that led to the death of Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other embassy employees. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: 12 presidential scandals Iraq War | 2003 – When President George W. Bush addressed the nation aboard the USS Abraham Lincoln in May of 2003, standing in front of a "Mission Accomplished" banner, few expected that the U.S. involvement in the deadly Iraq War would last for another eight years. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: 12 presidential scandals CIA/Plame leak | 2003 – Former CIA covert agent Valerie Plame Wilson had her identity revealed by George W. Bush's Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage after her husband wrote a scathing op-ed in The New York Times. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: 12 presidential scandals Monica Lewinsky | 1998 – President Bill Clinton was ultimately impeached by Congress after he lied under oath about an affair he had with White House intern Monica Lewinsky. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: 12 presidential scandals Iran/Contra pardons | 1992 – President George H. W. Bush pardoned former Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger and five other officials who served under Ronald Reagan for their involvement in trading arms for hostages in Iran. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: 12 presidential scandals Iran-Contra | 1986 – Senior officials working for President Ronald Reagan secretly arranged for the sale of military weapons to Iran with the hope that American hostages held there would be released and the proceeds could be used to fund the Contras fighting in a rebellion in Nicaragua -- a violation of the Boland Act that expressly prohibited U.S. funding of the rebels. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: 12 presidential scandals Iran hostage crisis | 1979 – For 444 days -- ending in what would be the final year of his presidency -- President Jimmy Carter sought to gain the release of 52 Americans held hostage at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran, Iran. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: 12 presidential scandals Watergate pardons | 1974 – In one of his first acts as president, Gerald Ford granted "a full, free and absolute pardon" to former President Richard Nixon for all crimes he may have committed while president, including his involvement in the Watergate scandal. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: 12 presidential scandals Watergate | 1974 – President Richard Nixon resigned his office after being implicated in a cover-up following a burglary at political offices in the Watergate building. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: 12 presidential scandals Agnew resigns | 1973 – Spiro T. Agnew, who served as vice president under President Richard Nixon, resigned his position after being indicted for bribery charges, becoming the first U.S. vice president in history to resign under criminal charges. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: 12 presidential scandals Pentagon Papers | 1971 – The Pentagon Papers, a top-secret document that detailed U.S. decisions leading up to the Vietnam War, were leaked to The New York Times by military analyst Daniel Ellsberg. The Nixon administration obtained an injunction to stop their publication. Hide Caption 12 of 12"His family was nervous and very mistrustful, and they didn't want to be hurt," Abigail Harding said. There were also misgivings from some of Harding's descendants. "One branch of the family ... was opposed to digging up the past."But Peter and Abigail Harding wanted to know, and Blaesing was eager to vindicate his ancestors' claim of the relationship. So, Abigail, who had already done a genetic profile with Ancestry.com suggested Blaesing do the same."Right before the results came back, we had a little nagging fear, you know, what if the results came back negative," Abigail Harding said. Then she got a message to her Ancestry account. "It said, 'You have a second cousin,'" she said.The tests indicated kinship with 99.9% accuracy. Blaesing called her. "The first thing he said was, 'Hi, cousin.'"They are shooting for a family get-together in March.President Harding's loversThe revelation of the love child did not besmirch a pristine reputation, as Harding has not been a stranger to scandal. And Britton was also not his only mistress.Harding already had to manage his reputation after marrying Florence Kling De Wolfe in 1891. She was a divorcée, which was frowned upon in polite society at the time, and many considered it adultery.But during his marriage and parallel to the affair with Britton, Harding was also seeing Carrie Fulton Phillips, the wife of a store owner in Ohio. They were lovers from 1905 until 1920, just before Harding took office, according to the Library of CongressLast year, the Library of Congress confirmed their affair beyond a doubt, when it released their love letters, which contained salacious details.Harding may have written similar letters to Britton, but she claimed she destroyed them at his request.Harding's political scandalsThen there were the political scandals of the Harding administration.Secretary of the Interior Albert Bacon Fall secretly leased federal oil reserves to big oil companies, triggering what became known as the Teapot Dome scandal. Shortly thereafter, Harding received word that political friends were using their positions in government to enrich themselves.His health declined, and Harding died of a heart attack while traveling in the West with Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover.After Harding's death, Nan Britton was confronted with the cold fact that he had made no provisions for the care of their daughter, Elizabeth Ann.Tell-all bookPartly to raise money, Britton took her story public a few years later with a titillating book titled "The President's Daughter."It described love romps with Harding, and said that he set her up in a house in New Jersey when he was a senator. Elizabeth Ann was born in October 1919, not in a hospital, but in that dwelling, Britton wrote. Everything had to stay under wraps.Harding secretly sent her money for support, the book claimed.But Harding's family scorned the book and the woman, and much of the public came down on the side of the deceased president's reputation. Britton was branded a liar.So it stood for 90 years, and the story was handed down through Harding's lineage."We had always [all] our lives been told -- it wasn't true -- that Nan released that book for smear purposes, that Harding had mumps and was sterile," Abigail Harding said. "I said OK, and I'd repeat that answer -- I remember -- when people were asking."But Britton's book fell into the right hands generations after she wrote it. Peter Harding read it. Abigail Harding had collected it as a bit of presidential memorabilia."Peter said to me, 'You need to read this, my gut feeling is that she's telling the truth,'" Abigail Harding said.The positive legacyPhotos: Presidents of the United States Photos: Presidents of the United States George Washington was the first President of the United States, serving from 1789 to 1797. He also served as commander-in-chief of the Continental Army, and he has the distinction of being the only President unanimously elected by the Electoral College. Hide Caption 1 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States The second U.S. President, John Adams, served from 1797 to 1801. He was also the first vice president of the United States, and he was the first President to reside in the White House, moving in on November 1, 1800, while the White House was still under construction. Hide Caption 2 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Thomas Jefferson, the third President (1801-1809), was the principal author of the Declaration of Independence. While President, Jefferson doubled the size of the United States by purchasing the Louisiana Territory from France in 1803. Hide Caption 3 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States James Madison, the fourth President (1809-1817), was nicknamed the "Father of the Constitution." During his presidency, the first formal declaration of war was enacted -- the War of 1812 with Great Britain. Hide Caption 4 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States James Monroe (1817-1825) was the last of the Founding Fathers to be elected President. During his seventh State of the Union address, he outlined a foreign policy that warned European powers against further colonization of or meddling in the Western Hemisphere. This was later known as the Monroe Doctrine. Hide Caption 5 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States John Quincy Adams (1825-1829) was the son of second President John Adams. He was the only President to serve in the House of Representatives after serving as President. Hide Caption 6 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Andrew Jackson (1829-1837) was the only President to serve in both the American Revolution and the War of 1812. He is also the only President to have been a former prisoner of war: Jackson was 13 when became a courier during the Revolutionary War, and he was later captured by the British. Hide Caption 7 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Martin Van Buren (1837-1841) was the first President to be born a U.S. citizen. Previous Presidents were born before the United States was a country, making them colonists and, consequently, citizens of Great Britain. Hide Caption 8 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States William Henry Harrison (1841) probably had only just finished unpacking his things at the White House when he died of pneumonia one month into his term. Harrison was the first U.S. President to die while in office, and he had the shortest tenure ever of any commander-in-chief. Hide Caption 9 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States John Tyler's term (1841-1845) saw several presidential firsts. He was the first vice president to succeed office after the President died, he was the first to lose his wife while in office, and he was the first to marry while in office. Hide Caption 10 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States James K. Polk (1845-1849) oversaw the greatest expansion of territory of any President in history. The expansion included what would become the future states of Texas and California. Polk also negotiated with Britain to establish the boundaries of the Oregon Country. Hide Caption 11 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Zachary Taylor (1849-1850), aka "Old Rough and Ready," was a hero in the Mexican-American War. Mystery surrounds his actual cause of death from a stomach ailment. Did he just eat too many cherries, or was it murder? The 1991 exhumation of his body proved it wasn't arsenic poisoning at least. Hide Caption 12 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Millard Fillmore (1850-1853) was the last President who was neither a Democrat or a Republican. He helped pass the Compromise of 1850, legislation that included the Fugitive Slave Act and California's admission to the Union as a free state. Hide Caption 13 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Franklin Pierce (1853-1857) was the first President to not get his party's nomination for re-election. He signed the controversial Kansas-Nebraska Act, which allowed the people there to decide whether to allow slavery. This worsened the tension between the North and South. Hide Caption 14 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States James Buchanan (1857-1861) was the only President who never married. He failed to prevent seven pro-slavery states from seceding during his term. Hide Caption 15 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Abraham Lincoln (1861-1865), purveyor of tall top hats and log cabins, preserved the Union during the Civil War and freed the slaves through the Emancipation Proclamation. He was assassinated by actor John Wilkes Booth, a Confederate sympathizer. Hide Caption 16 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Andrew Johnson's (1865-1869) trial by impeachment in the U.S. Senate resulted in his acquittal by a single vote. History gives him a terrible performance review: His plan for post-war Reconstruction failed, and he had little support from Congress or the public. Hide Caption 17 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Tasked with unifying the country after the Civil War, Ulysses S. Grant (1869-1877) established the Department of Justice to protect the rights of freed slaves. He also authorized the military to fight the Ku Klux Klan and successfully lobbied for the 15th Amendment, granting voting rights to black men. Hide Caption 18 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Rutherford B. Hayes (1877-1881) promoted women's rights, signing legislation that allowed female lawyers to argue Supreme Court cases. He introduced the White House Easter Egg Roll as a spring tradition and established the first presidential library. Hide Caption 19 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Just four months into his term, James Garfield (1881) was shot by a disgruntled lawyer who'd aspired to join the administration as a diplomat. The President was taken to the Jersey Shore, where doctors hoped the ocean air would help him recover. He died two weeks later. Hide Caption 20 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Chester Arthur (1881-1885) signed a bill mandating a merit-based system for hiring public workers. The idea was to curb patronage and politically motivated appointments. Hide Caption 21 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Grover Cleveland (1885-1889; 1893-1897) was the first and only commander-in-chief to serve two non-consecutive terms. He was also the first bachelor President to be married at the White House. Hide Caption 22 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Benjamin Harrison (1889-1893) signed into law the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, which authorized the government to fine large corporations for price fixing and other corrupt business practices. Hide Caption 23 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States William McKinley (1897-1901) led the country through the Spanish-American War, a three-month conflict that began with the sinking of the USS Maine and ended with Cuban independence. During the beginning of McKinley's second term, he was fatally shot by an anarchist. Hide Caption 24 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States At 42, Theodore Roosevelt (1901-1909) was the youngest man to take the oath of office. A progressive reformer and environmental advocate, Roosevelt brought lawsuits against corporate trusts, taking on business giants to level the playing field for the working class. Hide Caption 25 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States William Howard Taft (1909-1913) also served as the Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court in his post-presidency years. During his re-election bid, he managed to win only eight of 531 electoral votes -- the poorest performance of an incumbent president seeking re-election. Hide Caption 26 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Woodrow Wilson (1913-1921) was awarded the 1919 Nobel Peace Prize for proposing and creating the League of Nations. But he was never able to convince the United States to join. Although he was first opposed to a federal amendment allowing women to vote, Wilson shifted his position during his second term and the 19th Amendment was ratified in 1920. Hide Caption 27 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Warren G. Harding's term (1921-1923) was cut short by his sudden death from a cerebral hemorrage. Harding captured 60% of the popular vote in 1920, marking the largest presidential landslide to date. Hide Caption 28 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Calvin Coolidge (1923-1929) served as vice president until the death of Warren G. Harding. His 1924 campaign slogan was "Keep Cool with Coolidge," and his nickname was "Silent Cal" because of his reputation as a man of few words. Hide Caption 29 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Herbert Hoover (1929-1933) was inaugurated on the year of the stock market crash that sent the country into the Great Depression. Although Hoover pushed for money to be appropriated for large-scale projects, he opposed federal relief payments directly to individuals. The national economy never recovered during his term, and the shantytowns that developed were nicknamed "Hoovervilles." Hide Caption 30 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Franklin D. Roosevelt (1933-1945) was the only President elected to the office four times. During his 12 years as President, he championed numerous social programs and measures, including the creation of the Tennessee Valley Authority, the Civilian Conservation Corps and Social Security. Roosevelt contracted polio at age 39 and never recovered the use of his legs. Hide Caption 31 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Harry S. Truman (1945-1953) served as vice president for 82 days before the unexpected death of Roosevelt. He authorized the use of two atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Hide Caption 32 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Dwight D. Eisenhower (1953-1961) had been supreme commander of the European Allied forces during World War II, and he ordered the Normandy invasion on D-Day. His popular presidential campaign slogan was "I like Ike!" Hide Caption 33 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States John F. Kennedy (1961-1963) was the first Roman Catholic President. He was assassinated in his first term, which was marked by the signing of the Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty, the creation of the Peace Corps, the disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion, and the beginning of military involvement in Vietnam. Hide Caption 34 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Lyndon B. Johnson (1963-1969) was vice president under John F. Kennedy and took the oath of office on a plane after Kennedy was assassinated. In 1964, Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act, the landmark legislation that banned segregation and discrimination based on race and gender. The law was a cornerstone of Johnson's vision of a "Great Society" that also included a "war on poverty." Hide Caption 35 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Richard Nixon (1969-1974) became the first President to resign from office as he faced impeachment for his involvement in the Watergate scandal. Nixon made strides in domestic policy, proposing legislation that resulted in the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency. Abroad, he established relations with China and a détente in Soviet relations. Hide Caption 36 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Gerald Ford (1974-1977) had been appointed vice president by Nixon after Spiro Agnew was forced to resign. He then became President when Nixon himself resigned. Remembered mainly for his pardon of Nixon and his physical clumsiness, Ford was not elected to a second term. Hide Caption 37 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Jimmy Carter (1977-1981) brokered the 1978 Camp David Accords, the agreement that led to a peace treaty between Israel and Egypt. At home, Carter's presidency was plagued by inflation and unemployment, and he lost his bid for a second term amid the hostage crisis in Iran. Hide Caption 38 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Ronald Reagan (1981-1989) was the only actor ever elected President, and his talent as a speaker earned him the moniker "the great communicator." An affable Republican who wooed many Roosevelt Democrats, the staunchly anti-communist Reagan is seen as having played a large part in the collapse of the Soviet Union. Hide Caption 39 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States George H.W. Bush (1989-1993) was a former CIA director and served two terms as vice president under Ronald Reagan. His approval rating at home soared after he led an international coalition to oust Iraq from Kuwait, and communism in Eastern Europe fell on his watch. But he lost his bid for re-election amid a sluggish economy and after reneging on a promise not to raise taxes. Hide Caption 40 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Bill Clinton (1993-2001) ran on the slogan, "It's the economy, stupid." Plagued by various scandals -- including accusations of sexual impropriety -- he was the second president to be impeached. He was acquitted in 1999. Hide Caption 41 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States George W. Bush (2001-2009) is the son of former President George H.W. Bush. His presidency was largely defined by his response to the 9/11 terrorist attacks. In 2003, he ordered the invasion of Iraq on suspicion that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. Hide Caption 42 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Barack Obama (2009-2017) became the first African-American to hold the office of President. He took the oath of office amid the Great Recession, the biggest economic challenge since the Great Depression. Under the Affordable Healthcare Act, millions of uninsured Americans have gotten health insurance. Hide Caption 43 of 44 Photos: Presidents of the United States Real estate mogul and reality television star Donald Trump was sworn into office in 2017. His slogan "Make America Great Again," became the central theme of his campaign. Hide Caption 44 of 44She doesn't condone her presidential ancestor's behavior, but she doesn't condemn him either. "A lot of presidents have had dirty laundry, and we didn't hear about it so much. But it's out there," she said.Rumors of infidelity followed Lyndon Johnson, John F. Kennedy and Dwight Eisenhower, she pointed out.They all did good things in office, and so did her presidential ancestor, she said. His lack of conventionality may have helped.Harding supported women's right to vote, presided over an economic recovery after the Depression of 1920-21, and worked to smooth over relations with Latin America. And he was the first president to speak out in the South on behalf of civil rights for African-Americans, according to the University of Richmond.On a stop in Birmingham, Alabama, in 1921, Harding praised African-Americans for their service in World War I, which had ended a few years earlier. And he affirmed they were politically equal under the Constitution."Let the black man vote when he is fit to vote; prohibit the white man voting when he is unfit to vote," he told the crowd. When he called for an end to prejudice, black listeners, relegated to a segregated section, broke into cheers."He was pretty ahead of his time," Abigail Harding said.