Atlanta (CNN) A reporter and photographer at CNN Affiliate WDBJ-TV in Virginia were shot and killed during a live broadcast by former WDBJ reporter Vester Flanagan II. An outpouring of support and remembrance has flooded the social stratosphere in memory of Alison Parker and Adam Ward. Here is how you can share your support and cope with this tragedy.Scholarships to honor their livesAlison Parker graduated from Patrick Henry Community College and James Madison University.Scholarships at both schools have been established.Checks for the Alison Parker Memorial Scholarship at James Madison University Scholarship can be made payable to the JMU Foundation and sent to JMU Advancement Gifts and Records, MSC 3603, Harrisonburg, VA 22807 ATTN: Alison Parker Memorial ScholarshipThe Alison Bailey Parker Memorial Scholarship at Patrick Henry Community College will be awarded on an annual basis to a PHCC student who enters the Media Design and Production program.Donations for the Alison Bailey Parker Memorial Scholarship can be made online or by cash or check to the Patrick Henry Community College Foundation, 645 Patriot Avenue, Martinsville, VA 24112. For additional information, call (276) 656-0250.Social SolidaritySeveral memorials were held Wednesday night for WDBJ employees, and family and close friends have turned to Facebook and Twitter to share their grief.We didn't share this publicly, but Alison Parker and I were very much in love. We just moved in together. I am numb. We... Posted by Chris Hurst Wdbj on Wednesday, August 26, 2015Alison and Adam always had a fun time together. Here are some behind-the-scenes pictures. http://t.co/bglHxG2jXC pic.twitter.com/X74EflXqlz — WDBJ7 (@WDBJ7) August 26, 2015Journalists from across the country have turned to social media to express their support and grief using hashtags #WDBJ and #PrayForWDBJ and #WeStandWithWDBJ#WeStandWithWDBJ this morning & every morning. Keeping the #WDBJ news family in Virginia in our thoughts and prayers. pic.twitter.com/hrnRGIvljE — WSB-TV (@wsbtv) August 27, 2015WDBJ reporter Nadie Maeser called on the public to honor Parker and Ward by wearing their favorite colors Turquoise and Maroon.All - WDBJ7 Alison Parker's favorite color was turquoise. Adam Ward's was maroon (of course, for Virginia Tech) I made a... Posted by Nadine Maeser WDBJ7 on Wednesday, August 26, 2015Some are using tweets to encourage users to remember the victims instead of sharing the footage of what Flanagan has done.What if we used social media to remember the victims rather than the murderer? #WDBJ #PrayersAndComfort — Ty Peteranetz (@Coach_Ty6) August 26, 2015Coping with tragedy"You send people into war zones and into dangerous situations, into riots and you worry that they're going to get hurt. You send somebody out to do a story on tourism, and this -- how can you ever expect something like this to happen? You use all the words, we are devastated, senseless, all the catchwords, but they all apply," WDBJ General Manager Jeffrey Marks told CNN "Legal View" anchor Ashleigh Banfield.