Are you affected by the wildfires? Share your photos with CNN iReport if you can do so safely.Clearlake Oaks, California (CNN) Wildfires like hot, dry weather. Firefighters prefer it cool and wet.On Tuesday, the weather gods sided with firefighters, as they battled the 100-square-mile Rocky Fire in Northern California.But on Wednesday, the weather was expected to turn dry again, siding once more with the wildfire, and fire officials were telling some 13,000 evacuated residents to stay away from their homes, as they expect the battle against the flames to continue into next week.That's not easy for some.Defying evacuation callJoe Welz initially defied Sunday's evacuation call, and instead stood up to Rocky's fierceness, trying to protect his home. But on Monday he caved, packed up his dog and left.JUST WATCHED Military planes on firefighting duty Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Military planes on firefighting duty 01:38"When you start seeing smoke plumes come up that are severe black, you know they're in the brush, and they're not too far away," Welz said."And when you see flames -- when you see flames, it's really time to leave!""This is very scary, and it's the first time something like this fire has happened," said Welz, a 27-year resident of Spring Valley in Colusa County.'In God's hands'Others are taking the danger to their homes in stride."If I start getting worked up, I know I need to put it in God's hands and the hands of the people fighting the fire," said Madeline Lewek-Franco, another Spring Valley resident. "And if my home goes, it's not the end of the world."Welz and Lewek-Franco found shelter at Moose Lodge 2284 in Clearlake Oaks, about 100 miles north of San Francisco, where tables overflowed with donated food to serve 200 evacuees who spent Monday night there or in their motor homes in the impromptu campground in the lodge's parking lot.A woman cried as she sat in a folding chair, looking at the smoke rising from hills on the horizon."My heart's broken. Just broken," the woman told CNN affiliate KOVR on Monday. "Lived here 13 years and I've loved it, but I don't think I can go through this again."Weather as firefighterA Pacific Ocean weather system dropped temperatures Tuesday, raised humidity and dumped rain in spots, forestry and firefighting agency Cal Fire said.Photos: California wildfires Photos: California wildfires Fires burn on a hill in Livermore, California, on Thursday, August 20. California has been battling numerous wildfires as its historic drought reaches a fourth year. Hide Caption 1 of 31 Photos: California wildfires The charred remains of a property is seen in Livermore on August 20. Hide Caption 2 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A firefighter climbs on the side of a hill while putting out hot spots in Livermore on August 20. Hide Caption 3 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Firefighter Mike Martel walks through smoke while working to clean up after a weekend fire that ravaged the Montebello Hills area near Los Angeles on Monday, August 17. Hide Caption 4 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Firefighters hose down the smoldering ruins of a building that was burned by the Warm Fire north of Castaic, California, on Sunday, August 16. Hide Caption 5 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A plane drops fire retardant on the Cabin Fire north of Asuza, California, on Saturday, August 15. Hide Caption 6 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A crew descends a scorched mountainside in the Angeles National Forest on August 15. Hide Caption 7 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A burn operation is seen during the Jerusalem Fire, near Lower Lake, California, on Friday, August 11. Hide Caption 8 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Flames from a backfire operation burn through a grove of trees as firefighters try to head off the Rocky Fire on Monday, August 3, near Clearlake, California. Hide Caption 9 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Firefighters look on as the Rocky Fire burns through trees on Sunday, August 2. Hide Caption 10 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A Cal Fire truck is driven away from flames as the Rocky Fire burns near Clearlake on August 2. Hide Caption 11 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Firefighters light backfires in an attempt to control the blaze near Clearlake on August 2. Hide Caption 12 of 31 Photos: California wildfires The Rocky Fire burns near Clearlake on August 2. Hide Caption 13 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Flames from the Rocky Fire burn through dry grass August 2 near Clearlake. Hide Caption 14 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Large plumes of smoke rise from the Rocky Fire on Saturday, August 1. Hide Caption 15 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A firefighting air tanker flies in front of the setting sun while battling the Rocky Fire on August 1. Hide Caption 16 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Heat marks are visible on an air-conditioning unit at a destroyed home in Lower Lake on August 1. Hide Caption 17 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Flames approach a house in Lower Lake on Friday, July 31. Hide Caption 18 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Firefighters spray a hose at a fire near Lower Lake on July 31. Hide Caption 19 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A firefighter prepares to douse spot fires in Lower Lake on July 31. Hide Caption 20 of 31 Photos: California wildfires As the Rocky Fire approaches, goats run from their pen after firefighters freed them on July 31. Hide Caption 21 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Trees and brush burn while firefighters battle the Wragg Fire near Winters, California, on Thursday, July 23. The fast-moving wildfire had scorched almost 7,000 acres in Napa and Sonoma counties, authorities said. Hide Caption 22 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A firefighting aircraft drops retardant on a ridge to combat the Wragg Fire on July 23. Hide Caption 23 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Flames from the Pines Fire burn on Saturday, July 18, in Wrightwood, California. The blaze was burning near Mount San Antonio, which is also called Mount Baldy for its snow-capped summit that's highly visible in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 24 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Slow-moving traffic fills the northbound lanes of Interstate 215 near Victorville, California, on Friday, July 17. The traffic was linked to the North Fire, which caused people to abandon their vehicles and flee as flames jumped the freeway. Hide Caption 25 of 31 Photos: California wildfires The North Fire burns July 17 near Interstate 15 in the Cajon Pass in San Bernardino County. Hide Caption 26 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Firefighters start a backfire along Baldy Mesa Road late on July 17. Hide Caption 27 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Smoke from a wildfire rises above Interstate 15 near San Bernardino, California, on July 17. Hide Caption 28 of 31 Photos: California wildfires The scorched remains of a truck destroyed by the North Fire are towed away near Victorville on July 17. Hide Caption 29 of 31 Photos: California wildfires A helicopter prepares to drop water over a fire near Oak Hills, California, on July 17. Hide Caption 30 of 31 Photos: California wildfires Flames rise over a cluster of homes in Oak Hills on July 17. Hide Caption 31 of 31As of Wednesday morning, the Rocky Fire gobbled up 68,300 acres in a region 50 miles north of the Bay Area.Firefighters contained only 20% of its vast size. It has taken 3,500 fire personnel, 327 fire engines, four air tankers and 19 helicopters to do so.At one point in the past week, the fire exploded to consume 20,000 acres in just five hours. Almost 7,000 structures are being threatened by the fire, authorities said.Future forecasts didn't look promising."Hotter drier conditions are expected to return during the day increasing the potential for fire activity throughout the fire area," Cal Fire said on its website.Fickle storm cloudsIn fact, the weather has sided mostly with the wildfires for the last four years in a historic drought that has blanketed California with parched, combustible brush.And when it comes to the fires, storm clouds are a mixed blessing. They sometimes bring rain that helps calm the blazes, or they slam down lightning bolts that ignite new flames.Recently, the clouds have delivered more curses than blessings.Thousands of lightning strikes over the past several days have started small wildfires in the northern part of the state, Cal Fire said. Their effect has greatly outweighed the benefits of the rain.24 wildfiresJUST WATCHED California wildfires claim first victim Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH California wildfires claim first victim 03:03The Rocky Fire is the biggest battle for firefighters by far, but just one of 24 against wildfires spread across the state in a worse-than-average wildfire season. It is challenging the wit and grit of nearly 10,000 firefighters and has killed one of them.Another firefighter got news that his home burned down while he battled a wildfire elsewhere, and six more people were injured in a fire.But overall, the fires have spared people's lives and health, and the flames are gradually losing the battle. Most of them are more than 60% contained.The current two dozen blazes range from dozens to thousands of acres in size, and have consumed more than 134,000 acres , but the Rocky Fire alone is responsible for half of it, Cal Fire said.And it has incinerated the most buildings -- 39 residences and 52 sheds, barns or garages.