(CNN) Little else stirred the American soul in the 20th century like four short words cried out across the National Mall in Washington on August 28, 1963 -- "I have a dream."Before Dr. Martin Luther King 's words echoed throughout Lincoln Memorial, he raised goose bumps inside a segregated school gym in North Carolina.And just like in Washington, the refrain "Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!" prompted roars and cheers from the audience of some 1,800 in Rocky Mount.Someone rolled audio tape during King's speech that day -- November 27, 1962, at Booker T. Washington High.That recording has been restored, digitized and was presented to the public this week by the English department of North Carolina State University.That speech was the birth of "I have a dream," said Jason Miller, who studies King's speeches at the university. "The first time he ever used the phrase 'I have a dream' was right here in North Carolina," he said.Hearing Dr. King liveHerbert Tillman remembers that day well.King was in Rocky Mount at the invitation of the local NAACP chapter.When Tillman walked into the gym at Booker T. Washington, he saw wall-to-wall people with anticipation in their faces."All of a sudden, Martin Luther King comes on stage. And when he comes on stage, everybody, and I mean everybody, got to their feet and got to hollering and jubilation with excitement," he said.King's way with words fascinated Tolokum Omokunde, who was also there."I'd never heard anybody put all those kind of words together and let them flow like liquid. And he was crystal clear, and he was saying that we can walk together," he recalled.King encouraged the crowd to dream past the reality of their oppression, segregation and belittlement.After King left, the reel-to-reel tape was stowed away, until recently, when someone stumbled upon it and handed it off to a local historian who handed it to Miller.Miller confirmed its authenticity, then sent it off to be digitized in Philadelphia by audio master George Blood, author of the Library of Congress' guide on audio restoration. He restored the recording as closely as possible to the original speech."Absolutely no overdubs, edits, or changes have been made to this recording in any way," the university said. "Now for the first time, this historic speech can be heard."'He practiced on us'Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. was best known for his role in the civil rights movement and nonviolent protests. His life's work has been honored with a national holiday, schools and public buildings named after him, and a memorial on the National Mall in Washington. Take a look back at the late civil rights leader's defining years. Here, King speaks in Washington in 1968, the year he was assassinated. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King outlines boycott strategies to his advisers and organizers on January 27, 1956. Seated are the Rev. Ralph Abernathy, left, and Rosa Parks, center, who was the catalyst for the protest of bus riders. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King sits for a police mugshot after his arrest for directing a citywide boycott of segregated buses on February 24, 1956. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King stands in front of a bus at the end of the Montgomery bus boycott in Montgomery, Alabama, on December 26, 1956. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King speaks during the Prayer Pilgrimage near the Reflecting Pool in Washington on May 17, 1957. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Accompanied by his wife, Coretta Scott, King leaves Harlem Hospital after being stabbed near the heart on September 20, 1958. The near-fatal incident occurred when he was autographing copies of his book at a Harlem bookstore. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King delivers a sermon at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta in September 1960. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King, his wife and children, Yolanda, 5, and Martin Luther III, 3, play the piano together in their living room in Atlanta in 1960. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Moderator John McCaffery, left, segregationist editor James J. Kilpatrick and King debate segregation in New York on November 11, 1960. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King addresses a crowd of demonstrators outside the Lincoln Memorial during the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom in Washington on August 28, 1963. He delivered his famous "I Have a Dream" speech to more than 250,000 people. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. President Lyndon B. Johnson talks with King and civil rights leaders at the White House. On July 2, 1964, Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act into law. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King speaks with Malcolm X at a press conference on March 26, 1964. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. In 1963, King became the first African-American to be named Time magazine's Man of the Year. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King receives the Nobel Prize for Peace from the president of the Nobel Prize committee, Gunnar Jahn, in Oslo, Norway, on December 10, 1964. At the time he was the youngest person to win the prize. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King and his wife lead a black voting rights march from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama, on March 30, 1965. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King addresses civil rights marchers in Selma in April 1965. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Mississippi patrolmen shove King during the 220-mile "March Against Fear" from Memphis, Tennessee, to Jackson, Mississippi, on June 8, 1966. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King signs the Degree Roll at Newcastle University after receiving an honorary Doctor of Civil Law degree, in Newcastle, England, on November 14, 1967. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King and comedian Bob Hope, right, talk at John F. Kennedy International airport in New York on November 14, 1967. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Dr. Ralph Abernathy, Jesse Jackson and others stand on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee, on April 4, 1968, pointing in the direction of the gunshots that killed King, who lies at their feet. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King's body is pictured on April 8, 1968, following his murder in Memphis. His wife, Coretta, led a silent march of 50,000 people through the streets of Memphis before making a televised speech at his funeral. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. The statue of King is pictured at a memorial in August 2013 in Washington, as thousands of people gathered to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, where King gave his "I Have a Dream" speech. Hide Caption 22 of 22King's speech at the North Carolina school -- at 55 minutes -- was longer than the Lincoln Memorial address. But the refrain was very similar -- in large chunks verbatim.Parts of the text had been moved around; local details that applied to Rocky Mount removed.But when Omokunde saw the Lincoln Memorial address on TV nine months later, it rang very familiar to him."I do think he practiced on us for his 'I have a dream' speech," he said.When he followed Dr. King on the screen, Omokunde began to move his lips in sync to the words of the refrain."I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal."