Story highlights July was the hottest month on record, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration saysNOAA predicts 2015 could be the hottest year on record(CNN) If you felt the heat this past July, you are hardly alone.July saw the highest average temperatures since record-keeping began -- globally, not just in the United States -- the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration reported Thursday.Globally, the first seven months of the year also had all-time highs. The latest global temperature data make it likely that 2015 will be the hottest year on record, the agency said.NOAA's findings follow reports by NASA and the Japan Meteorological Agency, which reached the same conclusion using their own data.Photos: What's causing climate change? Meet the top 10 villains Photos: What's causing climate change? Meet the top 10 villains Electricity and heat: 30.6% – Burning fossil fuels for electricity and heat is, by far, the main driver of climate change. Emissions from those sectors account for nearly a third of global greenhouse gas emissions, according to the World Resources Institute . These activities are the biggest climate villains, statistically speaking. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: What's causing climate change? Meet the top 10 villains Transportation: 14.8% – Transportation -- driving, flying and the like -- makes up nearly 15% of global climate-change pollution, according to 2012 data synthesized by WRI. It's the second-most important cause of dangerous global warming. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: What's causing climate change? Meet the top 10 villains Manufacturing and construction: 13.3% – Manufacturing and construction are less often discussed than transit, but they contribute nearly as much to climate change: 13.3% of emissions, WRI says. These activities are the third-biggest contributors of heat-trapping emissions. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: What's causing climate change? Meet the top 10 villains Agriculture: 11.1% – Likewise, our food systems are villains in the fight against climate change. Advocates say giving up meat, especially beef, would help curb greenhouse gases. Agriculture makes up 11.1% of global emissions, according to WRI. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: What's causing climate change? Meet the top 10 villains Other fuel combustion: 8.2% – Burning other types of fuel, including wood, accounts for 8.2% of emissions. Also included in this category are fuels burned in commercial and residential buildings, as well as burning fuel for agriculture and deep-sea fishing. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: What's causing climate change? Meet the top 10 villains Industrial processes: 5.8% – Industry adds 5.8% of global carbon and greenhouse gas emissions, according to WRI. Cement and aluminum production, shown here, are among the major contributors. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: What's causing climate change? Meet the top 10 villains Deforestation and land use changes: 5.7% – Forests trap carbon, so chopping down rainforests contributes considerably to the climate change problem. Estimates vary, but WRI says deforestation accounts for 5.7% of emissions linked to climate change. Other estimates put the number closer to 20%. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: What's causing climate change? Meet the top 10 villains Fugitive emissions: 5.3% – Gas flares, and other emissions associated with energy production, create 5.3% of greenhouse gas emissions. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: What's causing climate change? Meet the top 10 villains Waste: 3.1% – Landfills produce methane, which is a potent greenhouse gas. Our waste systems create 3.1% of global warming pollution, according to WRI. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: What's causing climate change? Meet the top 10 villains Bunker fuels: 2.2% – Some emissions can't be tied to a particular country. These "bunker fuels," in industry-speak, include ships in international waters as well as international flights, according to the World Resources Institute. They account for 2.2% of climate change emissions. Hide Caption 10 of 10Thursday's report "is reaffirming what we already know," NOAA climate scientist Jake Crouch said. "The world is warming. It's continuing to warm."Read More