(CNN) She heard them call her son a monster.She heard them say he cheated fate and deserves to die for his crimes.On Tuesday, the mother of a mass killer looked like the loneliest person in the world as she stood up in court and addressed the people her son has harmed.She said she prays for them to find some measure of peace.Arlene Holmes is the mother of James Eagan Holmes, the mentally ill 27-year-old grad student who fatally shot 12 people and wounded 70 others at a midnight show of "The Dark Knight Rises."Holmes' sentencing hearing, which enters its third and final day on Wednesday, revealed that the ripples of his violent act are lasting and reach far beyond the 82 people felled by his bullets.Arlene Holmes, seen in this July 2014 photo, told victims she is "very sorry that this tragedy happened."Friends, mothers, fathers, siblings, aunts and cousins all spoke about a loss that seems bottomless . They talked about sleepless nights, fear of crowds and a heavy darkness that can consume them without warning. They talked about stepping over bodies to escape and of seeing loved ones covered with blood. One mother talked about how she saw her daughter's organs exposed and wrapped in plastic as she lay on a hospital gurney, awaiting surgery that saved her life.Arlene Holmes told the shooting victims and their family members that she'd heard what they had to say.'We cannot feel the depth of your pain'"We are in a unique and unenviable position because we cry for James and we cry for thousands of people in Aurora," Holmes said. "We cannot feel the depth of your pain. We can only listen to everything you have expressed, and we pray for you. We pray for your peace, your peace with the sentence. We pray for your ability to sleep at night, and your ability to find a single moment of happiness when that happiness seems completely elusive."She apologized, saying she is "very sorry that this tragedy happened and that everyone has suffered so much." And, she said, her son, diagnosed as schizophrenic, is sorry, too.James Holmes appears in court for the sentencing phase in his trial in Centennial, Colorado."He said he feels remorse for his horrible actions," Holmes said. "But his ability to express his emotions has been impaired by disease and medication and we know it is very, very hard for people to see."Holmes said she and her husband, Robert, have spent the three years since the shooting massacre learning about mental illness. She said she regrets not knowing more about mental illness or seeing the signs in her son as he entered his teens. She wished she'd known that when he isolated himself from other people, that's when he most needed help."We should have known our family history better," she said. Relatives on both sides of the family, most notably her husband's twin sister, have been hospitalized in the past with mental illness, according to trial testimony.James Holmes has been convicted of 24 counts of murder -- two for each person he killed at the Century 16 multiplex in Aurora, Colorado, on July 20, 2012. The jury could not agree on a death sentence; there was a lone holdout. As a result, Holmes will spend the rest of his life in prison.Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Cynthia Davis, center, visits the roadside memorial set up for victims of the Colorado shooting massacre across the street from the Century 16 movie theater on Monday, July 30, 2012, in Aurora, Colorado. Twelve people were killed in the theater early July 20, 2012, during a screening of "The Dark Knight Rises." Suspect James Holmes was taken into custody shortly after the attack. More photos: Colorado movie theater shooting Hide Caption 1 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims People visit the roadside memorial set up for victims of the massacre on Monday. Hide Caption 2 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Visitors pray around a cross at the memorial across the street from the theater on Saturday, July 28. Hide Caption 3 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Jeremy Blocker displays a new tattoo honoring the victims. Hide Caption 4 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Members of Alex Sullivan's family embrace at a memorial across the street from the Century 16 movie theater on Thursday, July 26. Hide Caption 5 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Hello Kitty-themed flowers are sent to shooting victim Micayla Medek's funeral Thursday in Denver. Hide Caption 6 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Pallbearers carry Micayla Medek's coffin during her funeral at the New Hope Baptist Church on Thursday. Hide Caption 7 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims People visit a memorial across the street from the Century 16 movie theater on Thursday, July 26, in Aurora, Colorado. Hide Caption 8 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Angella Aquilis, left, and Maria Olivas mourn together at a makeshift memorial across the street from the Century 16 movie theater Wedesday, July 25. Hide Caption 9 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Yvonne Amaro, 9, prays for those injured and killed as she visits the memorial on Wednesday. Hide Caption 10 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Carrie Hensley, left, and Hailee Hensley mourn together on Wednesday. Hide Caption 11 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Kevin Flynn, left, Aurora Police top brass division chief, and Cmdr. Jack Daluz visit the makeshift memorial. Hide Caption 12 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A couple embraces as "Dark Knight Rises" star Christian Bale and his wife, Sandra Blazic, wait to place flowers at the memorial on Tuesday. Hide Caption 13 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Bale places flowers at the memorial while other mourners look on. Hide Caption 14 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Visitors pay tribute Tuesday, July 24, at the makeshift memorial. Hide Caption 15 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A cross stands at the makeshift memorial for victims across the street from the Century 16 theater on Tuesday. Hide Caption 16 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Greg Zanis of Aurora, Illinois, carries two of the 12 crosses he made for a makeshift memorial to the victims of last weekend's mass shooting at the Century 16 movie theater on Sunday, July 22. Hide Caption 17 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Greg Zanis writes the names of the victims of last weekend's mass shooting on the crosses before erecting them at the memorial across from the Century 16 movie theater on Sunday. Zanis, a carpenter, drove all night from Illinois to deliver the crosses. Hide Caption 18 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Parishioners pray during morning Mass, remembering victims of the theater shooting, at the Queen of Peace Catholic Church on Sunday. Hide Caption 19 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Angie Terry of Alabama prays next to a white wooden cross erected for victims. Hide Caption 20 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A man pauses before the crosses at the memorial near the Century 16 movie theater on Sunday. Hide Caption 21 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims President Barack Obama embraces Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper as Sen. Mark Udall, left, and Sen. Michael Bennet look on during a visit to the University of Colorado Hospital on Sunday. Hide Caption 22 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Mourners bow their heads in prayer during the vigil for the victims of the Aurora shooting. Hide Caption 23 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A woman is overcome with emotion during the vigil. Hide Caption 24 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Tiffany Garcia, right, and her 6-year-old daughter, Angelina Garcia, cry on Saturday, July 21, as they look at a memorial for the victims of Friday's shooting. Hide Caption 25 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims People pray at a cross erected at the makeshift memorial across the street from the Century 16 theater on Saturday. Hide Caption 26 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Family, friends and former classmates of movie theater shooting victim A.J. Boik gather for a memorial service at Gateway High School on Saturday. Hide Caption 27 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Boik and his girlfriend were at the midnight showing of 'The Dark Knight Rises' when a gunman killed Boik and 11 other people. Hide Caption 28 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Movie theater shooting victim A.J. Boik's girlfriend, Lasamoa Croft, center, embraces his mother during the memorial service. Hide Caption 29 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Eman Alexander, 17, pins a ribbon on his shirt while joining family, friends and former classmates to honor shooting victim A.J. Boik. Hide Caption 30 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Denise Toepel of Denver sheds tears while visiting a makeshift memorial across the street from the Century 16 movie theater on Saturday, July 21. Hide Caption 31 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Handwritten signs decorate the makeshift memorial across from the Century 16 movie theater on Saturday. Hide Caption 32 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Gerald Wright, 24, relights candles that have blown out at the victims' memorial across from the movie theater. Hide Caption 33 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Aviation Boatswain's Mate 3rd Class Jajuan Mangual lowers the American flag on the flight deck of the aircraft carrier USS George H.W. Bush to half-mast on Saturday. One U.S. Navy sailor was killed in the shooting and another injured. Hide Caption 34 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Two women mourn near the theater on Saturday. Hide Caption 35 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Alicia Prevette, left, and Paul Stepherson attend a vigil for the victims Friday at the Century 16 movie theater. Hide Caption 36 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A woman lights a candle at a makeshift memorial where the victims of the massacre are mourned. Hide Caption 37 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Mourners hold hands at a vigil near the theater. Hide Caption 38 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Mourners hug as they grieve the loss of the victims. Hide Caption 39 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A group of teenagers stand behind a sign that reads "Strength." Hide Caption 40 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Dara Anderson, left, and Monique Anderson cry during a candlelight vigil across the street from the crime scene. Hide Caption 41 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A woman holds a lit candle at a makeshift memorial. Hide Caption 42 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Marietta Perkins of Denver prays for victims and their families. Hide Caption 43 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Lonnie Delgado, right, hugs Heaven Leek during a prayer. Hide Caption 44 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A mourner grieves on the curb during a memorial service. Hide Caption 45 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims People hug during a vigil for the victims. Hide Caption 46 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Handwritten consolation letters lie beneath flowers at a makeshift memorial. Hide Caption 47 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Nathan Mendoza, left, and Melissa Clark sit on the grass during a vigil. Hide Caption 48 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Flags, flowers and candles make up a memorial site. Hide Caption 49 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Two mourners sit on the ground at a vigil. Hide Caption 50 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A sign prevents moviegoers from wearing masks or bringing in props to the AMC Arapahoe Crossing 16 movie theater in Aurora. Hide Caption 51 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A woman looks at a makeshift memorial after attending a candlelight vigil. Hide Caption 52 of 52The sentencing hearing was held to address Holmes' sentence for the other charges he was convicted of -- attempted murder and explosives counts. Judge Carlos A. Samour Jr. is expected to formally impose sentence on Wednesday morning.Nearly 100 people testified or offered victim impact statements that were read into the record. Monday belonged to the wounded and close relatives of the dead. On Tuesday, the circle of witnesses expanded to include people traumatized by what they saw in the theater.Veteran detective: Nothing can match this horrorA veteran Aurora homicide detective said nothing he has seen or expects to see can match the horror he witnessed inside that movie theater."All homicides are tragic," Detective Craig Appel said. "This case has affected me and colleagues more than any other. Usually in homicide cases, you deal with people who became victims because they made bad decisions. But these were innocent victims. How can one guy hurt so many people?"The hurt came in many forms. Some of the scars weren't physical, perhaps, but they can't be easily erased."No one should ever have to see the lifeless, blood-soaked body of a 6-year-old girl," said Mallory Baker, who went to the movie with her father. The 6-year-old was the shooting's youngest victim, Veronica Moser-Sullivan.Stephanie Davies told her mother, Erin Christen, that being inside the theater "was like being in the mouth of hell." She and a friend played dead until the shooting stopped. And then she climbed over bodies to reach her injured friend."The maximum sentence for the maximum evil, your honor," prosecutor George Brauchler insisted. "What that guy did he should not be spared one year, one month, one day, of what the maximum available sentence is."Brauchler said he is disappointed that the jury did not return a death sentence but respects the jury's decision. Still, he said, only a maximum sentence would acknowledge what the victims endured."When death walked into Theater 9, this guy attempted to murder everything that he lacked and everything that he wasn't -- courage, bravery, selflessness," Brauchler said.Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The public gets its first glimpse of James Holmes, then 24, the suspect in the Colorado theater shooting during his initial court appearance July 23, 2012. With his hair dyed reddish-orange, Holmes, here with public defender Tamara Brady, showed little emotion. He is accused of opening fire in a movie theater July 20, 2012, in Aurora, Colorado, killing 12 people and wounding 70. Holmes faces 166 counts, almost all alleging murder or attempted murder. He has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. More photos: Mourning the victims of the Colorado theater massacre Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police release the official photo from Holmes' booking after the shooting. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes often had a blank stare during his July 23, 2012, court appearance, seeming to be in a daze. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Victims and their relatives and journalists watch the proceedings in 2012. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Flags fly at half-staff on July 23, 2012, at the Arapahoe County Courthouse in Centennial, Colorado, where the movie theater shooting suspect had his first court appearance. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Arapahoe County District Attorney Carol Chambers talks to reporters July 23, 2012, before heading into the courthouse. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Family members of the victims arrive at the courthouse July 23, 2012, for the suspect's first court appearance. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The Century Aurora 16 multiplex in Aurora becomes a place of horror after a gunman opened fire July 20, 2012, in a crowded theater. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes is accused of opening fire during a midnight screening of the Batman movie "The Dark Knight Rises." Holmes purchased four weapons and more than 6,000 rounds of ammunition, police say. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police investigate outside the Century 16 multiplex July 21, 2012, a day after the mass shooting. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the suspect's car outside the theater. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police escort a sand-filled dump truck containing improvised explosive devices removed from Holmes' booby-trapped apartment on July 21, 2012. Authorities have said they believe the suspect rigged his place before leaving for the movie theater. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police break a window at the suspect's apartment July 20, 2012, in Aurora. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers speak with Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper, center, outside the suspect's apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers prepare to disarm the booby-trapped apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officials tow cars outside Holmes' apartment July 21, 2012. Police disassembled devices and trip wires set up in the apartment. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers prepare to place an explosive device inside the apartment. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Debris flies out a window, right, after law enforcement officers detonate an explosive device inside the apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People mourn the victims during a vigil behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers in Aurora. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman grieves during a vigil for victims behind the theater. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A distraught woman receives counseling from the Rev. Quincy Shannon, left, in front of Gateway High School in Aurora, where the families of the missing met after the shooting. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Lin Gan of Aurora holds back tears as she speaks to reporters about her experience in the Century 16 theater. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People embrace before a vigil for victims behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators work on evidence near the apartment of James Holmes on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Members of the Aurora Police Department SWAT unit walk near the Holmes' apartment. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Television news crews gather in front of the home of Robert and Arlene Holmes, parents of suspect James Holmes, in San Diego on July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A popcorn box lies on the ground outside the Century 16 movie theater. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Adariah Legarreta, 4, is comforted by her grandmother Rita Abeyta near the Century 16 Theater in Aurora. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Jessica Ghawi, an aspiring sportscaster, was one of the victims. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman waits for news outside Gateway High School, a few blocks from the scene of the shooting at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police chief Daniel J. Oates speaks at a press conference near the Century 16 Theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the trash container outside the suspect's apartment in Aurora. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A Federal ATF officer carries protective gear onsite at the home of the shooting suspect. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre President Obama speaks on the shootings at a July 20, 2012, event in Fort Myers, Florida. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Moviegoers are interviewed at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers gather at the theater July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators were a common sight at the theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Authorities gather at the shooting suspect's apartment building in Aurora. Police broke a second-floor window to look for explosives the suspect claimed were in the apartment. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Screaming, panicked moviegoers scrambled to escape from the black-clad gunman, who wore a gas mask and randomly shot as he walked up the theater's steps, witnesses said. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Onlookers gather outside the Century Aurora 16 theater. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman sits on top of her car near the crime scene. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police block access to the Town Center mall after the shooting. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Cell phone video taken by someone at the theater showed scores of people screaming and fleeing the building. Some, like this man, had blood on their clothes. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Witnesses told KUSA the gunman kicked in an emergency exit door and threw a smoke bomb into the darkened theater before opening fire. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre What is believed to be the suspect's car is examined after the shooting. Hide Caption 45 of 45Defense attorney Daniel King said Holmes' legal team will not be filing any appeals. He pointed out that Holmes offered early on to plead guilty if prosecutors took the death penalty off the table.And now, following a long and horrific trial, Holmes faces the same fate he would have had he entered that guilty plea."We most humbly respect the suffering of the victims in this case," King said. "It pains us beyond measure that some of these folks may perceive any of our actions as being directed against them in any way at all. It has never been our intention to reharm, reinjure or retraumatize anyone."But it was Arlene Holmes whose words stood out on yet another day of tears, sadness and raw emotion as she vowed to continue to work to raise awareness of mental health issues."I have heard people say mass shooting cannot be prevented," she said. "I do not wish to succumb to this defeatist attitude. I promise everyone we will continue to educate people."