(CNN) Acclaimed author and neurologist Oliver Sacks, who wrote about his battle with cancer, died early Sunday, his longtime collaborator, Kate Edgar, confirmed. He was 82.Edgar said Sacks died at his home in Greenwich Village with her and his partner, Bill Hayes, at his side.Sacks was diagnosed with ocular melanoma nine years ago, and treating the cancer left him blind in one eye, he wrote in an op-ed for The New York TimesBut the cancer spread."I feel grateful that I have been granted nine years of good health and productivity since the original diagnosis, but now I am face to face with dying," Sacks wrote in February. "The cancer occupies a third of my liver, and though its advance may be slowed, this particular sort of cancer cannot be halted."The British-born Sacks, who was on the staff of the New York University School of Medicine, is perhaps best known as the inspiration for the doctor portrayed by the late actor Robin Williams in the 1990 film "Awakenings."The film is based on Sacks' 1973 book of the same name, recounting his experiences treating patients who have long been in a catatonic state after contracting "sleeping sickness."In his long career, he made a practice of marrying clinical practice with narrative storytelling."If we wish to know about a man, we ask 'what is his story -- his real, inmost story?' -- for each of us is a biography, a story," he wrote in his 1985 book, "The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat.""Each of us is a singular narrative, which is constructed, continually, unconsciously, by, through, and in us -- through our perceptions, our feelings, our thoughts, our actions; and, not least, our discourse, our spoken narrations," he said. "Biologically, physiologically, we are not so different from each other; historically, as narratives -- we are each of us unique."The habit that endeared him to many also brought criticism from some who accused him of being exploitative. Disability advocate Tom Shakespeare once called him "the man who mistook his patients for a literary career."But news of Sacks' death was met with widespread praise of his life, with fans from all walks of life hailing him and his work as well as sharing many of his memorable quotes.We will miss Oliver Sacks terribly. Last time we'd met Oliver spoke w/ boyish enthusiasm about "beautiful" minerals-- & many other things. — Joyce Carol Oates (@JoyceCarolOates) August 30, 2015"I have been a sentient being, a thinking animal, on this beautiful planet, & that has been an enormous privilege & adventure." Oliver Sacks — Sarah Bakewell (@Sarah_Bakewell) August 30, 2015Oliver Sacks had a huge heart, which steered his sharp mind. He taught us so much about each other. Thank you, and RIP. — Scott Simon (@nprscottsimon) August 30, 2015We see with the eyes but we see with the brain as well. And seeing with the brain is often called imagination. -Oliver Sacks — Tamar Naomi (@Tnaomiz) August 30, 2015The great, humane and inspirational Oliver Sacks has died. He wrote this recently. That's a life well-lived. pic.twitter.com/ZnaKrOzkBm — J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) August 30, 2015RIP the great & wise Oliver Sacks, whose Musicophilia is one of the most compelling (& moving) reads on music & the brain ever written — Howard Goodall (@Howard_Goodall) August 30, 2015"It really is a very odd business that all of us, to varying degrees, have music in our heads." -- Oliver Sacks — Carrie Brownstein (@Carrie_Rachel) August 30, 2015