(CNN) March Madness is back! Need help with your brackets ? Here's info on every team in college basketball's biggest tournament. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)Gun debateThe White House trotted out new gun and school safety proposals that include arming teachers and improving background checks. But these new proposals don't include an idea that President Trump -- after the Parkland school shooting -- originally said he would support: increasing the minimum age to buy certain guns. The proposals also include the creation of a commission to look at other school violence prevention measures. But if you remember from the President's freewheeling campaign rally over the weekend, he called blue-ribbon committees just "talk, talk, talk."New York helicopter crashFive people died when a sightseeing helicopter crashed into the icy East River . The pilot, who was able to free himself, was the crash's only survivor. The copter was upside-down and submerged when first responders got to it. The victims were tightly harnessed inside the helicopter and had to be cut out. In a mayday call right before the crash, the pilot said the helicopter was having engine failure.JUST WATCHED Helicopter crashes in New York's East River Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Helicopter crashes in New York's East River 01:24California hostage deathsThe man who killed three women at a Northern California veterans' home was bipolar and had anger issues. Albert Wong, a veteran, held three employees of the home hostage before killing them. He had been kicked out of the home, which helps post-9/11 vets get back to civilian life, after he threatened one of the women. Wong's brother said he "wanted to get back at them, talk to them, yell at them, not to kill them." The victims, who were dedicated to helping vets with mental health issues, were remembered as "beautiful people."JUST WATCHED Source: Gunman previously threatened a victim Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Source: Gunman previously threatened a victim 02:11UK and RussiaBritian's National Security Council meets today to figure out how to respond to the poisoning of an ex-Russian double agent and his adult daughter. All signs point to Russia being involved in the nerve agent attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia. If that can be proven, the UK government reportedly may retaliate with sanctions and diplomatic expulsions. Such moves would put UK-Russia relations at the lowest point since the end of the Cold War.JUST WATCHED Diners may have been exposed to nerve agent Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Diners may have been exposed to nerve agent 01:25ChinaIt's official. Chinese President Xi Jinping can serve for the rest of his life if he wants to. Yesterday, China's parliament voted to end presidential term limits. The country's Communist Party said the change, which sparked a backlash , was necessary to align the presidency with Xi's other posts -- head of the party and the military, which have no term limits. Xi is already being hailed as the most powerful Chinese leader since Mao Zedong, who ruled the country for decades.JUST WATCHED China clears way for Xi to rule for life Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China clears way for Xi to rule for life 02:27BREAKFAST BROWSEThe kindest cutThe busy waitress took the time out to cut an elderly diner's ham . Her kindness, with a little help from social media, helped her win a scholarship.JUST WATCHED Waitress' act of kindness goes viral Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Waitress' act of kindness goes viral 01:03Swan songWe haven't heard the last of Dolores O'Riordan. The late singer's band The Cranberries is putting out a final album with some of her unreleased vocals.JUST WATCHED Dolores O'Riordan on live music and Ireland Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dolores O'Riordan on live music and Ireland 02:13Mission to MarsSeems like SpaceX can do just about anything, but can it really fly a ship to Mars next year? Oh yes, says Elon Musk.JUST WATCHED Should humans even try to move to Mars? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Should humans even try to move to Mars? 03:19Role reversalA Confederate monument is out and Harriet Tubman is in at a park in Baltimore near John Hopkins University.JUST WATCHED Should the US ban Confederate monuments? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Should the US ban Confederate monuments? 09:52I'd like to thank the Academy ...In the best picture mix-up at last year's Oscars, "Moonlight" director Barry Jenkins never got to give his acceptance speech -- until now.JUST WATCHED Watch: Best picture mix-up on stage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch: Best picture mix-up on stage 01:02QUOTE OF THE DAY"I couldn't care less."Vladimir Putin, telling NBC's Megyn Kelly Russian President, telling NBC's Megyn Kelly how he really feels about accusations Russia meddled in the 2016 US election.JUST WATCHED Putin blames Americans for election meddling Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Putin blames Americans for election meddling 01:22NUMBER OF THE DAY3The number of nor'easters the Northeast has faced down in 10 days. The latest storm hits tonight and will bring snow and wind to New England.JUST WATCHED Northeast preps for 3rd storm in under 2 weeks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Northeast preps for 3rd storm in under 2 weeks 01:27AND FINALLY ...Absolutely adorable