(CNN) Reading by the light of your plants ? Yeah, scientists are working on that one. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russian diplomatsRussia is warning it will retaliate after more than 20 countries said they will kick out more than 100 Russian diplomats. A Kremlin spokesman said Russia would be "guided by the principle of reciprocity" in its actions. The US alone is expelling 60 diplomats and closing a consulate in Seattle, the most forceful action President Trump's ever taken against Vladimir Putin's government.The mass expulsions are being done in solidarity with the UK's recent decision to throw out almost two dozen Russian diplomats after it said the Russians were behind the poisoning of an ex-Russian double agent and his adult daughter. UK Prime Minister Theresa May said the agent and his daughter "may never" fully recover from the poisoning.2. FacebookJUST WATCHED How to find out what Facebook knows about you Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How to find out what Facebook knows about you 02:223. Kim Jong UnIs Kim Jong Un in China? An official "with deep knowledge of North Korea" told CNN there's a strong possibility that the North Korean leader is in Beijing. If he's there, it's the first time he's left the country since he took power in 2011. Whispers of a possible visit took off after images of a train that belongs to Kim's family popped up online. This alleged visit comes just weeks before Kim's planned summit with South Korea's President and a potential meeting with President TrumpJUST WATCHED Kim Jong Un possibly on mystery train to China Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kim Jong Un possibly on mystery train to China 03:154. 2020 CensusThe 2020 Census will reinstate a question about citizenship , the Commerce Department says. The Justice Department asked for its inclusion, saying it's needed to help enforce the Voting Rights Act . But critics fear it will spur a huge drop in immigrant response rates and leave a lot of people uncounted. Census data is used to determine where federal money is spent and how congressional districts are drawn, among other uses. The Census is intended to count the entire population , not just US citizens. The citizenship question was dropped from the decennial count after the 1950 census.JUST WATCHED 2020 Census will ask about citizenship status Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2020 Census will ask about citizenship status 01:295. Linda BrownThe woman at the center of the landmark Brown v. Board of Education case has died. Linda Brown passed away at 75 over the weekend in Topeka, Kansas. It was there that her father, in 1951 when she was 9, tried to enroll Brown in an all-white school near their home. When the school blocked that, her father sued, sparking the case that would end legal segregation in American schools.HAPPENING LATERAlton Sterling updateNew iPads?Apple's taking a "field trip" to Chicago this morning for an event focused on education. Industry insiders think Apple will use this as an opportunity to debut a 9.7-inch budget iPad for students, likely in the $250 to $300 range.BREAKFAST BROWSEYou are beautifulChristina Aguilera ditches the makeup for the new cover of Paper magazine and, well, she still looks pretty stunning.Welcome backHe was a groundskeeper for the Chicago White Sox before he spent two decades in prison for crime he didn't commit. Now, he's got his old job backJUST WATCHED White Sox rehire wrongly convicted man Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH White Sox rehire wrongly convicted man 01:38No, she didn'tThere's an image floating around of Parkland survivor Emma Gonzalez ripping up the US Constitution. It's a fake , folks.JUST WATCHED Fake video of Parkland student goes viral Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fake video of Parkland student goes viral 00:52'Spirit dragon' theoryWhy do some buildings in Hong Kong have holes in them? It's for more than just feng shui.TODAY'S NUMBERS42%President Trump's approval rating in a new CNN poll. It's his highest rating in nearly a year.669That's how many points the Dow jumped , as Wall Street got over its trade war fears, at least for a day. It's also the third-biggest point gain in history.AND FINALLYThe right stuff