(CNN) It's the first day of spring ! So, of course, the East Coast is prepping for yet another wicked nor'easter . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia investigationRepublicans have warned President Trump : Don't fire special counsel Robert Mueller. But they're apparently not willing to put their money where their mouth is. Even as Trump keeps up personal attacks on Mueller , GOP lawmakers aren't so hot on passing a law to protect him . Most GOP Senate leaders say legislation -- including two bipartisan bills -- aren't needed because the President wouldn't actually fire Mueller. Then, there's Sen. Bob Corker, who said legislation to protect the special counsel should be in a must-pass bill to keep the government open past Friday.Meanwhile, Trump continues to get more aggressive in dealing with the Russia investigation. He just hired a new personal lawyer best known for floating conspiracy theories on Fox News about the Justice Department framing the President. And for the first time, Trump's lawyers and Mueller's team met face-to-face last week and tried to hash out the questions that could be asked of the President in a sit-down interview.2. ISIS in SyriaJUST WATCHED Mother in agony after airstrike kills her baby Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mother in agony after airstrike kills her baby 02:173. Self-driving car deathIt's the kind of milestone no one wanted to see. A woman was struck and killed by a self-driving car , in what's believed to be the first fatality involving a fully autonomous car. A test driver from Uber was behind the wheel -- but not in control -- when the SUV hit the woman, who was walking her bike across a street in Tempe, Arizona. Uber -- which is testing self-driving cars in Arizona, Pittsburgh, Toronto and a few other places -- put the brakes on its tests for now.JUST WATCHED Pedestrian struck by self-driving Uber, killed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pedestrian struck by self-driving Uber, killed 01:324. China & TaiwanJUST WATCHED China 'firmly' opposes Taiwan Travel Act Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China 'firmly' opposes Taiwan Travel Act 02:145. Turpin childrenThe 13 California siblings allegedly held captive and tortured by their parents, have been released from the hospital and are living in three foster homes. The Turpin children are regularly talking to each other on Skype and are described as "happy" to be out of the home where their parents are said to have abused them . The CEO of the hospital where they were treated said the children "still have the capacity to love and trust people who have been good to them. Their spirit has not been crushed."JUST WATCHED Classmate: Turpin child was bullied in school Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Classmate: Turpin child was bullied in school 05:19BREAKFAST BROWSERIP rhinoThe world's last male northern white rhino has died in Kenya, meaning the subspecies only has two females left.JUST WATCHED World's last male northern white rhino dies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH World's last male northern white rhino dies 00:42Treasure huntEveryone thought those stories about $54 million in buried Civil War gold was just a myth -- until the feds started digging around the hills of northwest Pennsylvania.Star trekIf Donald Trump can go from "The Apprentice" to the White House, Cynthia Nixon believes she can go from "Sex and the City" to the New York governor's mansionJUST WATCHED Actress announces candidacy for NY governor Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Actress announces candidacy for NY governor 00:54Mistaken identityJordan Peele's had a heck of a year. He won an Oscar and (apparently) made a game-winning shot in the NCAA tourney, according to fans who mistook him on social media for Michigan's Jordan Poole.JUST WATCHED How Jordan Peele turned his fear into success Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Jordan Peele turned his fear into success 02:56When the music stopsFifth Harmony is going away for a while , so reach out and console the Harmonizers in your life.TODAY'S NUMBER$37 billionThat's how much value Facebook lost after word got out that a data firm linked to Donald Trump's presidential campaign accessed info on 50 million Facebook users.JUST WATCHED Controversial data firm under scrutiny Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Controversial data firm under scrutiny 03:04TODAY'S QUOTE"It was a shock because John McEnroe makes at least £150,000 (about $210,000). I get about £15,000 (about $21,000)."Nine-time Wimbledon singles champion Martina Navratilova, describing her shock upon learning that the BBC pays her 10 times less than her fellow tennis commentator. BBC says McEnroe is on air three times as much.JUST WATCHED Navratilova: I earn 10x less than John McEnroe Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Navratilova: I earn 10x less than John McEnroe 02:19AND FINALLYNo DVDs required