The work of someone gone but great.Come on now, don't be obtuse,Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.(You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White HouseOh, but wait, there's more:-- And National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster may be gone by month's end.It's hard to keep up with all the drama. This handy little diagram might help.2. RussiaRussian President Vladimir Putin boasts of new "invincible" missiles that he says neither the US nor NATO can stop, but US officials aren't impressed . Putin said Russia has new drones and nuclear weapons systems with unlimited range that could render NATO defenses "useless" and deliver a warhead at hypersonic speed. He even showed video clips of an imagined attack on Florida. US officials called the video and Putin's claims "cheesy," stressing that US defense capabilities are "second to none."JUST WATCHED Putin announces 'invincible' new missile Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Putin announces 'invincible' new missile 00:553. EconomyWorried that the super-hot US economy is getting too hot? Relax, says the chairman of the Federal Reserve. Jerome Powell told the Senate Banking Committee he doesn't think the economy is overheating because despite the tight job market, wages still aren't rising that much . That can trigger inflation, which policymakers combat by raising interest rates. Powell said the Fed's prepped three rate hikes for this year to help keep inflation in check.JUST WATCHED Fed Chair grilled on black unemployment Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fed Chair grilled on black unemployment 02:124. Tennessee school bus crashA bus driver was found guilty on charges related to a 2016 crash that killed six children in Chattanooga. Johnthony Walker was convicted of negligent homicide, reckless aggravated assault and reckless driving. Prosecutors argued Walker was speeding and on his phone when the bus ran off the road, flipped over and hit a tree. Walker -- who denied being on his phone and said he couldn't remember how fast he was driving -- testified he'd swerved to avoid a white vehicle that veered into his lane. He'll be sentenced next month.JUST WATCHED Sixth child declared dead in Chattanooga crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sixth child declared dead in Chattanooga crash 01:465. WeatherOh, the weather outside is frightful -- if you live on the coasts or in the UK. A wicked nor'easter , which may morph into one of those dreaded "bomb cyclones," is racing up the East Coast, bringing heavy rain, strong winds and the risk of excessive flooding. On the West Coast, tens of thousands of Californians are evacuating as a storm pummels the state with rain, raising the possibility of flash flooding and mudslides. One place under the evac order is Montecito, where 21 people were killed in January in massive mudslides. Finally, Arctic cold and a big storm combined forces to make a mess of travel in the United Kingdom and other parts of Europe.JUST WATCHED Just what exactly is a 'bomb cyclone'? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Just what exactly is a 'bomb cyclone'? 00:52BREAKFAST BROWSECHECK THE MAIL!Get your invite yet? Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are inviting more than 2,600 members of the public to Windsor Castle to share their wedding day.JUST WATCHED Royal wedding details revealed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Royal wedding details revealed 01:59Race against timeJUST WATCHED Saving the Northern White Rhino Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Saving the Northern White Rhino 02:27(Not) coming home to roostFirst, they ran out of chicken. Now, dozens of KFCs in the UK are closed because lettuce and gravy are in short supply.But ... why?Some lawmakers in Utah wrote a rap song . "Schoolhouse Rock!" it is not.JUST WATCHED These Utah lawmakers wrote a rap song. Enjoy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH These Utah lawmakers wrote a rap song. Enjoy 00:55Blue streakPeople in Michigan are enjoying a phenomenon usually only seen in glaciers: blue ice, which gets its otherworldly glow because it doesn't have bubblesTOTAL RECALLOscars quizA little something different this week: Let's see if you have what it takes to make an Oscar-winning movie. To boost your chances of winning the big prize, where should your movie take place?A. New York CityB. Los AngelesC. United KingdomD. The American SouthJUST WATCHED Confessions of an Oscars seat filler Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Confessions of an Oscars seat filler 01:32TODAY'S NUMBER$1 billionTODAY'S QUOTE"Give me a call and see what's up."Cleveland Browns general manager John Dorsey, who says the Browns, who went 0-16 last season, are open to trading away the No. 1 pick in the upcoming NFL draft. The only bright spot to going winless is getting the No. 1 pick, so this makes no sense to anybody.JUST WATCHED Tailgating with the dog pound Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tailgating with the dog pound 01:06AND FINALLYI scream, you scream, we all scream for ice cream