(CNN) The Oscars are Sunday. Need to cram? Here's where you can find 30 nominated films. And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Gun debateDonald Trump is a master at reality TV. And no, we're not talking about "The Apprentice." We're talking about those live, freewheeling White House brainstorming sessions with lawmakers. Now, they've had one on guns , and it did not go the way we all thought.Trump defied GOP doctrine on guns and pushed strongly for expanded background checks and raising the age to buy a rifle to 21. He even advocated taking guns away from some people ID'd as potentially dangerous -- before they go to court. And Trump cut off GOP Rep. Steve Scalise , who was shot last year at a congressional baseball practice, when Scalise pitched lumping in a pro-concealed carry measure. In all, Republicans were stunned. Democrats were elated. The NRA called it "great TV" but "bad policy." The real question is whether Trump sticks with this or just moves on.Meanwhile, two retailers did some gun reform of their own. Walmart and Dick's Sporting Goods both said they're raising the age for gun sales to 21, while Dick's is also ending sales of assault-style rifles.2. Hope HicksThis might be the most consequential of all the recent White House resignations. Hope Hicks is stepping down as communications director. She's one of President Trump's closest and most trusted aides. She was always at his side on the campaign trail and even sometimes typed out his tweets. Hicks' departure was announced a day after she testified before the House Intelligence Committee and admitted to telling white lies for Trump. CNN's Stephen Collinson says her absence will leave the President feeling more alone and isolated than ever , not a good thing as Trump preps for the battles ahead.JUST WATCHED The colorful responses to Hope Hicks' white lies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The colorful responses to Hope Hicks' white lies 01:243. SyriaTwo ceasefires ordered. Two ceasefires ignored. The fighting rages on in the Syrian rebel-held enclave of Eastern Ghouta. Russian President Vladimir Putin wanted a daily five-hour "humanitarian pause" in the fighting so civilians could get out of the besieged area . But that was disregarded just like the UN's call for a 30-day ceasefire. Putin blames "extremist forces" for the violence. Rebel fighters and government forces accuse each other of breaking the truce.JUST WATCHED Russia orders humanitarian pause in Syria Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Russia orders humanitarian pause in Syria 02:024. Canada & IndiaJustin Trudeau's disastrous trip to India is over, but controversy over it continues. Since arriving back home, the Canadian Prime Minister seemed to back the notion that people within the Indian government tried to sabotage his weeklong visit. Of course, that ticked off the Indians, who called such talk "baseless and unacceptable." Trudeau's trip last week was widely panned amid his own missteps and the sense that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi was snubbing him over Canada's alleged cozy relationship with Sikh separatists.JUST WATCHED Trudeau's India trip ends with a hug Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trudeau's India trip ends with a hug 01:065. West Virginia teacher strikeJUST WATCHED West Virginia teachers strike for better pay, benefits Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH West Virginia teachers strike for better pay, benefits 01:04BREAKFAST BROWSEFirst lightScientists say they've found traces of the first bits of light ever seen in the universe, thought to emit from the first stars formed after the Big Bang.JUST WATCHED The galaxy explained Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The galaxy explained 00:53Lost and foundIt was missing for decades, then turned up in a London apartment. Now, the painting often called the "African Mona Lisa" has sold for a cool $1.6 millionIn lieu of bouquets ...The brides wore white -- and carried AR-15s -- during one of the strangest wedding ceremonies you'll ever witness.JUST WATCHED Controversial AR-15 wedding ceremony Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Controversial AR-15 wedding ceremony 01:05Tell us what you really, really wantWill the Spice Girls perform at the royal wedding? Mel B kind of hinted yes , then wanted to pretend she never said it, so who knows.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHPulse massacre trialJury selection begins today in the trial of the widow of the gunman who opened fire in 2016 inside the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, killing 49 people. Noor Salman is accused of aiding and abetting Omar Mateen's material support to ISIS, as well as obstruction of justice for allegedly misleading investigators. She has pleaded not guiltyJUST WATCHED Sources: Shooter's wife went with him to buy ammunition Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sources: Shooter's wife went with him to buy ammunition 01:13TODAY'S NUMBER60%That's the rate at which anti-Semitic incidents rose last year, according to a new report from the Anti-Defamation LeagueJUST WATCHED Trump: Holocaust deniers 'are an accomplice' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: Holocaust deniers 'are an accomplice' 02:10TODAY'S QUOTE"This amendment ... does not mean a life-long term system for leading officials."China's state-run newspaper, People's Daily, arguing that Chinese President Xi Jinping wouldn't necessarily stay in office, like, forever, as the country considers dropping presidential term limitsJUST WATCHED Chinese constitution could keep Xi in power for decades Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chinese constitution could keep Xi in power for decades 01:09AND FINALLYMaster class