(CNN) Seattle and New England are going nuts over their Super Bowl teams, an ice storm is wreaking havoc on the Northeast, and 1% of the world's population is far more loaded than you can imagine.It's Monday, and here are the "5 Things to Know for Your New Day."SUPER BOWL XLIXSo the Seattle Seahawks are getting greedy for more Super Bowl rings. The defending champs will take on the New England Patriots and their formidable coach-QB duo of Bill Belichick and Tom Brady. Watch the teams duke it out February 1 in Super Bowl XLIX. (Or if you just want to see Katy Perry and some outrageously expensive ads, you can do that, too.)WEATHERDeadly accumulation: After freezing rain and snow covered roads across the Northeast, leaving five dead, more misery awaits Monday. Winter storm warnings are in effect for parts of Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Vermont, which could get pummeled with 3 to 7 inches of snow -- or 10 inches in the higher elevations.Ice hangs from a sign alongside an icy rural road Sunday near Newtown, PennsylvaniaSTATE OF THE UNIONMore taxes, less taxes: We've got a head's up on what President Obama is going to say in his State of the Union speech Tuesday night. He wants to : We've got a head's up on what President Obama is going to say in his State of the Union speech Tuesday night. He wants to increase taxes for the wealthy to help pay for new programs designed to boost the middle class, such as offering two free years of community college to qualified students. And he also wants $500 tax credit for married couples who each hold jobs. Now, can he get that past the Republican-controlled Congress?JUST WATCHED Obama wants tax increases on wealthy, tax cuts for middle class Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama wants tax increases on wealthy, tax cuts for middle class 02:07EUROPE TERRORISM THREATHow far will it spread? Investigators across Europe are scrambling to stop the spread of terrorism and threats after the deadly Paris attacks. Belgium has arrested five of its nationals, and Greece has also made arrests Investigators across Europe are scrambling to stop the spread of terrorism and threats after the deadly Paris attacks. Belgium has arrested five of its nationals, and Greece has also made arrests as investigators try to sniff out terror cellsJUST WATCHED Senator: Actions we take could create more terrorists Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Senator: Actions we take could create more terrorists 03:16UBER WEALTHYHuge slice of the pie: The wealthiest 1% of the world isn't just freakishly loaded; soon, they're going to have more than the rest of us combined. "The richest 1% have seen their share of global wealth increase from 44% in 2009 to 48% in 2014," Oxfam says. At that rate, the wealthiest will own more than 50% by next year.