It's Tuesday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayCHARLIE HEBDO CARTOONIf the Charlie Hebdo attackers thought they could eliminate the magazine, they're about to be proven wrong a million times over. Editors of the Paris-based satirical magazine released the cover of their next issue last night, and it shows a cartoon of the Prophet Mohammed, holding up a sign with the now-famous slogan "Je Suis Charlie." This issue of Charlie Hebdo is scheduled to be shipped to newsstands today and put on sale tomorrow. Many Muslims find depictions of Mohammed to be deeply offensive, and there has been speculation that Wednesday's attackers were motivated in part by past Charlie Hedbo cartoons. Circulation for this edition is expected to be massive. Three million copies will be printed. A normal run is 60,000 copies.FRANCE - OBAMA SNUBNo-show, no problem?: The Obama administration is taking plenty of heat for The Obama administration is taking plenty of heat for not showing up at the French unity march over the weekend. But most of the hubbub seems domestic in nature, with little coming from across the pond. White House spokesman Josh Earnest acknowledged the slip up. "We should have sent someone with a higher profile," he said. U.S. ambassador Jane Hartley was the top American official at Sunday's events. The no-show made barely a ripple in France which is still focused on the aftermath of last week's terror attacks. Giving the White House some political cover, French President Francois Hollande and French diplomats praised Obama's support. Domestically, it was a different story. Sen. Marco Rubio told CBS it was a "mistake" not to send someone. Sen. Ted Cruz said Obama should have been on the streets of Paris himself. U.S. media took the administration to task too, and analysts said the president missed an opportunity to engage with France.JUST WATCHED Damage control after Obama skips unity rally in Paris Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Damage control after Obama skips unity rally in Paris 02:24AIRASIAAnother piece of the puzzle: Divers recovered the cockpit voice recorder from the submerged wreckage of Divers recovered the cockpit voice recorder from the submerged wreckage of AirAsia Flight QZ8501 on Tuesday. It's another step forward for the investigation into the disaster. Retrieving the device, which is designed to record all sounds on a plane's flight deck, is expected to help investigators understand what went wrong aboard Flight QZ8501, which went down in the Java Sea last month with 162 people aboard. On Monday, searchers recovered the plane's other so-called black box, the flight data recorder, which stores a vast amount of information about the aircraft's performance, including air speed and cabin pressure.JUST WATCHED Official: AirAsia plane exploded after hitting water Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Official: AirAsia plane exploded after hitting water 01:38COLLEGE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIPBucks over Ducks: of the inaugural College Football Playoff, defeating Oregon 42-20 on Monday. Running back Ezekiel Elliott led the Buckeyes to their eighth national title by rushing for 246 yards and scoring four touchdowns. Heisman Trophy winner Marcus Mariota was 24 of 37 for 333 yards and two touchdowns for Oregon, but it wasn't enough as Ohio State ground out lengthy scoring drives throughout the game. OSU overcame four turnovers. Ohio State won the championship game of the inaugural College Football Playoff, defeating Oregon 42-20 on Monday. Running back Ezekiel Elliott led the Buckeyes to their eighth national title by rushing for 246 yards and scoring four touchdowns. Heisman Trophy winner Marcus Mariota was 24 of 37 for 333 yards and two touchdowns for Oregon, but it wasn't enough as Ohio State ground out lengthy scoring drives throughout the game. OSU overcame four turnovers.Even my rubber duck cried after that loss I wonder how Donald, Daffy, Daisy & Howard the Duck are feeling? #OREvsOSU pic.twitter.com/oixmjIMfIV — TrueTrini2013 (@TrueTriniRed) January 13, 2015LONG DISTANCE SWIMPays to be a dolphin: Former Miami Former Miami Dolphins football player Rob Konrad fought back tears yesterday as he recounted how he swam nine miles to shore after falling off his boat last week. He alternated between the breast stroke and backstroke. Jellyfish stung him and he was also circled by a shark. It took him 16 hours to make the trip off the South Florida coastline on Wednesday. Konrad was trying to reel in a fish when a huge wave smashed into the boat. "I quickly realized I was in a real bad situation," he said. He came ashore in Palm Beach. A security guard called police. Konrad was taken to the hospital, where he said he was treated for hypothermia, severe dehydration and rhabdomyolysis, the breakdown of muscle tissue.