It's Thursday, and here are the five things to know for your New Day.ISIS: Jordan has until the sun sets today to hand over convicted terrorist Sajida al-Rishawi if it wants ISIS to spare the life of Jordanian pilot, Moaz al-Kassasbeh. That's the new deadline the Islamist group apparently has set. Jordan has said it's willing to do the swap. But what's unknown is if such an exchange will spare the life of another hostage, Japanese journalist Kenji Goto. Sunset is at 5:30 p.m. Iraq time, or 9:30 a.m. ET.AIR ASIAStill no answers: When AirAsia Flight QZ8501 crashed, the co-pilot was flying the plane, the pilot was monitoring the flight, and things may have gone wrong in a span of just three minutes and 20 seconds. : When AirAsia Flight QZ8501 crashed, the co-pilot was flying the plane, the pilot was monitoring the flight, and things may have gone wrong in a span of just three minutes and 20 seconds. That's the assessment of Indonesia's National Transportation Safety Committee. It's common for the co-pilot to be in control of the aircraft. The big question remains: Did the plane stall while trying to make a steep ascent? Today, we learned that the stall warnings sounded, but that doesn't always mean the aircraft stalled.JUST WATCHED Co-pilot flew AirAsia Flight QZ8501 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Co-pilot flew AirAsia Flight QZ8501 01:58FERGUSONGetting out of hand: An attempt to mend the relationship between citizens and police in St. Louis broke into : An attempt to mend the relationship between citizens and police in St. Louis broke into a shouting and shoving match last night -- between citizens and police. Council members considering a bill to establish a civilian oversight board over police work were holding a public meeting when Jeff Roorda, the business manager of the city's police union, and a woman appeared to get into a confrontation. "We saw once again tonight how fractured our city remains. We have a lot of work to do," one councilman tweeted.We saw once again tonight how fractured our city remains. We have a lot of work to do. I believe a strong civilian review board can help. — Antonio French (@AntonioFrench) January 29, 2015Brawl at St Louis City Hall over civilian review of police. A video posted by Nicholas Pistor (@npistor) on Jan 28, 2015 at 5:49pm PSTMEASLESStay home kids: The numbers just keep rising. There are now : The numbers just keep rising. There are now 79 confirmed measles cases in California. Sixty six students in the Desert Sands Unified School District, who either haven't been vaccinated or can't show proof, have been told to stay home.JUST WATCHED Measles outbreak fuels vaccine debate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Measles outbreak fuels vaccine debate 02:45SYDNEY SIEGEInquest begins: Only one of the Sydney siege victims was shot by the gunman. : Only one of the Sydney siege victims was shot by the gunman. The second was killed by officers' bullets when they stormed the cafe. The revelations came in the opening day of an inquest into the 16-hour siege of a central Sydney cafe last month. It's likely to further fuel questions about how New South Wales Police responded to the incident.