Photos: Evolution of camera drones Evolution of camera drones – Drones in a vineyard? Wine not!? This one, pictured in September 2014 at the Pape Clement castle vineyards in Bordeaux, France, uses an infrared camera to assess the maturity of the grapes. Hide Caption 1 of 11Photos: Evolution of camera drones Evolution of camera drones – This shot of a superyacht was captured using the latest in drone technology -- which have developed considerably in the past decade. Hide Caption 2 of 11Photos: Evolution of camera drones Evolution of camera drones – Justice L Bentz (left) and a fellow operator get one of their custom-built drones off the ground, ready to shoot another superyacht in the Caribbean. Hide Caption 3 of 11Photos: Evolution of camera drones Evolution of camera drones – In 2004, German army officers presented this early camera drone at the CeBIT computer technology fair. Hide Caption 4 of 11Photos: Evolution of camera drones Evolution of camera drones – Most early drones had military or police uses. In 2007, British police in Liverpool used this drone to capture the anti-social behavior of festive revellers during the holiday season. Hide Caption 5 of 11Photos: Evolution of camera drones Evolution of camera drones – This drone, hovering above a beach in southern France in 2009, carried a thermal-imaging camera -- designed to let scientists check levels of pollution in the sea. Hide Caption 6 of 11Photos: Evolution of camera drones Evolution of camera drones – By 2010, drones being exhibited at major high-tech conventions included the ability to monitor the camera's output wirelessly -- and in real-time -- using cellphones. Hide Caption 7 of 11Photos: Evolution of camera drones Evolution of camera drones – Drones soon became features of major sports events. Here, Canada's Erik Guay competes beneath a drone during an Alpine skiing World Cup downhill race in early 2012. Hide Caption 8 of 11Photos: Evolution of camera drones Evolution of camera drones – A year later, this drone is seen hovering above the field during a National Rugby League game between Australian sides Manly Warringah Sea Eagles and the Sydney Roosters. Hide Caption 9 of 11Photos: Evolution of camera drones Evolution of camera drones – Increasingly, pro athletes are using drones for their own benefit. French snowboarder Xavier de le Rue is pictured working on a drone prototype in the summer of 2014. Hide Caption 10 of 11