It's Wednesday and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day.AIRASIAI am led to believe the tail section has been found. If right part of tail section then the black box should be there.HOSPITAL SHOOTINGThe elusive 'why': We don't know much about why We don't know much about why a gunman opened fire at a VA Health Care facility in Texas yesterday, killing a doctor and taking his own life. The shooting took place at the El Paso VA Health Care System, next to the William Beaumont Army Medical Center. The facility will be closed today while the FBI takes up the investigation.Where the hospital/VA center is in relation to the rest of the base, for reference: pic.twitter.com/JCVujCqipH — P. Kim Bui (@kimbui) January 6, 2015JUST WATCHED Shooter reported at El Paso VA facility Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shooter reported at El Paso VA facility 03:15CONGRESS CONVENESKeeping his gavel: John Boehner's breathing a sigh of relief today. He's John Boehner's breathing a sigh of relief today. He's back for a third term as Speaker of the House, but it wasn't without a fight. The good news: Republicans control the Senate now and they have big plans to enact a conservative agenda. The bad news: The contentious election just to secure his job is a sign that the same dynamic Boehner's seen in the last four years -- resistance from conservatives -- will continue to hamper his ability to govern the House.JUST WATCHED Boehner fights off Tea Party challengers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boehner fights off Tea Party challengers 03:46TIME CAPSULEUnearthing history: It was buried in Boston more than 200 years ago. Samuel Adams and Paul Revere had a hand in it, so did a local developer. Boston's Museum of Fine Arts It was buried in Boston more than 200 years ago. Samuel Adams and Paul Revere had a hand in it, so did a local developer. Boston's Museum of Fine Arts opened up the 1795 time capsule yesterday, breathlessly waiting to see how the items had weathered the years. Quite well, as it turns out. The stash included five folded newspapers, a Massachusetts commonwealth seal, a title page from Massachusetts colony records and at least 24 coins. And at the very bottom, an inscribed rectangular silver plate, likely made and engraved by Revere.The contents of the #MFATimeCapsule pic.twitter.com/qet1Jc6iDE — Museum of Fine Arts (@mfaboston) January 7, 2015JUST WATCHED Time capsule buried by Paul Revere contains ... Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Time capsule buried by Paul Revere contains ... 01:16OFFICER SHOOTINGSRecuperating: A pair of New York cops are in stable condition A pair of New York cops are in stable condition after getting shot when they responded to an armed robbery in the Bronx. The alleged shooter has been charged with five counts of attempted murder and his alleged accomplice was arrested on robbery charges. Police said the alleged shooter is said to have posted anti-police and anti-government statements on social media.#nypd received 29 tips identifying Jason Polanco as gunman pic.twitter.com/NRTQnkOevQ — Shimon Prokupecz (@ShimonPro) January 6, 2015