(CNN) Snow is falling at a faster rate. Wind gusts are getting stronger. And temperatures are frigid.It may not look bad yet, New York Mayor Bill de Blasio said Monday night, but it will be soon."This is literally the calm before the storm. It's about to start in earnest," de Blasio said. "And when it does, it's going to come in very fast and very hard, and people have to be very, very careful. People have to stay off the streets and stay off the sidewalks."The National Weather Service, which isn't prone to exaggeration, is using terms like "life-threatening" and "historic" to describe the weather system taking aim at the Northeast, with the worst expected to hit Monday night into Tuesday.The first big storm of the year may drop up to 3 feet of snow on Boston and New York before it ends Tuesday, with freezing rain and strong wind gusts possibly reaching 70 mph. Blizzard and winter storm warnings have been issued from Maryland through Maine and into Canada.Up to 58 million people could be put into the deep freeze. And the storm could have a far-reaching economic and political impact, even beyond the region directly hit.The snowfall will be dramatic, but that might not be what causes the most damage, CNN meteorologist Chad Myers said.A possible source of major problems, he said, will be large wind gusts that send tree limbs crashing down into power lines. That could leave people in some area without electricity for days, he said.Another area of concern: roads."It is no joke to have people stranded on a highway. We've gone through that before," New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo told reporters. "It is frightening how quickly a simple trip to the supermarket can wind up being very dangerous."Public transportation will shut down and only emergency vehicles will be allowed on the roads in 13 counties -- and on the streets of New York City -- as of 11 p.m., he said.Connecticut and Massachusetts also put travel bans in place.In Philadelphia, Mayor Michael Nutter declared a snow emergency starting at 6 p.m. ET Monday. Cars left parked on snow emergency routes will be towed and owners ticketed, he said."It's going to be the kind of night where the best thing anybody can do is stay inside," Massachusetts Gov. Charlie Baker said Monday evening.Spinning your wheelsWhile the worst of the weather isn't expected to hit until late Monday into Tuesday, according to CNN forecasters, it's already snarling travel.Nearly 7,000 flights have been canceled for Monday and Tuesday, the flight-tracking website Flightaware.com said. And hundreds of flights have already been canceled for Wednesday as well.American Airlines suspended operations in Philadelphia, Boston and New York late Monday afternoon."We plan to resume operations as soon as it is safe to do so," airline spokeswoman Andrea Huguely said.United Airlines has already canceled all Tuesday flights at Newark, LaGuardia and JFK, as well as Boston and Philadelphia, company spokeswoman Mary Ryan said.Delta has canceled more than 1,600 flights on Monday and Tuesday. There are no operations planned at Boston's Logan International Airport on Tuesday and "very limited flying at LaGuardia and JFK," spokesman Morgan Durrant said. Some cancellations may also be necessary Wednesday morning, he said.The major U.S. airlines are offering fee-free rebooking of flights to and from the Northeast on Monday and Tuesday.Other Amtrak train routes in the region will operate at reduced frequencies, the rail line said.Stocking up before the stormHeavier snow will hit Monday night and continue through Tuesday, forecasters said. Some areas will still be getting snow Wednesday.Officials across the Northeast warned residents to stock up for the storm.Tips to prepare for the storm Government officials warned residents to fill up vehicle gas tanks, stock up on food, make sure they have enough heating fuel and to take other steps to prepare for the possibility of being stranded, possibly without power, for days. Here are more tips from the Federal Emergency Management Agency: • Make a family communications plan in case you are separated from your loved ones during the height of the storm. • Make sure to keep ventilation to the outdoors clear when using kerosene heaters. • Put off travel. But if you have to go out, keep a disaster supplies kit in your car. It should include a shovel, windshield scraper, small broom, flashlight, battery-powered radio, extra batteries, food and water, matches, a change of clothes, a pocketknife, a first aid kit and blankets. • Check antifreeze levels, battery condition, exhaust and other vehicle systems before venturing out. • Stay inside as much as possible, stay dry when you do have to go outside, and watch for signs of frostbite and hypothermia, including loss of feeling, uncontrollable shivering and disorientation.And they did., collected hundreds of bags of food and water supplies for homebound seniors, While shoppers lined up in supermarkets, Dorot, a nonprofit in New York , collected hundreds of bags of food and water supplies for homebound seniors, WCBS reported"I think I'll use some of this, especially the soup," said Norma Amigo, 93, of the Upper West Side. "I will not go out if I think it's slippery out, because I fell two weeks ago."Christine Carew, a sales associate at Charles Street Supply in Boston, said customers have been coming into the hardware store since it opened Sunday to grab sleds, shovels, ice melt and snow brushes.When it comes to getting ready for a massive snowfall, she said, Boston residents know what to do."We're more prepared for it," she said. "We know it's going to happen."In Boston's North End, cigar bar manager David Riccio was sweeping the sidewalk Monday night, preparing for the storm to hit."They're making it sound really bad, so we'll see," he said.Fleets of plows and tons of saltNew York Police Commissioner William Bratton said his force was well-prepared with a fleet of vehicles equipped with tire chains and more large SUVs capable of traversing snowy streets."I want everyone to understand that we are facing -- most likely -- one of the largest snowstorms in the history of this city," de Blasio said.JUST WATCHED De Blasio: Don't underestimate this storm Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH De Blasio: Don't underestimate this storm 01:09That's saying something. In 2006, 26.9 inches of snow fell, topping the 25.8-inches of snow that fell in December 1947.New York state has at least 1,806 plows and more than 126,000 tons of salt to spray onto roads across the region.The National Guard also was positioning six dozen personnel and 20 vehicles throughout the state Monday morning..@NWSNewYorkNY Blizzard Warning for NYC, 1PM Mon-12AM Wed morning: 20-30" of snow + wind gusts to 65mph. http://t.co/jsdLTt3RY4 #alert — NYC OEM (@nycoem) January 25, 2015In Boston, New England Patriots fans saw their beloved football team off to the Super Bowl at a Monday morning celebration that wrapped up before the storm worsened.Boston Mayor Martin Walsh said there was no doubt the city would be slammed, so a major effort now is making sure people are safe. That includes checking on elderly residents and working to get homeless people off the streets and into shelters, he said.The city has 700 pieces of snow-moving equipment and 35,000 tons of salt ready, he said."You can't fight Mother Nature, and whatever happens throughout the course of the storm, we just have to do our best to be prepared going into it, which I think we are," Walsh said.Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Dexter Newcomb begins cleanup at his house in Scituate, Massachusetts, on Wednesday, January 28, a day after a winter storm left his neighborhood coated in frozen sea spray and sand. Hide Caption 1 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Cars in Norwood, Massachusetts, sit buried by snow drifts on January 28. The first blizzard of 2015 dumped nearly 3 feet of snow in parts of four Northeastern states. Massachusetts was hit the hardest. Hide Caption 2 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Workers continue snow removal efforts in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston on January 28. Hide Caption 3 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A man battles strong winds in Portland, Maine, on Tuesday, January 27. Hide Caption 4 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A wave slams into a sea wall in Scituate as evening high tide approaches on January 27. Hide Caption 5 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Snow piles up at the entrance of a closed T station in Boston on January 27. The city's public transit system was set to reopen the next day. Hide Caption 6 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast U.S. Army soldier Jennifer Bruno carries belongings from her house, center rear, which was heavily damaged by storm surge in Marshfield, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 7 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Icy water floods a street in Scituate on January 27. Hide Caption 8 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Snow clings to a man's face as he shovels a sidewalk in Portland, Maine, on January 27. Hide Caption 9 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A person skis down Memorial Drive in Cambridge, Massachusetts, on January 27. Hide Caption 10 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Plows clear snow off the Long Island Expressway in Melville, New York, on January 27. Hide Caption 11 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Plows line up at airplane gates at Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks, Connecticut, on January 27. Hide Caption 12 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A worker clears snow in Newtown, Pennsylvania, on January 27. Hide Caption 13 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Workers clear the platform at the Long Island Rail Road station in Glen Head, New York, on January 27. Hide Caption 14 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A man clears his snow-covered car on the Upper West Side in New York City on January 27. Hide Caption 15 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast An emergency vehicle drives down a snowy street in Winthrop, Massachusetts, on January 27. Hide Caption 16 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Fishing boats ride out the storm at a dock in Scituate on January 27. Hide Caption 17 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A woman walks her dog as snow swirls around the Bunker Hill Monument in Boston on Monday, January 26. Hide Caption 18 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Snow falls around the Empire State Building in New York on January 26. Hide Caption 19 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast People walk through falling snow in Hoboken, New Jersey, on January 26. Hide Caption 20 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Two passengers ride a subway car in New York on January 26. Hide Caption 21 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast People look out from office building windows as snow falls in downtown Philadelphia on January 26. Hide Caption 22 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A man stands in front of a screen listing departing flights at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport on January 26. Hide Caption 23 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast People cross a street covered in snow in New York's Times Square on January 26. Hide Caption 24 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast As the snow moves in, residents pick up some last-minute items at King's Highway Stop & Shop in New Bedford, Massachusetts, on January 26. Hide Caption 25 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast People walk near Penn Station on New York's Seventh Avenue while a major snowstorm begins on January 26. Hide Caption 26 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A tugboat sails on the East River in New York on January 26. Hide Caption 27 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Travelers wait for their train platform to be announced at New York's Penn Station on January 26. Hide Caption 28 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast The New York skyline is seen from Liberty State Park in Jersey City, New Jersey, on January 26. Hide Caption 29 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A pedestrian passes through Johnstown Central Park in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, on January 26. Hide Caption 30 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Snow falls on pedestrians in New York on January 26. Hide Caption 31 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A plane is de-iced at New York's LaGuardia Airport on January 26. Thousands of flights were canceled in anticipation of the storm. Hide Caption 32 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A man buys a shovel in Winthrop, Massachusetts, on January 26. Hide Caption 33 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Commuters travel across the Zakim Bunker Hill Bridge into downtown Boston on January 26. Hide Caption 34 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A cyclist in New York navigates between parked cars and a sanitation truck with a snow plow on it on January 26. Hide Caption 35 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Passengers talk with a ticket agent at LaGuardia Airport to try to beat the snowstorm on January 26. Hide Caption 36 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Traffic moves through falling snow near Evans City, Pennsylvania, on January 26. Hide Caption 37 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A New York City snowplow, loaded with salt, sits in midtown Manhattan as light snow falls on January 26. Hide Caption 38 of 38Hunkering downOn Plum Island, Massachusetts, Bob Connors said he'll try to ride out the storm but will move to higher ground if things get dicey, according to CNN affiliate WHDH. A 2013 storm destroyed homes on the island."When you're living on the edge of paradise like we are now, you give Mother Nature a lot of respect when we need to," said Connors.Visibility will be a major problem, said CNN meteorologist Judson Jones."This is not one of those storms you want to go out in while it's happening," Jones said. "You want to wait for the winds to die down ... before you go to the store."Blizzard Watch issued for RI to be in effect Mon night to Tues night due to predicted snow accumulations of 18-24" http://t.co/v1635ezsLy — Rhode Island EMA (@RhodeIslandEMA) January 25, 2015Tuesday is shaping up to be a day when the reality of the weather sets in.One of the inevitable aftereffects of snow -- flooding -- will quickly become a problem.There could be coastal flooding in Massachusetts starting early Tuesday, with pockets of major flooding on east-facing coastlines, the state emergency agency said."Plan to work from home is the best advice for Tuesday," Jones said.