(CNN) Wary of summer droughts? Check out the tech that literally makes it rain . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. ImmigrationThere's just SO MUCH that's going on right now in the battle over immigration, both here and abroad. Let's get to it:-- President Trump railed against current immigration laws and said the US should deport people who cross the border illegally immediately and without due process . He ramped up his rhetoric too, saying America is being invaded by "these people."-- There were lots of protests over the weekend near the detention centers where migrant children are being held, and a group of protesters briefly blocked a bus that was leaving a detention center in Texas.-- One teen boy is missing from Southwest Key Casa Padre, the largest migrant children's center, located in Brownsville, Texas. Officials say the boy ran away.-- The Trump administration's plan to reunite families separated at the border includes delaying reunifications until parents' deportation proceedings are done. Right now more than 2,000 migrant children are in the custody of the Department of Health and Human Services.-- People report border patrol agents in New England are stopping people on highways and checking their citizenship.-- Meanwhile, in Europe, almost 350 migrants are stranded on a pair of boats in the Mediterranean. The nearby countries of Italy and Malta refuse to take them in.JUST WATCHED Fareed: Trump may win despite immigration loss Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fareed: Trump may win despite immigration loss 04:032. Turkey electionTurkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan just won re-election , and he'll be a lot more powerful in his next five-year term. Erdogan, who avoided a runoff against his main challenger, now has sweeping new powers granted in a controversial referendum. In addition, the position of prime minister is gone, and the Turkish parliament's powers have been significantly reduced. While Erdogan and his supporters celebrated the victory, he still has big challenges ahead. Turkey's economy is ailing, and his political opposition will undoubtedly use that to challenge him in the future.JUST WATCHED Erdogan seeks to strengthen presidency with win Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Erdogan seeks to strengthen presidency with win 02:353. Zimbabwe explosionJUST WATCHED 2 African leaders escape harm in separate blasts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2 African leaders escape harm in separate blasts 01:414. Prince WilliamPrince William landed in Jordan over the weekend, as he starts a historic, five-day tour of the Middle East that includes a stop in Israel. He'll be the first British royal to pay an official visit to Israel and the Palestinian territories. In Jordan, William's first stop -- after meeting Crown Prince Hussein, the son of Jordan's King Abdullah II -- was at a technology-focused event for young people. He leaves for Israel tonight, where he'll meet with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas (in Ramallah), play soccer with children in Tel Aviv and have his every word scrutinized during this closely watched visit.JUST WATCHED Prince William begins historic trip Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Prince William begins historic trip 01:175. Supreme CourtThe Supremes have a lot of work to finish before the court's term ends this week. Big decisions will come down this week on public sector unions, redistricting, faith-based pregnancy centers and (the biggest of all) the Trump travel ban. And all eyes will be on Justice Anthony Kennedy. If the 81-year-old justice, who is often the swing vote on the divided court, retires, it'll give President Trump a chance to put a younger, more conservative justice on the bench who could solidify the court's conservative majority for years.JUST WATCHED Anthony Kennedy: The swing vote Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Anthony Kennedy: The swing vote 01:17BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Act of kindnessWhen a blind and deaf man needed someone to talk to during a long flight, a remarkable teen used sign language to answer the call.JUST WATCHED Teen helps blind and deaf man during flight Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Teen helps blind and deaf man during flight 00:42Open roadWomen in Saudi Arabia can finally put the pedal to the metal, as the kingdom's ban on female drivers ends.JUST WATCHED The long road to drive for Saudi women Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The long road to drive for Saudi women 03:12Razor sharpBaseball players do have some time to kill between at-bats, so Houston Astros star Alex Bregman used it to shave his mustache in the middle of a game.Alex Bregman, before and after'Shower of slobber'Say hello to Zsa Zsa, the English bulldog that won the title of World's Ugliest Dog this weekend.Zsa ZsaRun this townWelcome to South Fulton, Georgia, where the entire justice system is led by black womenBIG NEWSYou asked for it ... and it's finally here!Starting July 1, the 5 Things newsletter will show up in your inbox on Sunday mornings as well. It'll prep you for all the big stories of the week ahead, plus anything you may have missed over the weekend. Of course, we'll pack it with all the interesting extras you already enjoy on the weekdays.AND FINALLY ...Drop everything