Huntsville, Alabama (CNN) As a little girl, my dream was to become an astronaut.One of my early heroes was Sally Ride, the first American woman in space . I imagined what it was like to be her, strapped into the space shuttle.The countdown from Mission Control: "10, 9, 8...". On the launchpad, engines quaking, heart pounding "3, 2, 1, liftoff" taking me to a place few have ever seen.Minutes later, I'm floating and staring back down at planet Earth.For more about inspiring people and causes, including how CNN anchors and correspondents are getting involved, go to CNN.com/Champions .How could I possibly complete that mission? At age 12, it was obvious. I had to go to Space CampI wanted that feeling. (Oh, and a generous supply of astronaut ice cream and a spin in the chair, the Multi-Axis Trainer, which rotates in every possible direction.)CNN's Brooke Baldwin experiences Space Camp's Multi-Axis Trainer.I grew up in Atlanta, which meant the US Space and Rocket Center in Huntsville, Alabama, was a mere 200 miles away. I grabbed an adventurous classmate and pleaded my case to my parents to help me launch my space career. To my amazement, they agreed pretty much immediately and away I went.It all starts with scienceOn day one, I'd pictured myself in a spacesuit, spinning and tumbling in a zero-gravity room.In reality, what I discovered was an institution that takes this first encounter with the world of space discovery very seriously, and rightly so.Of course, it all starts with the science: the math, the space program, the solar system, and there is tons to learn. At Space Camp, we were "up and at 'em," sitting in classes, taking tests that culminated, at the end of the week, with the mission itself.Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut Sally Ride, the first American woman in space, talks with ground control during a six-day mission aboard the space shuttle Challenger in 1983. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut Ride, left, and Anna Lee Fisher work on a mission sequence test as part of their 1978 astronaut class at Kennedy Space Center in Florida. Ride, a Los Angeles native, earned four degrees at Stanford University, including a doctorate in physics, according to NASA. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut Ride joined NASA as part of the class of 1978, the first to include women. From left are Shannon Lucid, Margaret Rhea Seddon, Kathryn D. Sullivan, Judith Resnik, Fisher and Ride in August 1979. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut Ride's official NASA portrait in January 1983. During a 2008 interview with CNN, Ride recalled how the trip to space gave her a new perspective on Earth: "You can't get it just standing on the ground, with your feet firmly planted on Earth. You can only get it from space, and it's just remarkable how beautiful our planet is and how fragile it looks." Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut Ride and the rest of the STS-7 Challenger crew in January 1983. Next to Ride, from left, are John M. Fabian, Bob Crippen, Norman Thagard and Frederick Hauck. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut A technician helps Ride strap herself into a shuttle mission simulator in Houston in May 1983, less than a month before her launch. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut Ride prepares to take off in a T-38 jet as she leaves Houston for Kennedy Space Center in June 1983, three days before the shuttle launch. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut The space shuttle Challenger lifts off on June 18, 1983. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut Ride takes her seat aboard the Challenger on June 19, 1983. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut Ride floats alongside Challenger's mid-deck airlock hatch during the six-day mission in space. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut Ride takes a photograph while orbiting Earth on the Challenger. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut Ride inspects a tool kit during orbit. She also traveled to space aboard the Challenger in 1984. She had been assigned to a third flight as well, but that was scratched after the deadly Challenger explosion in 1986. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut In February 2003, Ride speaks to the media at the San Diego Air & Space Museum. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger applauds Ride after inducting her into the California Hall of Fame in December 2006. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Sally Ride, America's first female astronaut U.S. President Barack Obama presents the Presidential Medal of Freedom to Tam O'Shaughnessy, Sally Ride's life partner of 27 years, on behalf of Ride in November 2013. Ride was posthumously awarded the medal, the nation's highest civilian honor. Ride died on July 23, 2012, after a long bout with pancreatic cancer. She was 61. Hide Caption 15 of 15Obviously, I was thrilled to learn that all my work had paid off, and I was on my way.I was selected as commander of my team's mission. There I was at 12: spacesuit, white boots, helmet -- "miles from Earth."Spoiler alert: I did not become an astronaut. But when I look back to the summer of 1992 (or was it 1993?), my experience at Space Camp taught me several life lessons. First, as a young girl I was encouraged to satisfy my curiosity, especially in a field that wasn't exactly filled with women. It also exposed me to values like leadership, teamwork and endeavor. Plus few kids really know what they want to do so young. And Space Camp shows you the range of opportunity at NASA and beyond.What was the next best thing to becoming an astronaut? Being a journalist who gets to go back to Space Camp and look at that time of my life through a different lens.NASA Dr. Andrea Hanson, left, CNN's Brooke Baldwin, center, and Space Camp Communications Director Pat Ammons.More opportunitiesOnly now, there are so many more opportunities for girls who dream of space and science. That's what I really wanted to focus on this time in Huntsville.As I was recently there, I met young women from around the world.Two Indian teenagers were bursting with confidence while showing off their knowledge in STEM (science, technology, engineering, math).I introduced them to my new NASA friend, Andrea Hanson, who oversees the astronauts' exercise program in space. She exemplifies what is possible for women and space in 2018.And I met two classes of Americans when we were "walking on the moon." They may or may not become astronauts, but several of these girls wanted me to know they were just as talented as the boys.I walked away from Space Camp delighted to see it has not only kept up with the space program, but also with education for all.And these girls I met are budding rock stars in science. Meeting them just made me feel good about our future.Oh, and of course I had to take one more spin in that rotating chair -- the very same machine from my youth -- just to make sure I still had the right stuff.