(CNN) Stressed out? A little depressed? Your next meal could give you the boost you need. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. PrimariesIf you're a Republican and want to survive a GOP primary, it's becoming abundantly clear there's one thing you absolutely cannot do: criticize President Trump. Just ask Mark Sanford. CNN projects the Republican US House member from South Carolina will lose his primary to state Rep. Katie Arrington. It's a stunning result. Sanford, an ex-governor, was widely expected to win, but he'd been critical of Trump in the past. The President didn't forget and, just hours before polls closed, he tweeted an endorsement of Arrington that included a swipe at a sex scandal Sanford was involved in almost a decade ago.We saw a similar outcome last week in Alabama, where another Trump critic, US Rep. Martha Roby, was forced into a runoff in her primary. In other races Tuesday, a conservative known for advocating for Confederate symbols won the GOP nomination for a US Senate seat in Virginia, and a South Carolina Democrat running for a US House seat won his primary, despite admitting to beating his ex-wife more than 40 years ago.2. North Korea summitJUST WATCHED Trump-Kim summit: Optimism in South Korea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump-Kim summit: Optimism in South Korea 08:313. AT&T-Time Warner dealJUST WATCHED Judge approves AT&T-Time Warner deal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Judge approves AT&T-Time Warner deal 02:434. YemenAs many as a quarter million people are at risk as forces backed by a Saudi-led coalition have launched an attack on a port city in Yemen. The fighting started at dawn in Hodeidah, as forces hit the city's airport and some neighborhoods. The UN said it fears tens of thousands could be killed. The coalition is trying to wrest control of the city from Iran-backed Houthi rebels. Since March 2015, neighboring Saudi Arabia has been leading a coalition of Gulf states against Houthi rebels in Yemen, after the rebels drove out the US-backed and pro-Saudi government. The UN calls it the world's worst humanitarian crisis , with more than 22 million people in desperate need of aid and protection.JUST WATCHED Rare drone footage shows devastation in Yemen Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rare drone footage shows devastation in Yemen 04:355. MacedoniaThis Balkan nation may be prepping for a name change as a way to ease tensions with its neighbors to the south in Greece. The Prime Ministers of Macedonia and Greece reached an agreement that will result in Macedonia holding a referendum later this year on whether to change the country's name to the Northern Republic of Macedonia.You see, Greece isn't a big fan of another country using the name Macedonia because the northern, mountainous part of Greece has the same name. And Greece fears that the country of Macedonia has been harboring territorial ambitions toward Greece ever since it gained independence from Yugoslavia in the early '90s and took the name Macedonia. The name has caused problems with the EU, UN and even NATO, too. So, the hope is that changing the name will make everybody happy.JUST WATCHED Bourdain: Is this the world's most relaxing country? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bourdain: Is this the world's most relaxing country? 01:00BREAKFAST BROWSE#BoycottKanye? Never mind ...So much for fans abandoning Kanye. Ye's latest album debuted at No. 1 , his eighth straight to do so.JUST WATCHED Watch Kim and Kanye play 'Family Feud' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch Kim and Kanye play 'Family Feud' 01:36Comfort foodHe was there after the Haiti earthquake and after Hurricane Maria wracked Puerto Rico. Now, chef José Andrés is feeding the masses in Guatemala after the volcano.Numbers gameIt took 18 years, but faithfully playing the same numbers finally paid off for an Idaho man -- in the form of a $2 million Powerball jackpot.Media mergerLooks like congrats are in order for singer Ariana Grande, who is reportedly engaged to SNL's Pete Davidson.JUST WATCHED Ariana Grande is reportedly engaged Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ariana Grande is reportedly engaged 00:48Grandma knows bestThis grandmother ironed her granddaughter's Pride flag , and the internet pretty much collapsed with joy.TODAY'S NUMBER9That's the percentage of staff that Tesla is laying off , as the electric car maker, which has gone through something of a rough patch, restructuresJUST WATCHED Listen: Elon Musk's strange reactions on Tesla's earnings call Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Listen: Elon Musk's strange reactions on Tesla's earnings call 01:31AND FINALLYOne-man band