(CNN) Introducing the computer that can do more calculations per second than all of us could do in a year. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)US-North Korea summitPresident Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un both arrived in Singapore over the weekend, putting the world just hours away from a summit that several months ago would have been considered highly unlikely. ( Here's a timeline .) This first-ever meeting between a sitting US President and a North Korean leader will be a stunning contrast in styles: Trump's freewheeling, go-by-the-gut tendencies versus Kim's increasingly sophisticated geopolitical tactics. North Korean state media said the two will discuss denuclearization , but it's unclear if the North Koreans and the US share the same definition for that term.Trump's trip to Singapore comes after his wild weekend in Canada at the G7 summit, where he clashed with US allies over trade and tariffs and refused to sign off on the G7 communique, a negotiated statement on shared priorities among the group. So now it looks like a trade war is definitely on the horizon, with the other G7 nations prepping retaliatory measures of their own.Singapore summit: How did we get here?Singapore summit: How did we get here? 02:58Singapore summit: How did we get here?Migrant crisisHundreds of rescued migrants are stranded in the Mediterranean Sea after Malta and Italy refused to let them in their countries. The 629 people are aboard a ship call the Aquarius. The bulk of the migrants, from African and Middle East countries, were rescued from two rubber vessels over the weekend. Italy told the ship to "stand by in (their) current position," while Malta said it's not responsible for Aquarius' rescue effort. Doctors Without Borders, the humanitarian group that operates the Aquarius, said there was only about two or three days' worth of food and water left on the ship. European countries have tightened their borders over the past couple of years to stem the flow of migrants.Rescue boat carrying migrants from off the coast of Libya.Net neutralityIt's over, folks. The repeal of net neutrality officially kicks in today. The FCC voted along party lines in December to repeal the Obama-era rules, which were intended to stop internet providers from blocking, speeding up or slowing down access to specific online services. A repeal means a provider can play favorites. For example, a provider like Comcast could potentially allow its own video content to load faster than competing content on a service like, say, Vimeo. Alternatively, it could force Vimeo to pay more to get its content into the Internet's fast lane. So will you notice any changes today? Probably not. Lots of litigation needs to work its way through the courts, and lawmakers are weighing in too, so it may be awhile before things settle down.JUST WATCHED What is net neutrality? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is net neutrality? 01:37Anthony BourdainJason Rezaian -- a Washington Post journalist interviewed by Bourdain for the "Parts Unknown" episode about Iran who was later imprisoned there -- said Bourdain not only fought for his release but also helped him "get through what was really a tough reintegration ." He told CNN's Brian Stelter that the best way to honor Bourdain is to "keep traveling."But the sweetest tributes are coming from his fans , who offered heartfelt stories of how Bourdain changed their way of looking at life. A woman named Alyson said she didn't get her passport until she saw Bourdain's show when she was 24: "Anthony Bourdain brought the world to my fingertips and showed us all the world is beautiful, intriguing, and meant to be experienced."Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Anthony Bourdain shoots an episode of his CNN show "Parts Unknown" in Salvador, Brazil, in 2014. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures A young Bourdain, right, takes a photo with his dad, Pierre, and his brother, Christopher, on New Jersey's Long Beach Island in 1970. Pierre Bourdain was a music executive with Columbia Records. His wife, Gladys, was an editor for The New York Times. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain, left, is seen in the 1970s with fellow chefs in Provincetown, Massachusetts. He later went to culinary school before working at various restaurants in New York City. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain poses for a portrait in his New York apartment in 1997. Three years later, he published his best-selling book "Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly." Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain sits at his New York City restaurant Brasserie Les Halles in 2001. The Smithsonian once called Bourdain "the original rock star" of the culinary world. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain poses in a Sydney kitchen in 2005. He got his first TV show in 2002 when he hosted "A Cook's Tour" on the Food Network. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures His breakout show, "Anthony Bourdain: No Reservations," aired on the Travel Channel from 2005-2012. Bourdain would take viewers around the world to show how different cultures enjoy their food. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain joins another celebrity chef, Gordon Ramsay, in the kitchen of "The London," Ramsay's former restaurant in New York, in 2006. "Stunned and saddened by the loss of Anthony Bourdain," Ramsay said on Friday. "He brought the world into our homes and inspired so many people to explore cultures and cities through their food." Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain holds his daughter, Ariane, in 2008. Ariane was his only child. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain and his second wife, Ottavia, get matching snake tattoos in South Beach, Florida, in 2011. The two divorced in 2016. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain rides an all-terrain vehicle in Colombia while filming "Parts Unknown." The CNN show premiered in 2013. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain was also one of the judges on the reality show "The Taste," a cooking competition that ran from 2013-2015. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain enjoys a bite of food while on location in Vietnam. While accepting a Peabody Award for "Parts Unknown" in 2013, Bourdain said: "We ask very simple questions: What makes you happy? What do you eat? What do you like to cook? And everywhere in the world we go and ask these very simple questions. We tend to get some really astonishing answers." Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain visits the Serengeti plain in Tanzania in 2014. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain accepts an Emmy Award for "Parts Unknown" in 2014. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain films in Beirut, Lebanon, in 2015. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain and chef Eric Ripert have lunch in Marseille, France, in 2015. Ripert was the person who found Bourdain unresponsive in his hotel room in 2018. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain enjoys a "hangover cure" breakfast that chef Nigella Lawson made for him at her home in London in 2016. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain sits down with US President Barack Obama during a "Parts Unknown" episode in Hanoi, Vietnam, in 2016. Over a dish of bun cha, Obama shared personal stories and reflected on his own international travels. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain sits down for lunch with Hausa people in Lagos, Nigeria, in 2017. "People open up to him and, in doing so, often reveal more about their hometowns or homelands than a traditional reporter could hope to document," said judges for the Peabody Award, who honored Bourdain in 2013. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures While appearing on "The Tonight Show" with Jimmy Fallon in 2017, Bourdain plays a "Secret Ingredient" game with Fallon and actress Sienna Miller. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Anthony Bourdain's life in pictures Bourdain rides a train in Sri Lanka in 2017. Tributes poured in from all over the world after his death. "Tony Bourdain made the world a smarter, better place, and nobody will forget him," tweeted "Chopped" host Ted Allen. Hide Caption 22 of 22Tony AwardsWe're going to remember the 2018 edition of the Tony Awards for two moments, one heartwarming and one profane. The profane moment actually happened twice, when actor Robert DeNiro yelled "f**k Trump" a couple of times, to a standing ovation. The heartwarming moment was delivered by the drama students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, who performed "Seasons of Love" -- a song of love and loss -- from the Broadway musical "Rent." They, too, got a standing O. The night's big winner was the musical "The Band's Visit," and rocker Bruce Springsteen won a special Tony too. Check out the list of winners and the red carpet fashion show here.JUST WATCHED Parkland students perform at the Tony Awards Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Parkland students perform at the Tony Awards 00:10NUMBER OF THE DAY1-800-273-8255If you or someone you know might be at risk of suicide, the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline can provide free and confidential support 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in the US and is on the rise.BREAKFAST BROWSEWe are the championsBeen in DC the past few days? Then you've no doubt seen the joyous Washington Capitals hanging out with their new best friend -- the Stanley Cup.Into the lightExposure to sunlight could be lethal to her, but this brave California teen stepped out into the sun anyway to receive her high school diploma.Riley McCoy receiving her diploma.Send a ravenUpcoming Season 8 will be the last for "Game of Thrones," but HBO's already ordered up a prequel series to keep the fantasy fun going.JUST WATCHED 2017: See the magic behind 'Game of Thrones' dragons Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2017: See the magic behind 'Game of Thrones' dragons 02:31So sorryBoth ABC and "Quantico" star Priyanka Chopra apologized after a recent episode about Indian terrorists sparked intense backlash.The go-go girlsMeet KBG84, the Japanese pop band where no one is under 80 and the oldest member is a centenarian.Photos: Elderly pop band wants to redefine age Okinawa has earned a reputation as a "land of immortals" owing to its many healthy senior citizens. Some of them make up the pop band KBG48. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Elderly pop band wants to redefine age Tomi Menaka, 95, has her makeup done before a KBG48 rehearsal. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Elderly pop band wants to redefine age Centenarian Haru Yamashiro has trouble hearing but still moves quickly from place to place. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Elderly pop band wants to redefine age Members of KBG48 catch up before their monthly rehearsal. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Elderly pop band wants to redefine age Tomi Menaka says she still does the cleaning at home, but she sometimes eschews a diet of fruit and fiber for a quicker pot noodle fix. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Elderly pop band wants to redefine age The elderly residents of Kohama island, a plane ride and then a ferry ride from Okinawa, say they value living life to the full. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Elderly pop band wants to redefine age Yamashiro walks home by herself after KBG48's monthly meetup wraps up. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Elderly pop band wants to redefine age Natsuko Maenaka, 84, wants to stay mentally healthy. She likes to find new countries on the map and remember where they are. Hide Caption 8 of 8AND FINALLYBlast away