(CNN) If spending almost 20 hours on a plane is your idea of fun, then you better get your tickets now for the world's longest nonstop flight . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia investigationPresident Trump's legal team, prepping for a high-stakes meeting with special counsel Robert Mueller, talked with its client as he flew back from the North Korea summit. The team is gaming out the next move as it gets ready for a potential showdown with Mueller over the President's willingness to answer his questions about the Russia investigation. The President still entertains the possibility of sitting down with Mueller, but most of his legal team remains skeptical, multiple sources tell CNN. If Trump refuses an interview with Mueller, he could be subpoenaed, and the resulting fight over that could drag out the Russia investigation for another "nine to 15 months."Meanwhile, Trump's personal attorney, Michael Cohen, has split with his legal team . It could signal a shift in strategy as criminal charges could become more likely as investigators sift through his financial dealings, including the payment he made to porn star Stormy Daniels on Trump's behalf before the election.2. Interest ratesThe red-hot economy shows no sign of cooling down, so the Federal Reserve feels comfortable enough to raise rates. The Fed raised the federal funds rate -- which helps determine rates for mortgages, credit cards and other borrowing -- a quarter of a percentage point to a range of 1.75% to 2%. It's the second rate hike for the year, and it won't be the last. Two more rate increases are expected this year, as the Fed tries to stay ahead of inflation, which has crept up a bit as of late. Wall Street, of course, didn't like the hike; the Dow fell 119 points.JUST WATCHED Fed Chair: The economy is doing very well Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fed Chair: The economy is doing very well 01:123. North KoreaThere's a dispute between Washington and Pyongyang over sanctions. North Korean state media said the US would start easing up on sanctions as the nation made progress on getting rid of its nukes. Not so, says Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who said there will be no sanctions relief for the North while it still has nuclear weapons.Meantime, President Trump was still taking a victory lap after returning from his summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, tweeting : "There is no longer a Nuclear Threat from North Korea," and we could all "sleep well tonight." But lots of folks are disputing that notion, since the Trump-Kim sit-down produced no verifiable proof that the rogue regime will discontinue its nuclear program. And the White House is expected, as soon as today, to formally call off military drills with South Korea , one of the more shocking results of the summit.JUST WATCHED How N. Korea reported on the Trump-Kim summit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How N. Korea reported on the Trump-Kim summit 02:394. Migrant crisisRemember those 630 migrants left stranded in the Mediterranean after Italy and Malta refused to let them in? Well, now they're on an 800-mile journey to Spain, after officials there agreed to accept them . The migrants, now on three ships, are headed to Valencia. Once there, they'll be given a 15-day permit to stay, during which they can start the asylum process. Their saga has become a diplomatic hot potato in Europe, where anti-immigrant sentiment and strained resources have butted up against migrants arriving by the thousandsJUST WATCHED Migrant rescue ship begins 4-day journey Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Migrant rescue ship begins 4-day journey 02:075. World CupBut wait, there's more! If you don't know whom to root for since your country's not in it (we're looking at you, Americans) this handy guide is a must-read. And it's never too early to start dreaming about future World Cups, now that we know the US, Mexico and Canada will host the event in 2026.JUST WATCHED The secrets to Germany's World Cup success Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The secrets to Germany's World Cup success 01:23TODAY'S QUOTES"Separating babies from their mothers is not the answer and is immoral."Cardinal Daniel DiNardo, president of the US Conference of Catholic Bishops, criticizing the Trump administration's immigration policy of separating families caught crossing the border illegallyJUST WATCHED Surge in family separation at border Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Surge in family separation at border 01:52"I know it means so much to so many people."London Breed, reflecting on her election as mayor of San Francisco . She's the first black woman to win the city's top job.JUST WATCHED First black woman elected to lead San Francisco Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH First black woman elected to lead San Francisco 00:51BREAKFAST BROWSEAfghanistan's 'Malala'Two years ago, the Taliban shot her in the leg and foot and left her for dead. But that didn't stop Breshna Musazai from graduating from college -- with honors.(Sur)real estateIf you're into ghost towns -- and who isn't? -- you can buy one in California for a cool $925,000.Comfort foodHe felt sympathy for the 54 undocumented immigrants found in the back of a tractor-trailer. So, he bought them all pizzaBeyond the callWhen a Florida man called the cops because he wanted his drugs tested , the police were more than happy to oblige.HAPPENING LATERAbortion voteLawmakers in Argentina are expected to vote today on a bill that would relax the nation's highly restrictive abortion laws.TODAY'S NUMBERS62The number of people Border Patrol agents found in ONE house after they raided a two-bedroom home in Laredo, TexasJUST WATCHED Dozens of undocumented immigrants found in raid Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dozens of undocumented immigrants found in raid 01:47$65 billionThat's how much Comcast is putting on the table to buy most of 21st Century Fox. The cable giant hopes to beat out Disney, which has already made a $52.4 billion bid for Fox.JUST WATCHED Netflix is worth more than Disney Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Netflix is worth more than Disney 01:11AND FINALLYWhere do we sign up for this job?