(CNN) History was made in Saudi Arabia as the kingdom issued its first driver's licenses to women . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia investigationThe Special Counsel's Office has accused Paul Manafort of attempting to get witnesses to lie for him in court, and they've asked the judge to send him to jail as he awaits his trial, according to a filing in DC District Court Monday night. One of the witnesses told investigators recently that Manafort wanted them to commit perjury about a lobbying effort they worked on for him in the US, the filing said.Manafort is currently on house arrest with a $10 million unsecured bail. He awaits a trial in Virginia that is scheduled for late July and a trial in DC scheduled to begin in September. He has pleaded not guilty to charges related to his failure to disclose his US lobbying work for a foreign government and to bank fraud and other financial crimes.2. IranJUST WATCHED Renewed Iran sanctions may hurt France as well Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Renewed Iran sanctions may hurt France as well 02:593. Supreme CourtA Colorado baker who refused to bake a wedding cake for a same-sex couple got a win at the Supreme Court . The 7-2 decision found that the Colorado Civil Rights Commission showed hostility toward the baker because of his Christian beliefs. But the narrow focus of the ruling means the Supremes are leaving the bigger constitutional questions about religious liberty -- and whether gay people can be denied goods or services because of a merchant's religious beliefs -- to be answered another day.JUST WATCHED Same-sex couple reacts to Supreme Court ruling Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Same-sex couple reacts to Supreme Court ruling 01:424. VolcanoesThe death toll keeps rising after the eruption of Guatemala's Fuego volcano. At least 69 people are dead , and rescuers are braving scalding ash and the risk of mudslides as they try to find survivors and retrieve bodies. Volcanic ash, which buried entire towns, has now covered a 12-mile radius. Meanwhile in Hawaii, earthquakes are still rocking the Kilauea volcano's summit, and lava has covered nearly 5,000 acres on the Big Island. At least 117 homes have been destroyed since the lava began pouring last month.JUST WATCHED Danger looms after Guatemala volcano eruption Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Danger looms after Guatemala volcano eruption 02:54So, why has the volcano in Guatemala been so much deadlier than the one in Hawaii? The answer is speed. Lava from Kilauea moves much slower than the dangerous mix of ash, rock and gases spewing from Fuego. This mix, known as pyroclastic flow, can race down a volcano at hundreds of kilometers per hour.JUST WATCHED Lava spills through Hawaii neighborhood Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lava spills through Hawaii neighborhood 01:125. Trump and the NFLThe Philadelphia Eagles' Super Bowl championship will be celebrated at the White House today. But the champs won't be there. President Trump disinvited the team from the traditional White House celebration amid the controversy over NFL players not standing for the National Anthem . Trump put out a fiery statement that pretty much questioned the team's patriotism and accused the players of not wanting to "proudly stand" for the anthem (even though none of the Eagles took a knee during the regular season). Trump instead invited the team's fans to "celebrate America" with him during a ceremony featuring the United States Marine Band and the United States Army Chorus.JUST WATCHED Eagles visit to White House canceled Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Eagles visit to White House canceled 01:24TODAY'S NUMBER148The number of people -- most of them women and children -- rescued Sunday from the clutches of Boko Haram by the Nigerian armyJUST WATCHED Nigerian army frees 1,000 Boko Haram captives in May Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Nigerian army frees 1,000 Boko Haram captives in May 02:19BREAKFAST BROWSERIPDwight Clark and "The Catch" are linked together forever in NFL lore, but the ex-49ers wide receiver will also be remembered for his brave battle with ALSWho asked for that?Yes, Apple, we're excited about Memoji and tools to fight tech addiction. But group FaceTime with as many as 32 people? That sounds ... like ... hell.JUST WATCHED Apple CEO: I use my phone too much Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Apple CEO: I use my phone too much 01:59'Imagine' thatA fourth-grader goes viral by simply sitting down at a piano and wowing a talent show crowdJUST WATCHED 10-year-old boy wows with 'Imagine' cover Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 10-year-old boy wows with 'Imagine' cover 00:37Football fashion showThese days, it's really not World Cup time until everybody's had a chance to drool over those stylish kits (that's jerseys, for you non-soccer fans).Photos: The most stylish football kits of World Cup 2018 Taking inspiration from the team's "Super Eagles" nickname, Nike's kit for Nigeria's football team features a bold neon green pattern that echoes the pattern of eagle wing feathers. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: The most stylish football kits of World Cup 2018 The Nike design team went to the Sao Paulo's football museum to inspect the revered jersey worn by the 1970 World Cup-winning team, just to make sure they got the shade of yellow exactly right in their new jersey. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: The most stylish football kits of World Cup 2018 The kit is also reminiscent of what the Nigerian team wore at the 1994 World Cup, its debut at the tournament. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: The most stylish football kits of World Cup 2018 For Germany, Adidas looked to the past. The horizontal graphic printed across the chest recalls the uniform won by the German team that won the 1990 World Cup team. The gold crest symbolizes the defending champs' victory in 2014. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: The most stylish football kits of World Cup 2018 Similarly, Nike adorned its Portuguese kits with gold swooshes and player numbers are a nod to the team's victory at the UEFA Euro 2016 tournament. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: The most stylish football kits of World Cup 2018 For Belgium, Adidas has revisited a classic from the European Championships of 1984, bringing the distinctive argyle-print chest pattern into a new era. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: The most stylish football kits of World Cup 2018 For its Japanese kits, Adidas drew heavily on the ancient Sachiko stitching technique, with the rough white threads on an indigo base. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: The most stylish football kits of World Cup 2018 Poland, who will be competing at the World Cup for the first time in 12 years, will wear a design inspired by the eagle, a national symbol. According to Nike, the diagonal chest pattern -- rendered in white and gray on the home kit, and red and two shades of red on the away kit -- "represents the pride of the eagle cutting through the competition." Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: The most stylish football kits of World Cup 2018 It's not all about witty design references this year. The red-and-white checkered design for Croatia's Nike-designed kit is an obvious riff on the checkered crest at the center of the Croatian flag. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: The most stylish football kits of World Cup 2018 Adidas' design for Argentina features not only the colors of the country's flag, but also laurels, which are part of the Argentinian coat of arms. These patriotic inclusions are in honor of the Argentine Football Association's 125th anniversary. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: The most stylish football kits of World Cup 2018 Talk about attention to detail: The button on the collar of the Nike-designed French kit is imprinted with the words "Liberté, Egalité, Fraternité" -- "Freedom, Equality, Fraternity" -- the French national motto. Hide Caption 11 of 11HAPPENING LATERSemi-Super TuesdayJUST WATCHED California Democrats have a big problem in 2018 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH California Democrats have a big problem in 2018 02:50TODAY'S QUOTE"It was a mistake. I swear to God."Rudy Giuliani, giving CNN's Chris Cuomo yet another explanation for why the disclosure by the President's attorneys that Trump did indeed dictate a statement on the infamous June 2016 Trump Tower meeting isn't a lieJUST WATCHED Giuliani on Trump Tower statement: It was a mistake Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Giuliani on Trump Tower statement: It was a mistake 01:01AND FINALLYTaco Tuesday