Story highlights 1968 remains arguably the most historic year in modern American historyRevered leaders such as Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy were assassinatedNorth Korea captured a U.S. ship; Olympic athletes raised fists in Black Power saluteWith the Apollo 8 mission, for the first time in history humans orbited the Moon1968 was a year of triumphs and tragedies. While America reached new heights by introducing the first 747 and orbiting the moon, all was not well down on Earth. The United States lost a Navy intelligence ship and two proponents of peace -- the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy.Here are eight events that made history during that unforgettable year.1. January 23: North Korea captures the USS PuebloWhen North Korea captured the American surveillance ship USS Pueblo, it sparked an 11-month crisis that threatened to worsen already high Cold War tensions in the region.The trouble started with the Pueblo. It had been nearly 15 years since the Korean War between U.S.-led forces and the North. The Navy intelligence ship was monitoring North Korea from the Tsushima Strait, an ocean channel dividing Korea and Japan.The Navy said its ship was operating in international waters, but North Korea said the Pueblo had entered its territory, and dispatched warships and aircraft to intercept it. Accounts differ on both sides as to what really happened. Eventually, there was an exchange of gunfire. U.S. crewman Duane Hodges was killed.The North Korean military boarded the Pueblo, captured its crew and brought the ship to port in North Korea.The Pueblo's 82 surviving crew members reported that while in custody, they were held at a POW camp where they were tortured and starved.JUST WATCHED RFK jr. on '68: 'An idealistic time" Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH RFK jr. on '68: 'An idealistic time" 03:43JUST WATCHED The Sixties: 1968 Trailer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The Sixties: 1968 Trailer 00:29JUST WATCHED What is NASA's next giant leap? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is NASA's next giant leap? 02:57JUST WATCHED MLK III talks about parents, civil rights Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH MLK III talks about parents, civil rights 03:59Photos: Forgotten stories from the '60s Photos: Forgotten stories from the '60s Forgotten stories from the '60s – The 1960s is known for the major moments that shaped history -- civil rights, Vietnam, the assassinations of Kennedy and King. But the decade was also full of smaller events that also indicated change was in the wind. Remember Liz 'n Dick? Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor's tempestuous marriage(s) gave us celebrity media coverage on steroids -- and we're still living with the aftermath (Think Kim and Kanye or Brad and Angie ). Click through the gallery for lesser known '60s moments that still resonate today: Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Forgotten stories from the '60s Forgotten stories from the '60s – The United Nations has often been criticized as ineffectual, but Dag Hammarskjold, its second secretary-general, was determined to change that. "(The major powers) thought they had got a safe, bureaucratic civil servant, nonpolitical, and they got Hammarskjold. It will never happen again," an aide once said. Hammarskjold died in a plane crash on September 18, 1961, while trying to settle conflict in the Congo. He was the first person posthumously awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Forgotten stories from the '60s Forgotten stories from the '60s – Charles Whitman -- who had already killed his wife and mother -- went to the top of the University of Texas Tower and shot 46 people, killing 16. In the '60s, such a mass shooting was almost unthinkable. In recent years, On August 1, 1966,-- who had already killed his wife and mother -- went to the top of the University of Texas Tower and shot 46 people, killing 16. In the '60s, such a mass shooting was almost unthinkable. In recent years, we've experienced them more often Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Forgotten stories from the '60s Forgotten stories from the '60s – Catherine "Kitty" Genovese was stabbed by a 29-year-old stranger, Winston Moseley. Two weeks later, The New York Times ran a story that said 38 people had heard her cries, but nobody rushed to help, not wanting to "get involved," said one. Though On March 13, 1964,by a 29-year-old stranger, Winston Moseley. Two weeks later, The New York Times ran a story that said 38 people had heard her cries, but nobody rushed to help, not wanting to "get involved," said one. Though the details turned out to be overstated or inaccurate , the depiction of uncaring city dwellers has haunted society ever since. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Forgotten stories from the '60s Forgotten stories from the '60s – Santa Barbara oil spill, caused by a blow-out at a platform off the California coast, was the worst in American history. (It has since been succeeded by the 1989 Exxon Valdez spill and the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster.) The scope of the spill, which polluted waters and killed sea life, was At the time it occurred in early 1969, thecaused by a blow-out at a platform off the California coast, was the worst in American history. (It has since been succeeded by the 1989 Exxon Valdez spill and the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster.) The scope of the spill, which polluted waters and killed sea life, was key to creating environmental protection laws and the Environmental Protection Agency Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Forgotten stories from the '60s Forgotten stories from the '60s – Caryl Chessman, was a small-time hoodlum who was given the death penalty after being convicted of robbery, kidnapping and rape. In prison, Chessman wrote a memoir -- "Cell 2455, Death Row" -- and energized the anti-capital punishment movement. He was put to death on May 2, 1960. The death-row debate remains a prominent one in American culture. The man who helped put it there,, was a small-time hoodlum who was given the death penalty after being convicted of robbery, kidnapping and rape. In prison, Chessman wrote a memoir -- "Cell 2455, Death Row" -- and energized the anti-capital punishment movement. He was put to death on May 2, 1960. The debate continues Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Forgotten stories from the '60s Forgotten stories from the '60s – Anchorage, Alaska, was shaken by a magnitude 9.2 earthquake, the most powerful earthquake in U.S. history. An estimated 139 people died, most due to tsunamis in Alaska and down North America's West Coast. It made the front page, but a similar event today, thanks to news-gathering technology, would likely be even more heavily covered. At least On March 27, 1964 -- Good Friday -- the area around, the most powerful earthquake in U.S. history. An estimated 139 people died, most due to tsunamis in Alaska and down North America's West Coast. It made the front page, but a similar event today, thanks to news-gathering technology, would likely be even more heavily covered. At least scientists learned a lot Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Forgotten stories from the '60s Forgotten stories from the '60s – 1966 Black and White Ball. Held in honor of the Washington Post's Katharine Graham -- pictured on the far left -- it was more of an excuse for a Capote party. The 500 attendees included Frank Sinatra, CBS founder William Paley, You don't hear much about "society" anymore, but it still mattered in the '60s when Truman Capote (center) mixed socialites and celebrities with his. Held in honor of the Washington Post's Katharine Graham -- pictured on the far left -- it was more of an excuse for a Capote party. The 500 attendees included Frank Sinatra, CBS founder William Paley, Lauren Bacall -- pictured on the far right dancing with choreographer Jerome Robbins -- three presidential daughters and Capote's elevator man . It was both a throwback to the swell soirees of the past and a precursor to the media-mad, celebrity-studded bashes of today. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Forgotten stories from the '60s Forgotten stories from the '60s – For 114 days in the winter of 1962-63, a strike shut down New York's daily newspapers. Publishing resumed in March 1963, but things had changed: in short order, the city went from seven newspapers to three, and TV and radio news became more important. The strike symbolized how easily people's news media preferences can shift -- something quite familiar in the internet age. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Forgotten stories from the '60s Forgotten stories from the '60s – death of Aldous Huxley, the famed author of "Brave New World," was little noted at the time -- not because he was a minor figure, but because he happened to die on November 22, 1963. Yes, the same day John F. Kennedy was shot. (C.S. Lewis also died that day.) It's an indicator that media coverage of one death can overwhelm all other news. Farrah Fawcett, who The, the famed author of "Brave New World," was little noted at the time -- not because he was a minor figure, but because he happened to die on November 22, 1963. Yes, the same day John F. Kennedy was shot. (C.S. Lewis also died that day.) It's an indicator that media coverage of one death can overwhelm all other news. Farrah Fawcett, who died the same day as Michael Jackson , could probably relate. Hide Caption 10 of 10North Korea staged a news conference during which the crew was forced to applaud the North Koreans for treating them kindly.During the news conference crew members laced their comments with sarcasm and extended their middle fingers in defiance.When North Korea learned later that the Americans had mocked them, the crew was severely beaten.After months of negotiations, North Korea agreed to free the crewmen after the United States. acknowledged that the Pueblo had been spying and promised not to spy in the future.On December 23, the crew was allowed to safely return to South Korean territory. Immediately, the U.S. retracted its acknowledgments.The crew was home in time for Christmas. But the USS Pueblo remains in North Korean custody.2. January 30: North Vietnam launches the Tet Offensive against the United States and South VietnamIn many ways, the bloody Tet Offensive signified the beginning of the end of U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War.The coordinated attack by 85,000 Viet Cong and North Vietnamese targeted 36 major cities and towns in South Vietnam. It caught U.S.-led forces by surprise.Named after the Vietnamese Lunar New Year, Tet was a holiday during which the North and South had previously observed an informal truce.U.S. and South Vietnamese forces eventually regained control of the communities they lost during Tet.Nevertheless, it became a wake-up call for Americans back home, who began withdrawing their support for the war.3. April 4: Martin Luther King Jr. assassinated in Memphis, TennesseeThe Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. was standing on the second floor balcony of room 306 at the Lorraine Motel when he was struck by a bullet at 6:01 p.m.The 39-year-old civil rights leader was rushed to nearby St. Joseph's Hospital but never regained consciousness. He was pronounced dead at 7:05 p.m.King's fellow civil rights pioneers made public pleas for a nonviolent response to honor his memory. But riots broke out in more than 100 cities across the nation.Two months later, James Earl Ray was captured at London's Heathrow Airport. Fingerprints that had been traced back to Ray linked him to the crime. He confessed but later attempted to recant.Then he pleaded guilty to avoid the possibility of a death sentence. Later Ray tried to withdraw his guilty plea and obtain a new trial. He died in prison in 1998.On the night King was assassinated, Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy arrived in Indianapolis on a campaign stop. Upon hearing the news, Kennedy informed a crowd of listeners about King's death.They reacted with gasps and cries. Kennedy urged the crowd against bitterness, hatred or revenge. He called on them to embrace King's message of love, wisdom and compassion toward one another. Kennedy's speech is believed to have prevented rioting in Indianapolis that night.4. June 5: Robert F. Kennedy assassinated in Los AngelesJust two months later, Kennedy himself was gunned down by an assassin at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles.The attack took place shortly after Kennedy had wrapped up a speech in the hotel ballroom. As he cut through a kitchen corridor on his way to another part of the building, a Jordanian born Palestinian named Sirhan Sirhan opened fire, hitting Kennedy in the head and back.Kennedy collapsed and was rushed to the hospital, where he underwent brain surgery. Twenty-six hours after the attack, Kennedy died. He was 42.Convicted of the murder in 1969, his death sentence was commuted to life in prison in 1972. Sirhan remains in a California prison.5. September 30: Boeing introduces the first 747 "Jumbo Jet"When demand for air travel reached sky-high levels in the 1960s, the world's then-largest passenger aircraft -- the Boeing 747 Jumbo Jet -- was a game changer. The ability to carry far more passengers than previous airliners suddenly made globetrotting a feasible option for would-be wanderers who previously thought they would never afford such exotic sojourns.Boeing continues to produce new versions of its historic 747 model airliner more than 40 years after the original. This 747-8 Intercontinental was the 1,500th to come off the production line earlier this year.The massive aircraft was indeed an aviation design milestone. More than six stories tall, it seated 374 passengers and weighed 300 tons.After its 1968 reveal, the 747 made its first flight on February 9, 1969, near Boeing's factory in western Washington state. That specific plane flew more than 12,000 test flights, but it never carried passengers for a major airline. Rather, it was a test plane for engine developments, various improvements and future jet airliners.6. October 16: U.S. athletes take a stand at the Summer OlympicsDuring the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, two black athletes staged a silent demonstration against racial discrimination in the United States.For the simple defiant act of raising their fists during the National Anthem, the International Olympic Committee condemned American medalists Tommie Smith and John Carlos.Photos: The forgotten Black Power hero Photos: The forgotten Black Power hero The forgotten hero – This salute made Smith and Carlos famous. But what of sprinter Peter Norman, who finished second? Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: The forgotten Black Power hero Lighting the fire – The 1968 Mexico Olympics began in controversial fashion. Revolution -- from Cuba to China -- was spreading across the world. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: The forgotten Black Power hero Death of innocence – Mexico was rocked by huge student protests just before the opening ceremony. What followed was one of the most shameful incidents in Olympic history. Hundreds of young people were gunned down. The evidence was quickly cleaned up before the athletes arrived. To this day protesters mark the anniversary of the massacre. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: The forgotten Black Power hero America burns – Race riots had spread across the U.S. following the assassination of Martin Luther King Junior. The Vietnam War was raging, and in the same year Robert Kennedy was also assassinated. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: The forgotten Black Power hero Black Power to the people – The U.S. track and field team arrived in Mexico eager to show their support to the civil rights movement back home. The world was watching to see what the team's black athletes, many of whom had received death threats, would do. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: The forgotten Black Power hero The finishing line – Smith won the 200 meters but Carlos (center) was beaten by Norman (far left) on the line. Norman's time of 20 seconds flat would have won gold at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: The forgotten Black Power hero Fists of fury – Norman wore a pro-human rights pin badge. It was his suggestion that the two U.S. runners wore a glove each after Carlos realized he had forgotten his pair. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: The forgotten Black Power hero The fallout – The American athletes were sent home and given life Olympic bans. Smith returned to poverty and Carlos struggled to find work. Eventually he was hired, and later fired, as a car washer. Such was the pressure on his return, his wife committed suicide. Hide Caption 8 of 8Their protest shocked many people who felt it damaged the spirit of the Olympics and unnecessarily brought politics into the Games.As Smith and Carlos were awarded the gold and bronze medals for their performances in the 200-meter race, they bowed their heads and each raised a black gloved fist during the playing of the Star Spangled Banner.The protest didn't stop with their fists. They also wore black socks and no shoes. On their clothes were badges of the Olympic Project for Human Rights, a group dedicated against racial segregation and racism in sports. Also wearing the patch in support of Smith and Carlos was Australian 200-meter silver medalist Peter Norman.Spectators booed the medalists as they walked away from the ceremony."If I win I am an American, not a black American," Smith said later. "But if I did something bad then they would say 'a Negro.' We are black and we are proud of being black."Smith said his raised right fist symbolized black power in America.He also wore a black scarf, which he said represented black pride. He said the black socks with no shoes symbolized black poverty.Carlos, who had raised his left fist, said the gesture was a display of black unity and that the two men's fists combined had created an arch of unity and power.Carlos also wore beads, which he explained "were for those individuals that were lynched, or killed that no one said a prayer for, that were hung and tarred." He said they also were for those thrown off the side of boats that carried slaves across the Atlantic from Africa.Two days later, Smith and Carlos were expelled from Team USA. When they returned home, they were hailed as heroes by members of the African-American community.7. November 22: "Star Trek" airs American television's first interracial kissIn an episode of TV's original "Star Trek" entitled "Plato's Stepchildren," the crew aboard the Starship Enterprise became enslaved by humanoid Platonians, who possessed a telekinetic ability to force them to do anything the Platonians wanted them to do.In 1968 "Star Trek" actors Nichelle Nichols and William Shatner performed the first interracial kiss on American TV.Enterprise Capt. James Kirk, a white man played by William Shatner, was forced to kiss Nichelle Nichols' character, Lt. Nyota Uhura, a black woman.Censors at NBC insisted on filming an alternate version sans smooch -- fearing that local TV affiliates in the Deep South would refuse to air the episode.Shatner is reported to have purposefully ruined all the alternative takes so the network would be forced to air the kiss.Appropriately, Kirk has this line in the episode: "Where I come from, size, shape or color makes no difference."8. December 24: Apollo 8 is the first manned spacecraft to orbit the moonOn Christmas Eve, three astronauts circled the moon 10 times. Jim Lovell, Bill Anders and Frank Borman became the first human beings to travel to the moon.This 1968 image of the Earth rising over the moon is among the first ever photos of our planet taken by humans from deep space.Launched from the Kennedy Space Center, Apollo 8 was a mission of firsts:-The first photos of Earth taken from deep space by humans, including the now iconic "Earthrise"--The first time the lunar surface was broadcast on live television-The first time humans had traveled to the far side of the moonThe weeklong mission was fueled by a Space Race rivalry with the Soviet Union and the nation's desire to fulfill President John F. Kennedy's wishes to land on the moon by decade's end, a goal accomplished by Apollo 11 seven months later.As Apollo 8 emerged from the mysterious dark side of the moon before heading back to Earth, a relieved Lovell announced to the world, "Houston, please be informed there is a Santa Claus."This amazing and joyous mission was a rare high note in a year filled with historically tragic events. According to "A Man on the Moon," Andrew Chaikin's book on the Apollo program, the astronauts received countless telegrams after they returned safely home. But one stuck out from the others.It said, "You saved 1968."