Story highlights Arthur weakens to a post-tropical storm early SaturdayTropical storm warnings for parts of the Northeast are droppedParts of New England can expect heavy rain SaturdayArthur was downgraded from a hurricane to a post-tropical storm on Saturday, as its sustained winds dropped to 85 mph, according to CNN meteorologists.Tropical storm warnings previously issued for Nantucket and Cape Cod have been discontinued.The first named storm of this hurricane season caused street flooding and knocked out power along the North Carolina coast. The area appears to have been spared from large-scale damage.The center of Arthur is forecast to pass over or near western Nova Scotia on Saturday while also bringing heavy rain to New England, CNN meteorologists said.Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast – An aerial photo provided by the U.S. Coast Guard shows flooding caused by Hurricane Arthur on the Outer Banks of North Carolina on Friday, July 4. Arthur struck North Carolina as a Category 2 storm with winds of 100 mph late Thursday, taking about five hours to move across the far eastern part of the state. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast – Water from Hurricane Arthur buckled a section of North Carolina Highway 12 on Hatteras Island, seen July 4 in a photo provided by the North Carolina Department of Transportation. It is the same spot on Hatteras Island that was breached in Hurricane Irene in 2011. Proving far less damaging than feared, Hurricane Arthur left tens of thousands of people without power Friday in a swipe at North Carolina's exposed Outer Banks. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast – Bryan Wilson, owner of Miller's Waterfront restaurant, braves floodwaters to check the damage to his property as wind from Hurricane Arthur pushes water to his parking lot in Nags Head, North Carolina, on July 4. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast – Power company trucks travel along Highway 64 after flooding caused by Hurricane Arthur on July 4 in Nags Head, North Carolina. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast – People walk along a flooded street in Manteo, North Carolina, on July 4. Hurricane Arthur made landfall between Cape Lookout and Beaufort, North Carolina, the National Hurricane Center said. It was a Category 2 when it came ashore, but it soon weakened to a Category 1 as it made its way north. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast – Johanna Bender, left, helps Katie Bender dump water from her boot in Manteo on July 4. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast – A worker repairs power lines July 4 along Highway 58 in Emerald Isle, North Carolina. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast – Vehicles drive through a flooded highway in Nags Head, North Carolina on July 4. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast – A car sits in rising waters in Nags Head on July 4. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast – Traffic moves down a partially flooded road in Garden City Beach, South Carolina, on Thursday, July 3. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast – Bodi Duncan surfs the waves at Garden City Beach as Arthur passes off the South Carolina coast on July 3. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast – Waves kicked up by the storm are seen July 3 at the pier in Cherry Grove Beach, South Carolina. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Photos: Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast Hurricane Arthur hits East Coast – Astronaut Reid Wiseman, aboard the International Space Station, posted this photo of the storm to Twitter on July 3. Hide Caption 13 of 13The coast of Maine can expect 40 mph winds as Arthur passes.The hurricane center warns that potentially deadly rip currents can still form at beaches from the mid-Atlantic northward, even though Arthur may be far away.