(CNN) Welcome to the weekend, when the days of shopping tax-free on Amazon comes to an end . (But you have more space on Twitter to vent about it ). Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .By the way, you can also get "5 Things" as an e-mailed newsletter. Sign up here1. The Russia sagaWe could do the entire newsletter on the twists and turns of the White House-Russia controversy. Let's recap developments from yesterday alone:-- It wasn't just the Dems that the Russians targeted with cybermeddling during the election. They also took aim at all Republican opponents of Trump -- and the meddling didn't stop after the election, a cybersecurity expert told a Senate panel.-- The cast of characters in this drama can be confusing. Here's our explainer.2. Interstate collapseJUST WATCHED Massive fire crumbles interstate bridge Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Massive fire crumbles interstate bridge 01:59Traffic is always hellish in Atlanta. And it's only going to get worse after a section of the city's busy Interstate 85 collapsed during a fire that broke out under an elevated part of the roadway. Thankfully no one was hurt , but the interstate could be closed there for months. It isn't just a problem for Atlanta. I-85 is a major north-south artery in the Southeast, so drivers passing through the area -- including hordes of spring breakers this weekend -- will need to find alternate routes.3. Bathroom billJUST WATCHED North Carolina repeals bathroom law Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North Carolina repeals bathroom law 01:154. SettlementsJUST WATCHED Building in the West Bank settlement blocs Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Building in the West Bank settlement blocs 03:045. SyriaThe Trump administration says its priority in Syria is fighting ISIS and not so much getting rid of President Bashar al-Assad . The Syrian people will decide Assad's future, says Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. And US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley says sure, Assad's a hindrance, but "are we going to sit there and focus on getting him out? No." At the same time, though, Haley called Assad, whose nation is now in its sixth year of bloody civil conflict , a "war criminal." If the US does definitively abandon the get-rid-of-Assad-policy, that would put it closer in line with Russia and at odds with allies in Europe.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Name gameA 2-year-old girl has no last name right now because the state of Georgia won't let her parents give her the one they want: Allah.WorkaroundDon't let that electronics ban on some flights get you down. Qatar Airlines wants to lend you a laptopSay cheeseDrunk in cheese anyone?Phone featuresYes, the new Samsung Galaxy S8 has a lot of cool features , like a virtual assistant. But mostly everyone just wants a battery that won't explode.Yes, reallyAND FINALLY ...Need for speedAn inventor uses a sports bike engine to create the world's fastest bumper car because, well, why not?