(CNN) Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. Trump administration2. North KoreaNorth Korea is back at it again with the missiles. They fired four ballistic missiles into the waters off the coast of Japan this morning. Japan called it an "extremely dangerous action," and South Korea also condemned the test. Experts think this latest showing from the volatile nation is in response to joint military exercises between South Korea and the US, which North Korea sees as a possible precursor to invasion. It may also be a sign that the nation's missile program is speeding up its progress.JUST WATCHED North Korea fires 4 ballistic missiles Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North Korea fires 4 ballistic missiles 01:193. MarinesThe Navy has opened an investigation after someone posted explicit photos of female Marines and other service members online. The photos were published on a Google drive folder that was shared to a private Facebook group, where members asked other people to submit photos of women without their knowledge. It's not yet clear how many people were involved in the exchange.4. Sikh shootingA Sikh man was shot in the arm while cleaning his car in Seattle on Friday, and now the incident is being investigated as a hate crime . The victim told police the gunman said "Go back to your country" before attacking him. If that sounds sadly familiar, it's because a different gunman said a similar thing before shooting three people at a Kansas bar in February. One man, an Indian immigrant, was killed in that attack.JUST WATCHED Sikh shooting investigated as hate crime Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sikh shooting investigated as hate crime 00:595. MosulMore than 57,000 Iraqis have fled Mosul over the last few weeks. T he exodus was spurred by a military operation that started last month to take back the western part of the city from ISIS. The Iraqi government is providing relief and food, but residents are facing even more danger now: A handful of citizens were injured in a suspected chemical attack last week. That kind of warfare, which has horrific human consequences, goes against international law.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.'Do you beat your wife?'That was one of the questions two Muslim men had to answer before they could talk to an Oklahoma state legislator. Yeesh.Russian lawmaker wants to ban 'Beauty and the Beast' remakeHe called it a " shameless propaganda of sin ," which actually makes a pretty intriguing Rotten Tomatoes review.JUST WATCHED Could Russia ban 'Beauty and the Beast'? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Could Russia ban 'Beauty and the Beast'? 00:55Louisiana Congressman apologizes for Kellyanne Conway remarkThis is what happens to your brain when you give up sugarHow a deformed doggo avoided death and gained internet fameAnd finally ...I'm so freaked out by this bird singing RihannaPut on headphones, turn the volume up, whatever you need to do to hear this impression.