(CNN) Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. South KoreaSouth Korean President Park Geun-hye has been removed over alleged corruption . The country's first female president is now its first president to be impeached and thrown out of office. After judges finalized the decision, citizens took to the streets -- some in protest, others in celebration. Two people were killed when some demonstrations turned violent.An election will be held in 60 days for a new president. Until then, South Korea's political uncertainty could be a problem for the region, as North Korea ramps up its nuclear weapons testing program2. Russia3. GermanyPolice and emergency workers stand outside the main railway station Thursday following what police described as an ax attack in Dusseldorf, Germany.A man wounded seven people with an ax Thursday in an attack at a train station in Dusseldorf, Germany. Police arrested the suspect, who they called "a 36-year-old man from the former Yugoslavia" who "obviously had mental problems." They believe he acted alone. A similar stabbing attack happened in July in Wurzburg, Germany, when police say a Pakistani teen influenced by ISIS propaganda injured five people before being shot dead by officers.4. MarinesThe nude photo scandal involving a Facebook group for Marines has started to blow up . Four branches of the military are now investigating, and more illicit photo exchanges have been found on other private Facebook groups and image message boards. Investigators are trying to figure out how many service members or veterans may be involved.5. Kellyanne ConwayBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Florida agency to hire 25 snake hunters to cull pythons in the EvergladesWhen you see "Florida" at the start of a sentence, it's gonna be a wild ridePlane diverted after passenger freaks out over $12 blanket'Game of Thrones' premiere date and teaser revealed!No. 1 best-selling book on Amazon is just 266 blank pagesA transgender beauty queen's amazing story of triumph"There are a lot of people who will hate, so you have to stay strong ," she says.TODAY'S NUMBER2 a.m.IT'S DAYLIGHT SAVING TIME! Remember to set your clocks FORWARD an hour at 2 a.m. on Sunday, March 12. Yes, you'll lose an hour of sleep. Ugh.AND FINALLY ...Human innovation truly knows no bounds