Story highlights Seven weather-related deaths reported in US and one in CanadaNormalcy trickles back in some areas of the Northeast(CNN) Normalcy was trickling back to some areas of the Northeast after a major winter storm dumped more than 30 inches of snow in the region.Commuters can expect regular train and metro service to resume Thursday. In New York, Gov. Andrew Cuomo lifted the state travel ban. Students will return to public school classrooms in Boston.Airline travel also is getting back to normal. More than 1,200 US flights were canceled Wednesday, but the outlook was looking much better for Thursday, according to Flightaware.comPhotos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Paul Hammer updates the sign in front of his nursery in Mansfield, Connecticut, on Tuesday, March 14. Hide Caption 1 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Cherie Burke contends with blowing snow in Portland, Maine, on March 14. Hide Caption 2 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast A person crosses the street in New York's Times Square on March 14. Hide Caption 3 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast People struggle to walk in Boston on March 14. Hide Caption 4 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Yvonne Mouskourie makes herself comfortable after her morning flight to Florida was canceled in Newark, New Jersey. Hide Caption 5 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Metro North employees clear the snow off the platform at the Greenwich Station in Greenwich, Connecticut, on March 14. Hide Caption 6 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast A person walks past the Washington Monument on March 14. Hide Caption 7 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Traffic lights and a street sign sway in heavy winds in Sea Bright, New Jersey, on March 14. Hide Caption 8 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Taryn Hallweaver and her dog, Willy, walk in Portland, Maine, on March 14. Hide Caption 9 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Jason Roy clears the windshield of a small plow being used to clear snow at City Hall in Worcester, Massachusetts, on March 14. Hide Caption 10 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Workers clear debris after a tree branch fell on a parked car in Baltimore on March 14. Hide Caption 11 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Blaine Webb helps a transit employee shovel out a bus in Spring City, Pennsylvania. Hide Caption 12 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast A vehicle makes its way through a normally busy intersection in Yonkers, New York, on March 14. Hide Caption 13 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Terminal C at Logan International Airport was nearly empty as the snowstorm began to enter the Boston area on March 14. Hide Caption 14 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Waves pound the seawall in Scituate, Massachusetts, on March 14. Hide Caption 15 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast A subway station that services an above-ground train is closed in New York on March 14. Hide Caption 16 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Workers in Washington clear snow on Capitol Hill on March 14. Hide Caption 17 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast A man crosses South Broad Street in Philadelphia on March 14. Hide Caption 18 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Ferries depart the Newport Terminal in Jersey City, New Jersey, on March 14. Hide Caption 19 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast Snow rises up to mailboxes outside Union Dale, Pennsylvania, on March 14. Hide Caption 20 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast The "Fearless Girl" statue faces Wall Street's charging bull sculpture in New York. Hide Caption 21 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast A man looks at train cancellations in Philadelphia on March 14. Hide Caption 22 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast A National Park Service employee shovels snow at the White House on March 14. Hide Caption 23 of 24 Photos: Late winter snowstorm hits Northeast A worker clears the sidewalk in front of Boston's Museum of Science on March 14. Hide Caption 24 of 24The storm led to seven deaths in the United States and one in Canada this week, authorities said -- a toll that started Monday as snow fell in Wisconsin.A roundup of the deaths:Read More