(CNN) Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. Supreme Court2. Electronics ban3. North Korea4. Facebook LiveThis may turn your stomach. A 15-year-old girl in Chicago was sexually assaulted by as many six people -- and the attack was broadcast on Facebook Live. But hold on, it gets worse. At least 40 people were watching this atrocity live, and not a single one of them felt compelled to call the cops. Chicago police are looking for the suspects. The teen girl, who had been reported missing, is back with her family and being treated at a hospital.5. Dakota Access PipelineBurn damage can be seen on an above-ground safety valve at a Dakota Access Pipeline site southeast of Des Moines, Iowa. The Mahaska County Sheriff's Office is investigating.Oil could start flowing in the Dakota Access Pipeline as early as this week. But the company that runs it says the pipeline has been hit with a wave of vandalism . It's hard to get details on what happened because a court-ordered status report on the pipeline is heavily redacted. But police in Iowa and South Dakota report cases in which people have used blowtorches to cut holes in the pipeline. The incidents follow months of heated protests aimed at stopping the pipeline project over concerns for the environment and Native American lands.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Boomin' (heart)beatsBeyonce. ABBA. Justin Timberlake. The start of a dance party? Yes, but also the start of a good playlist for learning CPRBezos' botWe can't decide if Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos looked more like a Transformer or one of the Power Rangers when he put on this giant robot suitWhen you're in a hole, stop diggingRemember the soccer player who thanked his wife and girlfriend after a match? Now he says when he said girlfriend, he was talking about his daughter . Huh?Mass appealLove living near mass transit? Then you should move to China, where in one city you can live with transit right in your apartment building.Discount double check?As people age, they really don't want to give up their driver's licenses. So a police department and funeral home teamed up for an offer they can't refuse.TODAY'S NUMBER55%AND FINALLY ...Llama drama