Story highlights Four Army aviators died in an accident in Washington stateThe crash occurred in a training area at the baseAn investigation is under wayTwo Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans were among four Army aviators killed in a crash of two helicopters at Joint Base Lewis-McChord in Washington state, military officials said Wednesday.The accident, which involved two Army OH-58D Kiowa Warrior observation helicopters, occurred inside a training area at the base at about 8 p.m. P.T. Monday, base officials said.According to a base safety officer, the helicopters were on a routine night training flight.An investigation is under way.The four served with the 16th Combat Aviation Brigade. They were identified Wednesday:• Capt. Anne M. Montgomery, 25, a native of North Dakota. She had served on active duty since August 2008. She was a 2008 graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, and had not deployed overseas. Her awards included the National Defense Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal and the Army Aviator Badge.• Chief Warrant Officer 3 Frank A. Buoniconti, 36, a native of Colorado. Buoniconti had served on active duty since July 1994. He deployed to Iraq twice and Afghanistan twice. Buoniconti's awards included the Distinguished Flying Cross, Meritorious Service Medal, Air Medal (six awards), Army Commendation Medal (nine awards) and the Army Commendation Medal With V Device, the Army Senior Aviator Badge and other decorations.• Chief Warrant Officer 3 Joseph S. Satterfield, 32, a native of Alaska. Satterfield had served on active duty since September 1997. He deployed to Iraq once and to Afghanistan once. Satterfield's awards included the Air Medal (two awards), Army Commendation Medal (two awards), the Aviator Badge and other decorations.• Chief Warrant Officer 2 Lucas Daniel Sigfrid, 32, a native of Alabama. Sigfrid had served on active duty since May 2008, and had not deployed overseas. His awards included the National Defense Service Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal and the Army Aviator Badge.