Editor’s Note: Jeff Graham is the executive director of Jeff Graham is the executive director of Georgia Equality , an organization that works to advance fairness, safety and opportunity for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender communities in Georgia. On December 14, he participates in CNN Dialogues , a panel discussion in Atlanta that will address the question, "Has wider exposure of LGBT issues made the American public more accepting of gay rights?"By Jeff Graham, Special to CNNIn a few short weeks, I will celebrate 23 years of being blessed with a loving and supportive partner. To us, the issue of marriage equality is of great personal and political importance. However, as a couple who calls Georgia home, the promise of applying for a civil marriage license remains a distant dream. In 1996, the Georgia Legislature voted overwhelmingly to outlaw same-sex marriage. In 2004, 76% of our neighbors, family and coworkers voted to change the state constitution to forbid the passage of any future laws allowing for gay and lesbian couples to enter into marriages, civil unions or domestic partnerships.Over the past few years, we have donated money to the fight for marriage equality in other states. We shed tears of sorrow as we watched 28 other states, including California, pass constitutional amendments similar to Georgia’s. We shed tears of joy at the victories allowing gay and lesbian families to seek various levels of legal recognition in 18 states and the District of Columbia, including the recent win to secure gay marriage in New York. Next year, we will do the same as we wait to see how voters in Maine, Minnesota, North Carolina will decide the fate of tens of thousands of loving couples when they vote on amendments of their own.However, as the director of a gay and transgender rights organization, every day I am faced with a more immediate challenge – ensuring that all people are protected against discrimination in the workplace. Although the right to work is a cherished American value, every few weeks, I receive a call from someone who has been fired from their job or denied a promotion because the are gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender. They call seeking advice or a referral to file a complaint. I’m the one who has to break the news to them that they have few options. Their employer may have acted unethically but they acted legally.Read More