Recipes excerpted from "Chef Supreme: Martin Ginsburg," Copyright 2011, by permission of Supreme Court Historical SocietyMartin Ginsburg's recipe for "Simple Meatloaf"Ingredients1 medium-large yellow onion, finely chopped1 Tbs. butter (or just a little more)1 1/2 lbs. ground chuck and round, mixed2/3 lb. ground pork3 Tbs. Worcestershire sauce2 large eggs, lightly beaten4 Tbs. ketchup2 Tbs. Dijon mustard3 Tbs. cracker mealSalt (to taste)Freshly ground pepperExtra ketchup, about 7 tbs.Preparation1. Preheat oven to about 350 degrees.2. Sauté the onion in the butter, stirring from time to time, over medium heat until lightly browned. Set aside to cool.3. Mix well the ground meats and Worcestershire Sauce. Then mix in the cooled onions and all of the other ingredients except the "extra ketchup."4. Place the whole thing in a large loaf pan, smooth the top, and then pour the extra ketchup on the top spreading the cover fairly evenly.5. Bake 1 hour.6. Allow the baked meatloaf to sit in the loaf pan outside the oven about 10 minutes. Pour off and throw away the accumulated liquid, which is about 97% fat.7. Remove from the pan, slice the meatloaf, and serve to the relentless applause of your grandchildren._____________________Martin Ginsburg's recipe for "Dense Chocolate Mousse with Pralines"Ingredients1 lb. high quality semi-sweet or bittersweet chocolate, in pieces3 egg yolks1/2 tsp. instant espresso dissolved in 1 tbs. hot water1/2 cup Grand Marnier1 cup heavy cream, well chilled4 egg whites, at room temperature4 Tbs. praline powderPreparation1. In a double broiler, or even better in the microwave in a large glass bowl, partly melt the chocolate and then stir it smooth with a wire whip. (If you have used the double-broiler, turn the melted chocolate into a glass bowl.) Allow the chocolate to cool.2. Add the egg yolks, one at a time, mixing well. Then add the coffee, then add the Grand Marnier.3. Whip the cream until stiff. Beat the egg whites until stiff. Fold the cream into the egg whites.4. Fold or stir a few tablespoons of the cream-egg white mixture into the chocolate to lighten. Then fold in half the remaining egg white and cream mixture. Then fold in the rest.5. Finally, fold in the 4 tbs. of praline powder. Spoon the mixture into a glass bowl suitable as a serving bowl. Cover tightly with plastic wrap (I prefer Saran) and then with heavy aluminum foil. Freeze at least 3 hours, but overnight is better I think.6. Before serving, place the bowl of mousse in the refrigerator for about 20 minutes so that it will soften somewhat.7. Serve with sweetened whipped cream, or even better I think, with a few tablespoons of Grand Marnier sauce and, instead of whipped cream, a small bowl of excellent vanilla ice cream. If you have extra praline powder, a small sprinkle of it on top of the chocolate mousse is a nice idea.