Story highlights Hinckley was found not guilty by reason of insanity in the 1981 shooting of President ReaganHe is in a government medical hospital in WashingtonHe and his doctors are seeking a longer outplacement arrangementThe court hearing will resume after the holidays, not this weekThe question of whether presidential assailant John Hinckley Jr. has progressed enough in his mental health treatment to live as an outpatient with his mother in Williamsburg, Virginia, will go unanswered until at least early next year.Judge Paul Friedman announced Tuesday the current evidentiary hearing at U.S. District Court in Washington will resume after the holidays, and not this week. The hearing, which last met on Thursday, will pick up on January 23, 2012, and continue if necessary through January 30.There have been five days of hearings stretched over the last couple of weeks.Hinckley, who has attended each day, is in a government medical hospital in Washington. Doctors at St. Elizabeths have proposed a longer outplacement arrangement, from the current 10-day leave to 24 days, to which the government has objected. It's unclear whether Hinckley himself will testify.The legal team from Hinckley and the hospital wrapped its initial case last week. The federal government has yet to begin its presentation. Hinckley's lawyers will have a final rebuttal before closing arguments in the evidentiary hearing.Hinckley's sister and brother have testified they support longer visits with their elderly mother.Kevin Shamblee, a clinical administrator at St. Elizabeths and a member of the patient's treatment team, admitted Hinckley had lied to him about movies he claimed to have watched at a theater in Williamsburg, and that Hinckley had used "questionable judgment" in his relations with some female staff and patients at the facility.But Shamblee also said Hinckley's visits to Williamsburg have helped his overall mental state and that he has been given the freedom to volunteer at a nearby state mental hospital as well as to dine out and go to stores, all without major incident. "In that regard, I see it as a success," said Shamblee.Government attorney Sarah Chasson told the court that longer time away from the hospital has not made Hinckley more sociable, saying he has no friends or nonfamily relationships in Williamsburg. She questioned whether granting eight hours of unsupervised free time in the community -- as the hospital has proposed -- would make a difference. "What's he going to do with the eight hours when he hasn't done anything with the three hours" he currently has, asked Chasson.On March 30, 1981, Hinckley waited for then-President Ronald Reagan to leave a Washington Hotel after a speech. He opened fire and hit Reagan; his press secretary, James Brady; Secret Service agent Timothy McCarthy and Washington police officer Thomas Delahanty.All survived, but Brady suffered a serious head wound that permanently affected his mobility and his speech. Brady and his wife became advocates for gun control.Hinckley, now 56, was found not guilty by reason of insanity.