by Bill Evers, Special to CNNAs the campaign for next year’s presidential election heats up, we can expect an accompanying debate on how to boost the academic achievement of America’s next generation of students. This issue affects our children, our teachers, our pocketbooks, and our schools. Successfully educating our children means giving parents more power over where and how their child is educated, and having policies in place that foster gains in student learning, and bring competitive pressure to bear on sluggish schools. We need to properly educate our next generation of builders, entrepreneurs, inventors, and everyone else. And this necessitates reform. Reforming our education system should allow for increased teacher accountability, greater parental choice, and system transparency. This change is not only long overdue, but we owe it our students and to ourselves.As a progress report of sorts, scholars on the Hoover Institution’s Koret Task Force on K-12 Education have released their list of the best and worst developments in American education this year. In devising this list, we analyzed hundreds of events, laws, programs and studies. Notably, we found that Congress, yet again, is stalling on education, President Barack Obama is engaged in legally-questionable maneuvers, and there have been several setbacks at state and local levels. Such disappointments show that there is considerable room for improvement; nonetheless, the task force found positive developments nationwide.Topping the list as the best development in education in 2011 is re-invigoration of school choice via opportunity scholarships and charter schools, particularly in Indiana, Ohio, and Washington, D.C. For years, opportunity scholarships, also known as vouchers or choice scholarships, had been blocked by special interests, but now have escaped from suspended animation to provide a mechanism for children to transfer out of failing schools and a mechanism that applies competitive pressure that will encourage public schools to improve.Read More