Story highlights Lawsuit claims tainted meatloaf caused elderly couple's deathBob Evans Restaurants says suit is "entirely without merit"The case will be heard in federal court in West Virginia early next yearThe children of an elderly West Virginia couple who passed away months apart in late 2012 and early 2013 are blaming their deaths on a restaurant chain's meatloaf.Mark and Ann Starcher say a tainted meal that their parents shared from a local Bob Evans restaurant in October 2012 made them so "violently ill" that it ultimately led to their deaths, according to a lawsuit they've filed against the Ohio-based chain.According to the complaint, about nine hours after consuming a meal of meatloaf, mashed potatoes and gravy, broccoli and a roll, Virginia Starcher -- who went by "Ginny" -- "fell violently ill" shortly before Harold Starcher "also became violently ill but was able to call 911 for ambulance transport for both."Both were told by emergency room staff at Jackson General Hospital in Ripley, West Virginia, that they had suffered from food poisoning "from consuming the tainted meal from Bob Evans."Photos: Photos: How to keep your food safe Photos: Photos: How to keep your food safe Food safety tips – The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that 48 million people suffer from foodborne illnesses each year in the United States. Stay safe by following these steps outlined by the Food and Drug Administration: Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Photos: How to keep your food safe Food safety tips – Clean properly: Wash all produce thoroughly with water and/or a vinegar solution before eating. Make sure also to wash your hands and everything else that comes into contact with food. This includes kitchen utensils, cutting boards, countertops, tableware and cookware. Wash your hands thoroughly with warm water for at least 20 seconds before touching food, after handling uncooked meat or produce, and after eating. Make sure you also wash your hands between preparing each type of food. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Photos: How to keep your food safe Food safety tips – Separate your food: Keep uncooked food from contaminating other food with dangerous bacteria. Separate raw meat, poultry, fish and produce from one another and other foods. Use separate cutting boards for meat and vegetables, or thoroughly clean the cutting board before using it to prepare a different food. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Photos: How to keep your food safe Food safety tips – Separate your utensils: Be careful not to use the same utensils to prepare different foods without first cleaning the utensils. Finally, don't use the same utensils or dishware for both uncooked and cooked food without cleaning them first. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Photos: How to keep your food safe Food safety tips – Cook food properly: Keep food out of the danger zone by cooking it thoroughly. The danger zone is where germs thrive, between 40 degrees and 140 degrees Fahrenheit. Make sure you cook food to at least 140 degrees to kill harmful microorganisms. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Photos: How to keep your food safe Food safety tips – Check the temperature: Check your food's internal temperature with a food thermometer, but be careful not to contaminate food with a dirty thermometer. Make sure you clean the thermometer as you check each item. A food thermometer is the only way to know if your food is cooked enough. Simply cooking meat until it turns brown may not be an accurate indication of whether your food contains harmful bacteria. If you plan to keep food warm after cooking, make sure the internal temperature doesn't drop below 140 degrees Fahrenheit. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Photos: How to keep your food safe Food safety tips – Chill: Keep foods cold and chill leftovers quickly. Check your refrigerator with a refrigerator/freezer thermometer to make sure the temperature is 40 degrees Fahrenheit or below, and make sure your freezer is 0 degrees or below. If you have leftovers or perishable foods, refrigerate or freeze them within two hours (only one hour if the surrounding temperature is above 90 degrees F). If you thaw frozen food, don't leave the food out at room temperature. Thaw the food in the refrigerator. If you need to thaw food quickly, place the food under cold running water or in the microwave. Then cook the food immediately. Hide Caption 7 of 7The next day, the children allege that their dad -- who went by the nickname "Punk" -- "suffered a stroke after becoming violently ill from consuming the tainted meal from Bob Evans," resulting in both parents being moved into a rehabilitation facility.Neither would return home.About two months later, Ginny, who served in the West Virginia Legislature in the 1980s, died in hospice care. Punk -- who was healthy, active and still operating his business at the time of the Bob Evans meal, according to the suit -- deteriorated rapidly thereafter. The next few months of his life would be spent in an intensive care unit before he, too, passed away.Mark and Ann Starcher want $250,000 for medical expenses from Bob Evans Restaurants, as well as an unspecified amount for the "pain, suffering, emotional distress, mental anguish and the loss of ability to enjoy life" that were caused by their parents' deaths.A spokesman for the restaurant chain, which has 600 locations in 19 states, said that while it's the company's policy not to comment on pending litigation, "we believe this is an appropriate and important exception to the rule.""Bob Evans is committed to serving the safest, highest-quality foods for our guests -- that is our responsibility and our priority," said Scott Taggart, who added that the company "sympathize(s) with this family for the loss of their loved ones." However, Taggart said that the company had done "a thorough review of the alleged claims in this matter, and quite simply, there is no basis to the allegations contained in the complaint and the suit is entirely without merit."The case will be heard in federal court in West Virginia early next year.