Story highlights Bao Bao finds a "hot wire" in her yard, designed to show animals their boundaries16-month-old giant panda cub climbs a tree and is still there, according to a live camZookeepers allow her mother into the yard, where she spends the night pacingBao Bao is "perfectly fine" and will climb down when she's ready, zoo saysBao Bao did a no-no and the shock sent her scrambling up a tree.The giant panda cub at the Smithsonian's National Zoo in Washington, D.C. touched a "hot wire" in her yard, part of a warning system used by the zoo to show animals their boundaries, the zoo said.The shocking experience sent Bao Bao (pronounced bow-BOW) up a tree Tuesday afternoon.The 16-month-old cub climbed to a limb where she felt safe and was still perched there on Wednesday, visible on the zoo's livestream cam.After the gentle shock, zookeepers gave the cub's mother, Mei Xiang, access to the outdoor yard, and she spent the night keeping an eye on Bao Bao, "a likely scenario for a mother panda to stay with her cub in the wild," the zoo said on its Facebook page.Photos: Photos: Famous panda cubs Photos: Photos: Famous panda cubs Famous panda cubs – Panda cub Bao Bao plays in the Smithsonian National Zoological Park on January 6, 2014 in Washington, DC. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Photos: Famous panda cubs Famous panda cubs – Triplet panda cubs rest in an incubator at the Chimelong Safari Park on August 12, 2014. The cubs, which weighed 83 grams, 90 grams, and 122 grams, respectively, at birth, are thought to be the only living panda triplets in the world. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Photos: Famous panda cubs Famous panda cubs – Seven-month-old panda Xing Bao explores his new enclosure at the Zoo Aquarium in Madrid on April 9, 2014. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Photos: Famous panda cubs Famous panda cubs – Six month old giant panda cub Long Long eats bamboo in Chimelong Safari Park in Guangzhou in February 16, 2014. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Photos: Famous panda cubs Famous panda cubs – Researchers place new-born panda cubs on a crib on September 23, 2013 at the Chengdu Giant Panda Breeding Center in China's Sichuan province. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Photos: Famous panda cubs Famous panda cubs – A keeper tucks in a group of panda cubs for a nap at the Chengdu Giant Panda Breeding Center on September 26, 2011. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Photos: Famous panda cubs Famous panda cubs – A carer looks after twin panda cubs in China's Sichuan province on October 24, 2008. Hide Caption 7 of 7JUST WATCHED Pandacam star may help save its species Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pandacam star may help save its species 01:30A zookeeper also spent the night in the panda house "just in case they decided to come inside," the zoo said.The jolt is a part of life for growing animals in the zoo."This is a safe warning system used by zoos for containment," the National Zoo said. "Bao Bao is perfectly fine and like all Zoo animals, she is still learning the boundaries of her habitat."Many people commented about the event on the zoo's Facebook page."What amazed me is the deep concern of Mei Xiang, pacing throughout the yard and sleeping near her little one in the night rain, barely eating inside today, persistently pacing the yard and checking on BB. Her bond with and care for BB is quintessential momma bear. Hope her anxiety and restlessness can be alleviated soon," Heather S. Sonntag wrote.Wrote Chris Nielsen Berg: "Sounds like life with teenagers, who test the limits, stay out all night, and cause their parents no end of worry!"The zoo reassured the world that the cub will return to the ground, sooner or later."The staff are adjusting the pandas' routine today and are confident that Bao Bao will come down when she is ready," the zoo said.The cub's name means "precious treasure" in Mandarin.