Story highlights Washington Post quotes Officer Timothy Zoll describing memorial as "pile of trash"Zoll denied saying that in interview with St. Louis radio stationBut police department says in statement he later acknowledged the remarkHe's on unpaid leave and facing disciplinary actionThe spokesman for the Ferguson, Missouri, police department is on unpaid leave and facing disciplinary action after reportedly describing the memorial honoring Michael Brown as a "pile of trash" in an interview with The Washington Post, the city has announced.The newspaper quoted Officer Timothy Zoll after the memorial -- flowers, stuffed animals and other items in the street near where Brown was killed in a police shooting -- was destroyed on Christmas."I don't know that a crime has occurred," the newspaper quoted him as saying Friday. "But a pile of trash in the middle of the street? The Washington Post is making a call over this?"St. Louis radio station KMOX later reported that Zoll told its reporter he had been misquoted and actually said that the memorial might have been destroyed by a motorist unfamiliar with the area who had mistaken it for a pile of trash.But in its Saturday night statement, the city said "the officer admitted to Department investigators that he did in fact make the remarks attributed to him, and that he misled his superiors when asked about the contents of the interview."It's relatively unusual for government officials to comment on employee disciplinary issues, but anything involving the Michael Brown case is far from routine.Brown died August 9 after being shot by Officer Darren Wilson in a brief encounter that provoked protests across the nation before and after a grand jury declined to bring charges in the case.Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Protesters gather on the steps of the National Portrait Gallery in Washington on Tuesday, November 25. A grand jury's decision not to indict Darren Wilson, a white police officer, in the August shooting death of unarmed black teenager Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, has prompted demonstrations across the country. See photos of the unrest in Ferguson. Hide Caption 1 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. A protester adds wood to a fire burning in Oakland, California, on November 25. Hide Caption 2 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. A woman joins a rally near Los Angeles police headquarters on November 25. Hide Caption 3 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Protesters gather in Eugene, Oregon, on November 25. Hide Caption 4 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Protesters block all lanes of Interstate 75/85 northbound near the Georgia state Capitol in Atlanta on November 25. Hide Caption 5 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Businesses were looted in Oakland on November 25, including a T-Mobile store. Hide Caption 6 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. People march in Newark, New Jersey, on November 25. Hide Caption 7 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Hundreds of demonstrators gather to protest on November 25 in Washington. Hide Caption 8 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Protesters gather outside Los Angeles Police Department headquarters November 25. Hide Caption 9 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Schoolchildren from the Potomac Preparatory Charter School take part in a "die-in" during a protest outside the Office of Police Complaints as part of a planned "28 Hours for Mike Brown" protest November 25 in Washington. Hide Caption 10 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Students rally in support of victims of police brutality at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis on November 25. Hide Caption 11 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Demonstrators gather November 25 outside the Minneapolis Police Department's Third Precinct to protest Monday's announcement. Hide Caption 12 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Protesters march up New York's Seventh Avenue on Monday, November 24. Hide Caption 13 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. A protester in New York scuffles with police during a march toward Times Square on November 24. Hide Caption 14 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Demonstrators gather around a fire in the streets of Oakland, California, on November 24. Hide Caption 15 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Protesters block Interstate 580 in Oakland on November 24. Hide Caption 16 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Seattle police attempt to push back protesters with pepper spray and flash-bang grenades on November 24. Hide Caption 17 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. A Seattle protester pours milk in his eyes after being tear-gassed on November 24. Hide Caption 18 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. A protester in Denver holds up his arms during a moment of silence November 24 at Civic Center Park. Hide Caption 19 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. A crowd in Washington gathers outside the White House on November 24. Hide Caption 20 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Demonstrators march down a street in Washington on November 24. Hide Caption 21 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Community activist Najee Ali speaks in Los Angeles' Leimert Park on November 24. Hide Caption 22 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Protesters in Los Angeles lie down in a major intersection to block traffic on November 24. Hide Caption 23 of 24 Photos: Ferguson protests across U.S. Protesters march near Chicago police headquarters on November 24. Hide Caption 24 of 24The shooting sharply divided Americans between those who sided with Wilson and other police officers as heroes patrolling dangerous streets, and those who argued too many officers bring an overbearing posture and quick-to-shoot mindset to largely African-American communities.Nowhere has that tension been greater than Ferguson, where the largely white police force has faced harsh criticism over poor relations with the city's predominantly black population.City officials have pledged to improve that relationship, and took pains to note police Chief Thomas Jackson kept investigating the statement even after Zoll initially denied making it."The City of Ferguson wants to emphasize that negative remarks about the Michael Brown memorial do not reflect the feelings of the Ferguson Police Department and are in direct contradiction to the efforts of City officials to relocate the memorial to a more secure location," the city said in its statement.