Story highlights Since July, a county clerk has issued marriage licenses to 174 same-sex couplesHe's defied a state law that defines marriage as "between one man and one woman"A health department suit says he "risks causing serious and limitless harm to the public"The judge also denied requests from same-sex couples in the state to intervene in the lawsuitA Pennsylvania judge on Thursday ordered a suburban Philadelphia county clerk to comply with the state's same-sex marriage ban and stop issuing marriage licenses to gay couples.Since July, D. Bruce Hanes, the elected Montgomery County register of wills, has given out 174 licenses to same-sex couples, ignoring a 1996 state law that defines marriage as "between one man and one woman."The state Department of Health sued to stop Hanes, saying he is in "direct defiance" of the ban and "risks causing serious and limitless harm to the public."In his order Thursday, Judge Dan Pellegrini said Hanes must "cease and desist from issuing marriage licenses to same-sex applicants, from accepting the marriage certificates of same-sex couples, and from waiving the mandatory three-day waiting period." He also denied dozens of requests from same-sex couples in the state to intervene in the lawsuit.Hanes said in a statement to CNN Thursday that he is "obviously disappointed" in the ruling and will take a few days to discuss options with his county solicitor, including the possibility of appealing the ruling. Until then, he said, he will comply with the order and stop issuing same-sex marriage licenses to gay couples.Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Andrea Taylor, left, and Sallee Taylor kiss during their wedding in West Hollywood, California, on Monday, July 1, as Sallee Taylor's daughter Grace Meier, right, looks on. The city of West Hollywood offered civil marriage ceremonies for same-sex couples free of charge Monday. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – City officials who will perform same-sex marriages are sworn in before conducting wedding ceremonies in West Hollywood on July 1. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Jose Guerrero, left, and Patrick Rodriguez chat before their wedding ceremony in West Hollywood on July 1. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Same-sex couples kiss on the steps of the the Old Orange County Courthouse in Santa Ana, California, on July 1. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Naomi Hendrix, right, and Rio Waller exchange wedding vows in a small garden across from the Fresno County Clerk's office in California on June 1. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Naomi Hendrix, right, and Rio Waller kiss right after they are pronounced married in Fresno on June 1. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Faith Kassan, left, and her partner, Jennifer Ehrman, kiss before their wedding ceremony in West Hollywood on July 1. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Cynthia Wides, right, and Elizabeth Carey file for a marriage certificate at City Hall in San Francisco on Saturday, June 29. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Diane Meier, left, and Julie Thompson walk down the grand staircase at San Francisco City Hall after getting married on June 29. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Ky Choi, left, and Ashlee Meyer kiss before getting married on June 29. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Sandy Stier, left, exchanges wedding vows with Kris Perry during a ceremony presided over by California Attorney General Kamala Harris at City Hall in San Francisco on Friday, June 28. Stier and Perry were two of the four lead plaintiffs in the U.S. Supreme Court case that overturned California's same-sex marriage ban. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – A couple come out of City Hall after obtaining their marriage license in San Francisco on Friday, June 28. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – A chorus sings for newlyweds at City Hall in San Francisco on June 28. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Jeff Zarillo, left, and Paul Katami, plaintiffs in the California case against Proposition 8, react after they are married by Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa at Los Angeles City Hall on June 28. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Couples fill out license applications as they wait in line at the San Francisco City Hall on June 28. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Stefanie Berks, left, touches her pregnant partner, Daisy Boyd, before their marriage at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau in New York on June 28. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Jen Rainin, left, laughs as her wife, Frances Stevens, holds up their dog, Punum, after they were married in San Fransisco on June 28. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Jeff Foote, left, and Cosgrove Norstadt kiss during their wedding on San Francisco on June 28. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Stefanie Berks, center, and Daisy Boyd, right, view their marriage certificate with a friend after their ceremony in the east chapel at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau on June 28. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Suzanne Hufft, left, and Val Robb exchange vows as they are married at San Francisco City Hall on June 28. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – U.S. Air Force Senior Airman Shyla Smith, right, and Courtney Burdeshaw hold hands in the west chapel during their wedding ceremony at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau on Thursday, June 27. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Smith and Burdeshaw hold hands while waiting to get married at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau on June 27. Hide Caption 22 of 22The National Organization for Marriage applauded the judge's ruling and said it wants Gov. Tom Corbett to have the marriage licenses declared invalid, it said in a statement."This is a victory for marriage. We are pleased that Judge Pellegrini reiterated that Pennsylvania law expressly defines marriage as the union of one man and one woman," said Brian Brown, the group's president.Hanes told CNN in August that he and his solicitor reviewed the state constitution and decided that language about civil rights, happiness and liberty applied to same-sex couples who want to get married."We've either got to change the constitution -- permit discrimination on the basis of sex, permit civil rights to be frustrated -- or change the interpretation of that marriage act or change the marriage act. You can't have it both ways," he said in August.Hanes started issuing the licenses shortly after the U.S. v. Windsor case, in which the U.S. Supreme Court struck down a key part of the federal Defense of Marriage Act, which defined marriage as only between a man and a woman.Hanes endured plenty of criticism from some state lawmakers who said he had "gone rogue" but also got dozens of notes of thanks from supporters, he said.Pennsylvania is considered a conservative state on the issue of same-sex marriage, and it is simultaneously fighting a court battle with the American Civil Liberties Union, which sued the state in July after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled on the Windsor case.The state attorney general, Kathleen Kane, said this year that Pennsylvania's ban on same-sex marriage is "wholly unconstitutional" and that she won't defend the state in the ACLU suit.