Story highlights Granite Mountain Hotshot team fully qualified, staffed and trained, report saysRadio communications were challengingNot since 9/11 had the nation lost so many firefighters in one day.Arizona State Forestry Division commissioned the interagency report.Though an in-depth report released Saturday assigned no blame in the death of 19 elite Arizona firefighters , it did raise some key issues about the day the men died.The firefighters, known as the Granite Mountain Hotshots, died on June 30 fighting wildfires in Arizona. The fire was started by a lightning strike, rapidly spread from one-half acre to several hundred and destroyed more than 100 structures. It took the lives of the 19 hotshots before it was contained.The interagency report , commissioned by the state, detailed what went wrong in the Yarnell Hill Fire and made recommendations to improve the future safety and efficiency of fire crews, both in Arizona and nationwide.The report found the crew was fully qualified, staffed and trained.But it said fire personnel dealt with radio communications issues throughout that day.The report also detailed that during a critical part of the day, there was a 30-minute communication gap between the hotshot team and the command center. The communications issues throughout the day resulted in confusion about the hotshot crew's intentions, movements and location, officials said.Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – A deadly wildfire leaves behind little but a burned-out car and the remains of a house in a Yarnell, Arizona, neighborhood on Wednesday, July 3. The fire started a week ago near Yarnell, apparently because of lightning strikes. Nineteen firefighters were killed Sunday, June 30, battling the blaze northwest of Phoenix. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – An aerial overview shows the devastation in Yarnell on July 3. Crews have begun making progress on the wildfire, which reportedly was 80% contained by Thursday night, July 4. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Smoke from the Yarnell Hill Fire is visible from a distance on a road to Yarnell on Monday, July 1. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Local firefighters embrace July 1 at a Prescott, Arizona, memorial service for the 19 firefighters killed in the Yarnell Hill Fire, northwest of Phoenix. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – A couple embraces during the Prescott memorial service for the fallen fighters on July 1. The elite team members' deaths on Sunday, June 30, marked the deadliest day for firefighters since the 9/11 attacks. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Members of the community give a standing ovation as local firefighters arrive at the July 1 memorial service at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Toby Schultz lays flowers on July 1 at the fence of the fire station in Prescott, Arizona, the home base of 19 firefighters who died in the Yarnell Hill Fire. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Flowers hang on the fence outside the Granite Mountain Hot Shot Crew fire station on July 1. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Homes burn on Sunday, June 30, in Glenn Ilah, Arizona, near Yarnell. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – A home burns in Yarnell, Arizona, on Sunday, June 30. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Prescott, Arizona, Fire Chief Dan Fraijo gives a news conference in Prescott confirming that 19 firefighters died while fighting the Yarnell Hill Fire on June 30. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – A wildfire destroys homes in the Glenn Ilah area near Yarnell on June 30. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – A wildfire burns homes near Yarnell on June 30. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Tanker 910 makes a retardant drop on the Yarnell Hill Fire to help protect the Double Bar A Ranch near Peeples Valley on June 30. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Photos: Arizona wildfire Deadly wildfire burns in Arizona – Firefighters move away from the Yarnell Hill Fire, near the town of Yarnell on June 30. Hide Caption 15 of 15Earlier in the day, the crew had been in one area, but later moved from that point, and officials said they may never know why."We have no indication that Operations or anyone else asked the Granite Mountain IHC to move to a new location but we assume they decided this on their own, believing they could reengage and help defend Yarnell," officials said in the report.The Yarnell Hill fire was discovered on the evening of June 28. Due to the dangerous terrain and the small amount of fire seen at that point, officials said the decision was made not to put fire personnel in the area at that time. The next morning, the fire had grown to several hundred acres, was moving toward the town of Yarnell.Fire retardant was dropped on the area and some firefighters were dispatched, according to the report.The hotshot team was deployed the morning of June 30. The day started with some radios not being programmed with the correct fire tones, which the firefighters were able to work around, officials said. The team then had about a 45-minute hike into the anchor point, which is the spot where they began their efforts.According to the report, the hotshot team received several weather reports from the National Weather Service during the day; the reports warned of approaching storms and changing wind speeds and directions.What we now know, from the report, is that the hotshot crew was on top of a ridge and making its way to a designated safety zone when the winds changed erratically again, causing the fire to split and accelerate dramatically, trapping all 19.The officials who spent more than three months compiling the 116-page report personally delivered it to the families of the hotshot team before releasing it to the media and the public Saturday.Not since September 11, 2001, had the nation lost so many firefighters in one day.Gov. Jan Brewer said the deaths represented "as dark a day as I can remember." A 100-mile procession brought their bodies from the state Capitol, through the community where they perished and back to their hometown of Prescott. Their loss felt especially acutely there as the 19 represented 20% of the city's fire department.Vice President Joe Biden spoke at a memorial service attended by thousands. The Granite Mountain Hotshots realized, Biden said that integrity "is measured by whether you respond to the needs of your neighbors."