Story highlights Putin opinion piece in New York Times takes issue with "American exceptionalism"CNN series looks at origins of the term and whether America is truly No. 1Russian President Vladimir Putin has taken jabs at President Barack Obama and the concept of "American exceptionalism" in a New York Times opinion piece, leaving some people impressed and others outraged.Putin was referring to Obama's speech Tuesday night on Syria, in which he said America had an obligation to act in certain situations."That's what makes us exceptional," Obama said.Last year, as the idea of exceptionalism made headlines during the presidential election, CNN looked at the origins of the term and whether America truly was No. 1. Revisit our series to learn more about the words fueling today's debate:The power of American ExceptionalismWhether or not you think it's true, the idea that America was "chosen" by God to lead the world has shaped history in big ways, from the American Revolution to Election 2012. Whether or not you think it's true, the idea that America was "chosen" by God to lead the world has shaped history in big ways, from the American Revolution to Election 2012.JUST WATCHED W.H.: America is exceptional Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH W.H.: America is exceptional 01:44Exceptional? Not by the numbersAmericans may call it "the greatest country in the world," but the United States isn't No. 1 in many areas. What can we learn from those who are ahead of us? Americans may call it "the greatest country in the world," but the United States isn't No. 1 in many areas. What can we learn from those who are ahead of us?Photos: Faces of citizenshipCitizens of 54 countries became naturalized U.S. citizens in a recent ceremony. We asked them about their stories and what they think makes America exceptional. Citizens of 54 countries became naturalized U.S. citizens in a recent ceremony. We asked them about their stories and what they think makes America exceptional.Uniting America on idealsDavid Gergen and Michael Zuckerman say candidates don't have to prove their view of American exceptionalism is better, they need to unite liberty and egalitarianism. David Gergen and Michael Zuckerman say candidates don't have to prove their view of American exceptionalism is better, they need to unite liberty and egalitarianism.American by choiceThe atmosphere is hushed and quiet as about 150 people take their seats. As big days go, this is one of the biggest. All these people are about to become citizens of the United States. The atmosphere is hushed and quiet as about 150 people take their seats. As big days go, this is one of the biggest. All these people are about to become citizens of the United States.Nationality, identity and the pledgeCNN's Moni Basu describes how she became an American citizen, and the ways that moment has affected her life. CNN's Moni Basu describes how she became an American citizen, and the ways that moment has affected her life.Where to find exceptional AmericaAmerican historians share where they enjoy exploring the history of the United States. Here are some of their favorite spots. American historians share where they enjoy exploring the history of the United States. Here are some of their favorite spots.