Story highlights Additional runners will be in 2014 Boston MarathonMany were unable to complete race this yearDaffodils meant as symbol of rebirth after bombingsThe Boston Athletic Association is providing an additional 9,000 spots in the 2014 Boston Marathon to accommodate runners who were unable to finish last year's race because of the terror attack bombings.Registration --- which opens at 10 a.m. Monday -- will operate under the same process used to qualify runners in the past, giving priority to the fastest qualifiers, according to Jack Fleming, a spokesman for the B.A.A.The 5,000 runners who were unable to finish the 2013 marathon are already pre-registered for the race, according to Fleming.Isabelle Goosen, who participated in the 2013 Boston Marathon and was half a mile away from completing the race before the attack, told CNN that she is excited to finally finish the race she started last year."I'll definitely get a sense of closure," Goosen said. "It sounds almost selfish to look at everything that happened in this way but just the fact that I couldn't finish tore me a part for a while. Spending four months training for it and spending all of my college career wanting to do it. I was really upset."Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man removes a sign hanging from the Lennox Hotel along Boylston Street after the street reopened to the public for the first time since the Boston Marathon bombings in Boston on Wednesday, April 24. The city is trying to return to normal less than a week after two bombs exploded near the finish line of the Boston Marathon, shocking the nation and leaving the city on edge. See all photography relating to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man washes a bus stop window on Boylston Street on April 24. Hide Caption 2 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Alec Mikels cleans tables at Whiskey's Smokehouse on Boylston Street on Tuesday, April 23 in Boston. Hide Caption 3 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A cleaner power washes Boylston Street near the blast site after the FBI handed the area back to the city of Boston on Monday, April 22, following the week-long investigation. Hide Caption 4 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – The Boston Fire Department Hazardous Materials team cleans the first blast site near the finish line of the Boston Marathon on April 22. Hide Caption 5 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Cleaning material is sprayed on April 22 on the outlined blast seat on the sidewalk of Boylston Street at the site of the marathon bombings. Hide Caption 6 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A member of the Boston Fire Department Hazardous Materials team cleans the first blast site with a pressure washer on April 22. Hide Caption 7 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Brad Marchand of the Boston Bruins embraces one of the first responders from the Boston Marathon attack after the game against the Florida Panthers at the TD Garden on Sunday, April 21, in Boston. Hide Caption 8 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – David Ortiz of the Boston Red Sox speaks to the crowd during a ceremony held in honor of the bombing victims before a baseball game against the Kansas City Royals at Fenway Park in Boston, on Saturday, April 20. Hide Caption 9 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Neil Diamond sings "Sweet Caroline," a song traditionally played at Boston Red Sox home games, during a game against the Kansas City Royals on April 20. Hide Caption 10 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Members of law enforcement react during ceremonies in honor of the Marathon bombing victims before Saturday's game. Hide Caption 11 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Photos: Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A woman sheds a tear during pregame ceremonies Saturday. Hide Caption 12 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Photos: Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man holds an American flag at ceremonies before the Saturday game in Boston. Hide Caption 13 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Hundreds of people pour onto Hemingway Street in the Fenway neighborhood to celebrate after the announcement that the second Boston Marathon bombing suspect had been captured on Friday, April 19. Hide Caption 14 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Women cheer police as they exit Franklin Street on Friday, April 19, in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 15 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Officers from the Department of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives relax Friday after the capture in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 16 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A woman gives a Boston police officer a hug and other officers are thanked during a celebration in the Boston Common on April 19. Hide Caption 17 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A member of the North Metro SWAT team pumps his fist while leaving the scene near Franklin Street on April 19. Hide Caption 18 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Around 200 people celebrate on Hemingway Street in the Fenway neighborhood after the capture of the second suspect on April 19. Hide Caption 19 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – People wave U.S. flags as police drive down the street on April 19. Hide Caption 20 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A photograph of Martin Richard, one of the victims of the Boston Marathon bombing, was placed on the plexiglass by a fan following the hockey game between the Buffalo Sabres and the New York Rangers on April 19 at the First Niagara Center in Buffalo, New York. Hide Caption 21 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man waves a U.S. flag in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 22 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Local residents cheer to news that police have captured the surviving suspect Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 23 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – President Barack Obama arrives in the White House briefing room to make a statement late April 19 about the capture of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. "We've closed an important chapter in this tragedy," he said. Hide Caption 24 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A SWAT team member is followed by reporters and a celebrating crowd on April 19 after the successful operation. Hide Caption 25 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A police officer adjusts his hat while various law enforcement agencies descend on the area around Franklin Street on April 19. Hide Caption 26 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Spectators celebrate as law enforcement officers leave the scene on April 19 near Franklin Street. Hide Caption 27 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – People gather at the scene near Franklin Street in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 28 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man claps next to a police vehicle in the Watertown neighborhood on April 19. Hide Caption 29 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Onlookers applaud first responders departing the scene at the end of the manhunt on April 19. Hide Caption 30 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Police officers and SWAT team members exult after the successful operation to capture suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev on April 19. Hide Caption 31 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Boston SWAT team members are surrounded by spectators and the media on April 19. Hide Caption 32 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Residents clap after the capture of the second of two suspects wanted in the Boston Marathon bombings on April 19. See all photography relating to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 33 of 33Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is detained by officers on Friday, April 19. After a car chase and shootout with police, one suspect in the Boston Marathon bombing, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, was shot and killed by police early Friday, and his brother and second suspect, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, was taken into custody Friday night. The two men are suspects in the bombings at the Boston Marathon on April 15, that killed three people and wounded at least 170. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Special imaging techniques employed by Massachusetts State Police reveal Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding in a boat in a backyard in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Dzhokhar Tsarnaev gets out of the boat he was hiding in outside of a home in Watertown, as seen in a surveillance video still. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – An ambulance carries Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, from the scene after he was apprehended in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police SWAT teams leave the area after apprehending the suspect in a yard where he was hiding in a dry-docked boat on April 19. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Residents flee from an area where a suspect was hiding on Franklin Street on April 19. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT team members run toward a police assault on a house as gunfire erupts on April 19. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – People react while watching police respond to reported gunfire on April 19. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT team members move down residential streets as they perform door-to-door searches in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A U.S. military helicopter lands behind Watertown Mall as law enforcement agencies continue to search for the 19-year-old bombing suspect on Friday. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams prepare to enter a home as they continue the door-to-door search. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – U.S. President Barack Obama meets with members of his national security team in the Situation Room of the White House on April 19 to discuss developments in the Boston bombings investigation. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT team members line a residential street in Watertown, Massachusetts, as the manhunt continues on Friday. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A man watches from the window of a home as a SWAT team member keeps watch on Friday, in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police to continue to the door-to-door search on Francis Street in Watertown, Massachusetts, on Friday. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Law enforcement officers place themselves in an overhead position on Arsenal Street as the search continues on April 19. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Law enforcement officers react to what was initially thought to be a threatening suspect on Arsenal Street on April 19. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A police SWAT team searches houses on April 19 for the second suspect. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams searches homes along Winsor Avenue in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Massachusetts state trooper watches other troopers line up at Watertown Mall as the manhunt for the second suspect continues in Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police continue the ongoing manhunt for the second suspect on Williow Avenue in Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Watertown police vehicle with bullet holes in its body and a shattered windshield is towed out of the search area on April 19 in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Massachusetts State Police officer checks the bag of a cyclist amid heightened security on Friday in Watertown. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Katia Costa looks out her window as police continue the manhunt on Nichols Avenue in Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Ruslan Tsarni, uncle of the Boston terror suspects, told CNN affiliate WBZ that Tamerlan "got what he deserved" in an interview outside his home in Montgomery Village, Maryland, on Friday. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A woman is questioned by Cambridge police and other law enforcement agencies Friday near the home of the second suspect in Cambridge, Massachusetts. A Massachusetts Institute of Technology campus police officer was shot and killed late Thursday night at the school's campus in Cambridge. A short time later, police reported exchanging gunfire with alleged carjackers in nearby Watertown. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams move into position at the intersection of Nichols and Melendy avenues in Watertown, Massachusetts, on Friday. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams gather at the intersection of Nichols and Melendy avenues in Watertown while searching for the remaining suspect on Friday. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Onlookers take pictures while SWAT team members look around on Friday. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick, left, speaks to the media at a shopping mall on the perimeter of a locked-down area during the search on Friday. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Metro SWAT members hang off the back of a truck during the search on Friday. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT officers check a door with guns ready on Friday. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Officers patrol Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers – The aftermath of the shootout that police said involved the two suspects in Watertown early Friday. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police with guns drawn search for a suspect on Friday in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A police officer runs with his gun drawn on Friday. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston Police gather in the parking lot in front of a Best Buy store near the Watertown Mall on Friday. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis speaks during a media briefing in the parking lot of the Watertown Mall on Friday. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston police gather in front of a Best Buy on Friday. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police stop cars at School and Walnut streets on Friday. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Massachusetts state trooper checks a building along Mount Auburn Street as police search neighborhoods in Watertown. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police search neighborhoods yard by yard on Friday. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police convene on School and Walnut streets on Friday. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A police officer talks to a driver at a checkpoint in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police officers keep a man on the ground in Watertown on Friday. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 45 of 45Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – Runners in the men's elite race of the 2013 Virgin London Marathon observe 30 seconds of silence in honor of the victims of the Boston Marathon bombings before the start of the race in London on Sunday, April 21. People worldwide expressed their condolences after at least three people were killed and scores wounded in two explosions Monday near the finish line of the Boston Marathon. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – A competitor at the London Marathon inscribed the word "Boston" into his hair at the London Marathon on April 21. Hide Caption 2 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – A man carries a U.S. flag as he runs with other marathoners during the London Marathon on April 21. Hide Caption 3 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – White balloons are released in remembrance of the Boston Marathon bombings victims before the commencement of the 5K San Isidro Run in Lima, Peru, on April 21. Hide Caption 4 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – FC Barcelona's players link up during a minute of silence in memory of those killed in the Boston Marathon bombings before the Spanish league football match against Levante UD in Barcelona on Saturday, April 20. Hide Caption 5 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – Runners from the Boston 4:09 group celebrate as they make their way to the finish line at the Salt Lake City Marathon on Friday. Hide Caption 6 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – Bryant Jensen, wearing a shirt honoring the Boston bombing victims, wins the Salt Lake City Marathon on Friday. Hide Caption 7 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – Vice President Joe Biden speaks to reporters about the bombings at the Boston Marathon in Washington on Tuesday, April 16. Hide Caption 8 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – French soldiers patrol the Eiffel Tower in Paris on April 16. Security in public areas and events was stepped up after the bombings. Hide Caption 9 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – Arsenal and Everton soccer teams observe a moment of silence for the Hillsborough disaster anniversary and the victims of the Boston terror blasts during the Barclays Premier League on April 16, in London, England. In 1989 nearly 100 people were killed and several hundred injured due to overcrowding at a match at the Hillsborough Stadium in Sheffield, England. Hide Caption 10 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – A man puts flowers near the U.S. Embassy in Moscow on Tuesday. Hide Caption 11 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – During a committee session in Tokyo on Tuesday, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said that police have stepped up security at key domestic facilities after the Boston explosions. Hide Caption 12 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – Kosovo's foreign minister, Enver Hoxhaj, expressed sympathy for the victims of the Boston explosions following talks with German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle in Berlin on Tuesday. Hide Caption 13 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – Members of the U.S. Army National Guard Joint Task Force Empire Shield patrol Grand Central Terminal in New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 14 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – A message asking passengers to report suspicious activity flashes on an electronic sign inside a New York City subway station on Tuesday. Hide Caption 15 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – Speaker of the House John Boehner makes remarks after a House GOP caucus meeting on Capitol Hill on Tuesday. Hide Caption 16 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – Commuter passengers move through New York's Penn Station on April 16. Hide Caption 17 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick speaks at a press conference about the bombings on Tuesday. From left, Sen. Elizabeth Warren, FBI Special Agent in charge of Boston Richard Deslauriers, and Boston Mayor Thomas Menino, seated at front left. Hide Caption 18 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – A police K-9 unit dog stands by as train passengers pass through Penn Station on Tuesday in New York. Hide Caption 19 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – The bombings dominate the front pages of newspapers at a newsstand on Newbury Street in Boston. Hide Caption 20 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – Members of the Calgary Flames observe a moment of silence before the start of their National Hockey League game against the Minnesota Wild in Calgary, Alberta, on Monday, April 15. Hide Caption 21 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – President Barack Obama makes a statement Monday evening. Hide Caption 22 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – Police officers stand in front of the White House on Monday after the Secret Service heightened security. Hide Caption 23 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – A New York police officer inspects a man's bag in Grand Central Terminal in Manhattan on Monday. Hide Caption 24 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – A police officer mans his post at New York's Times Square on Monday. Hide Caption 25 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – Cars stop at a checkpoint at Los Angeles International Airport on Monday. Hide Caption 26 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – A bomb squad vehicle is parked at the Los Angeles International Airport departures terminal on Monday. Hide Caption 27 of 28 Photos: Boston bombings: The world reacts Boston bombings: The world reacts – A police officer and his dog guard a Long Island Rail Road train at the station in Hicksville, New York, on Monday. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 28 of 28Another addition to next year's race will be the planting of 100,000 daffodils along the marathon's entire route, according to Diane Valle, who began the group Marathon Daffodils.Marathon Daffodils, which has collaborated with several organizations and volunteer groups, plans to begin planting the flowers in October, according to Valle."We hope the bright yellow daffodil, which is the same color as the Boston Marathon logo, will lift people's spirits," Valle told CNN. "We hope the communal act of planting together will strengthen Boston Strong and will add a bit of hope and rebirth."The April 15, 2013, double bombings near the finish line killed three people and injured at least 264.The B.A.A. and Fleming acknowledge that the upcoming marathon is going to be considerably larger than previous years: "We know that since April 15 the demand in the running community and those around Boston has increased. Interest is high."The planning process for the 2014 marathon is currently ongoing, and updates to public safety are under way, according to Fleming.The 118th Boston Marathon will take place on April 21, 2014.