Story highlights Colorado must race against the coming winter to fix roads, governor saysSeven now confirmed dead, three presumed dead in Colorado floodsProperty losses may approach $2 billion, insurance firm saysState inspectors report 2 "notable" oil spillsA seventh person has been confirmed dead, and the number of presumed dead is now up to three after last week's flooding in Colorado, authorities reported Thursday.The state Office of Emergency Management added a new confirmed fatality in Boulder County to the list Thursday afternoon, spokeswoman Micki Trost said. And in Larimer County, a 46-year-old man from the town of Drake whose home had been washed away was reclassified as presumed dead, said Nick Christensen, executive officer of the county Sheriff's Office.Two other people in Larimer County -- both women, ages 60 and 80 -- were already presumed dead after their homes were swept away in the flash floods that ravaged Colorado's northern Front Range. Another 139 people remain unaccounted for in Larimer County, a figure reduced from nearly 200 on Wednesday, Christensen said.Officials say most of those unaccounted for are expected to be alive and well, but have failed to check in with authorities to let them know.The mountains north of Denver saw more than nine inches of rain on September 12 -- leading to flash floods that turned picturesque canyons into funnels that deluged towns downstream and left hundreds stranded in the mountains above. Nearly 1,200 people had been airlifted out of the mountains by Thursday, and Christensen said nearly 200 more have chosen to stay in their homes.Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Railroad tracks washed from their path by floodwaters are seen in Longmont on Thursday, September 19, 2013. Massive flooding has left at least six people dead and damaged thousands of homes around the state. Hide Caption 1 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Piles of items destroyed by flooding line both sides of a street in Longmont on September 19. Hide Caption 2 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – A woman disposes of ruined items from her home in Longmont on Wednesday, September 18. Hide Caption 3 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – David Soleta, right, and family friend John Rice remove destroyed and contaminated walls on September 18 from Soleta's father-in-law's home, which was heavily damaged by floodwaters that swept through Longmont. Hide Caption 4 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – From left, siblings Elizabeth, 13, Jonathan, 9, Aaron, 11, and Kitty Dipert, 6, wash mud from the clothing of family friends from church on September 18 in Longmont, Colorado. Hide Caption 5 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – An abandoned car sits on a destroyed road along the South Platte River near Greeley, Colorado, on Tuesday, September 17. Hide Caption 6 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – A Blackhawk helicopter flies over a canyon during a search around Boulder, Colorado, on September 17. Hide Caption 7 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Two women are hoisted into a Blackhawk helicopter during a search and rescue mission near Jamestown, Colorado, on September 17. Hide Caption 8 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Two women smile and laugh after being rescued by a helicopter crew on September 17 near Jamestown, Colorado. Hide Caption 9 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Members of the FEMA Urban Search and Rescue Nebraska Task Force 1 use probes to test for water depth while crossing floodwaters looking for missing people near Longmont, Colorado, on September 17. Stranded flood victims are being rescued by military helicopters and vehicles. Hide Caption 10 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – A cow stands in floodwater near Kersey, Colorado, on September 17. Hide Caption 11 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – From left, Dale Reeves, Kathryn Reeves and Trent Mayes assist a family member by moving belongings from a flooded home in Evans, Colorado, on September 17. Hide Caption 12 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – A gas well is surrounded by floodwater near Kersey, Colorado, on September 17. Hide Caption 13 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – A woman steps over a puddle onto the foundation of a shed that was moved by floodwaters in Hygiene, Colorado, on Monday, September 16. Hide Caption 14 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – People wade through floodwater in Greeley, Colorado, on September 16. Hide Caption 15 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Jerrie McBride checks in with authorities after being rescued by helicopter from the Big Elk Meadows area in Boulder, Colorado, on September 16. Hide Caption 16 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Local residents, from left, Levi Wolfe, Miranda Woodard, Tyler Sadar, and Genevieve Marquez help salvage and clean property after days of flooding in Hygeine, Colorado, on September 16. Hide Caption 17 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Floodwaters surround a home in Jamestown, Colorado, on Sunday, September 15. Hide Caption 18 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Chickens take refuge on the roof of their coop to escape floodwater in the backyard of a home in Longmont, Colorado, on September 15. Hide Caption 19 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Railroad tracks are washed out in Longmont, Colorado, on September 15. Hide Caption 20 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Water pours out of a parking lot, overwhelming a culvert heading under the roadway, in Estes Park, Colorado, on September 15. Hide Caption 21 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – A road crew works on a stretch of highway washed away by flooding along the South Platte River near Greeley, Colorado, on Saturday, September 14. Hide Caption 22 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Parked vehicles sit partially submerged near Greeley, Colorado, on September 14. Hide Caption 23 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Eli and Noe Sura play in the mud around their Boulder, Colorado, home on September 14. Hide Caption 24 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – A National Guardsman stands at South Main and Missouri streets in Longmont, Colorado, on September 14. Hide Caption 25 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Floodwaters swamp Longmont, Colorado, on September 14. Hide Caption 26 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Dave Jackson closes a mailbox with his foot after delivering the mail to a home surrounded by water from the flooded Cheyenne Creek in Colorado Springs, Colorado, on Friday, September 13. Hide Caption 27 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Rescue personnel search for flood victims near Fort Collins, Colorado, on September 13. Hide Caption 28 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Chris Rodes helps Fred Rob salvage a friend's belongings after floods left homes and infrastructure in shambles in Lyons, Colorado, on September 13. Hide Caption 29 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – During a break in the rain, a woman walks over a footbridge past the raging Boulder Creek in Boulder on September 13. Boulder County is one of the hardest-hit areas. Hide Caption 30 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Suzanne Sophocles hugs her dogs after they were rescued from her flooded home on September 13 in Boulder. Thousands of people stranded by the flood waters in Colorado were finally able to come down by trucks and helicopters, two days after seemingly endless rain turned normally scenic rivers and creeks into coffee-colored rapids that wrecked scores of roads and wiped out neighborhoods. Hide Caption 31 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Residents look at the flood damage along Topaz Street in Boulder on September 13. Hide Caption 32 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Will Pitner gets rescued by emergency workers and neighbor Jeff Writer on September 13 after he spent a night trapped outside above his home at the base of Boulder Canyon. Hide Caption 33 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Water rushes where a bridge collapsed in a flash flood in Lyons, on September 13. Hide Caption 34 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – A man runs through the floodwaters in a yard in Boulder on September 13. Hide Caption 35 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Topaz Street resident Jake Koplen stands at the edge of his driveway after the street in front of his home was washed away in Boulder on September 13. Hide Caption 36 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Siblings Patrick Tinsley and Mary Kerns head to Boulder from the mountain community of Magnolia, Colorado, on September 13. Hide Caption 37 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Samantha Kinzig of Longmont, Colorado, and her 5-year-old daughter, Isabel, take a closer look at the damaged bridge on Weld County Road 1 on September 13. Hide Caption 38 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Highway 7 is completely blown out from the South St. Vrain River as a torrent of raging water rips through it about 12 miles west of Lyons on Thursday, September 12. Hide Caption 39 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – A woman looks at the flooded Boulder Creek on September 12. Hide Caption 40 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Three vehicles crashed into a creek after the road washed out from beneath them in Broomfield, Colorado, on September 12. Three people were rescued. Hide Caption 41 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Nicky Toor, 15, floats on the flooded lawn of North Boulder Park in Boulder on September 12. Hide Caption 42 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Joey Schusler rides through flooded Canyon Boulevard in Boulder, on September 12. Hide Caption 43 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Residents view a road washed out by a torrent of water after overnight flash flooding near Left Hand Canyon, Colorado, on September 12. Hide Caption 44 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – A city worker talks on his phone while surveying high water levels from Boulder Creek after flash flooding in downtown Boulder, Colorado, on September 12. Hide Caption 45 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – Flash flood waters rush over a walking path in downtown Boulder on September 12. Hide Caption 46 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – A police officer blocks off a road in Boulder on September 12. Hide Caption 47 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – A man walks past the swelled Boulder Creek in Boulder on September 12. Hide Caption 48 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – People stand at the edge of floodwaters in Boulder on September 12. Hide Caption 49 of 50 Photos: Deadly floods hit Colorado Deadly floods hit Colorado – A dive rescue team moves toward floodwaters in Boulder on September 12. Hide Caption 50 of 50JUST WATCHED Rescue dogs help save flood victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rescue dogs help save flood victims 01:57JUST WATCHED Colorado reels from flood devastation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Colorado reels from flood devastation 04:14In addition to the deaths, nearly 18,000 homes have been damaged statewide. Gov. John Hickenlooper told reporters that about 200 miles of state highways washed out by the storms will need to be fixed, along with perhaps "several times more" miles of local roads.Those roads are not only in hard-hit Boulder and Larimer counties but in farm communities northeast of Denver, where the runoff from the storms was carried downstream by the South Platte River. And he added, "It's clear we're in a race against the onset of winter.""Critical roads needed to bring in crops that are about to go to harvest are completely broken apart," Hickenlooper said. "This has to be every bit as critical a priority as the roads connecting people with their communities and homes in the canyons. Irrigation, in large measure, has been washed away along the Platte."The disaster may end up costing homeowners, businesses and local governments nearly $2 billion , according to the insurance consulting firm Eqecat -- and a high percentage of the losses will not be covered by insurance. Tom Larsen, senior vice president of of Eqecat, said that because very many of the homes damaged by the flooding are not in flood plains, the number of people with federal flood coverage is very low.Colorado is also an oil-producing state, and the disaster has raised concerns that hydraulic fracturing, or "fracking," fluids used in oil and gas wells may have been swept up in the floodwaters and washed into the environment.Colorado's Oil and Gas Association, the industry's trade association, said no fracking operations were underway when the floods hit -- meaning "no fracking fluids, no chemicals associated with fracking, nor equipment were on sites at the time of the flooding."But state inspectors reported 10 oil spills as of Thursday, including two the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission called "notable" -- a 125-barrel (3,900-gallon) leak from a storage tank south of Milliken, near the South Platte; and a 323-barrel (13,500 gallon) leak from another storage tank near Firestone, on the St. Vrain River."In both cases, it appears the oil left the site in floodwaters," the commission reported. It said the spills were "promptly reported" by the tanks' owners, Anadarko Petroleum, and Anadarko said it was working with state and federal officials "to clean up the releases to the greatest extent possible."And the state agency noted that oil is typically a small portion of the contaminants associated with a flood: "Those include very large volumes (millions of gallons) of raw, municipal sewage and other hazards associated with households, agriculture, business and industry."