Story highlights Three people are indicted in a June slaying in MassachusettsThey include the fiancee of a fallen NFL starAaron Hernandez is charged in the death of Odin Lloyd, who was shot in JuneFormer NFL star Aaron Hernandez's fiancee, cousin and an associate have been indicted in connection with the investigation into the June 17 killing of semipro football player Odin Lloyd, Massachusetts.Carlos Ortiz, 27, of Bristol, Connecticut, was indicted on a single count of accessory to murder after the fact in connection with Lloyd's death, Bristol County District Attorney Sam Sutter said in a written statement Friday. Ortiz will be arraigned October 18 in Fall River Superior Court.Hernandez has pleaded not guilty to first-degree murder in Lloyd's death.The former New England Patriots tight end's fiancee, Shayanna Jenkins, 24, is accused of a single count of perjury. She was indicted last week and will be arraigned October 15.His cousin, Tanya Singleton, 37, also of Bristol, was indicted on a charge of "conspiracy to commit accessory after the fact." She pleaded guilty Monday and is being held without bail, according to a court statement.Singleton, who was already being held on a previous indictment for contempt of court by allegedly refusing to testify before a grand jury, saw both of the cases against her combined, and is scheduled to appear October 24 for a pretrial hearing.In search warrant affidavits obtained by CNN in August, authorities alleged that Jenkins and Singleton "have all made overt attempts to hide evidence, render assistance for suspect to elude law enforcement, and to hinder and mislead this investigation."Photos: Athletes charged with murder Photos: Athletes charged with murder Convicted murderer and former NFL star Aaron Hernandez was found hanged in his Massachusetts prison cell Wednesday morning, officials said, just days after his acquittal in a separate double murder case Hide Caption 1 of 9 Photos: Athletes charged with murder South African sprinter Oscar Pistorius was charged with murdering his girlfriend, model Reeva Steenkamp, in February 2013. Pistorius, the first double-amputee runner to compete in the Olympics, was convicted of murder and sentenced to six years in prison. Hide Caption 2 of 9 Photos: Athletes charged with murder Lawrence Phillips, a former NFL running back who was awaiting trial on charges of killing his prison cellmate last year, died in January after being found unresponsive in his prison cell, the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation said. The death of Phillips, 40, was being investigated as a suicide, the department said. Phillips was sent to a California prison in 2008 after being convicted of domestic violence, false imprisonment and vehicle theft charges. While serving a 31-year sentence, authorities say, he killed his cellmate in April 2015. A trial was anticipated in Kern County, California. Hide Caption 3 of 9 Photos: Athletes charged with murder Rae Carruth , who was a wide receiver for the Carolina Panthers, became the first active NFL player ever charged with first-degree murder. His pregnant girlfriend, Cherica Adams, was killed in December 1999, and prosecutors said he arranged for her to be killed in a drive-by shooting. Carruth was eventually convicted of conspiring in her murder, and he is now in prison. The unborn child, a boy, survived. Hide Caption 4 of 9 Photos: Athletes charged with murder Middleweight boxer Rubin Carter , known as "Hurricane" in the ring, served 18 years in prison for a triple homicide in a bar in 1966. A federal judge overturned his sentence and that of his alleged accomplice, John Artis, in 1985, ruling that the conviction was based on "racial stereotypes, fears and prejudices." Hide Caption 5 of 9 Photos: Athletes charged with murder Groundbreaking skateboarder Mark "Gator" Rogowski confessed to beating and raping Jessica Bergsten, then choking her to death and burying her in the desert in 1991. Bergsten was a friend of Rogowski's former girlfriend, and Rogowski testified that he acted out of misplaced anger against his ex. Rogowski was denied parole in 2011 and will not be eligible for parole again until 2018. Hide Caption 6 of 9 Photos: Athletes charged with murder Baltimore Ravens linebacker Ray Lewis and two others were charged with murder in 2000 after a fight in a popular Atlanta bar district left two men dead on the street. The murder charges against Lewis were dropped after he pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of obstruction of justice and testified against his friends; they were later acquitted. Lewis announced his retirement before helping the Ravens win the Super Bowl in 2013. Hide Caption 7 of 9 Photos: Athletes charged with murder Bruno Fernandes das Dores de Souza , a former goalie for the Brazilian soccer club Flamengo, was convicted in March 2013 for the murder of his ex-girlfriend. He was sentenced to 22 years and three months for the murder of Eliza Samudio, who disappeared in 2010. Souza, his current girlfriend and his ex-wife were among nine people charged with torturing and murdering Samudio, who had been trying to prove Souza had fathered her son. Hide Caption 8 of 9 Photos: Athletes charged with murder Although O.J. Simpson was found not guilty, the former football star's 1995 murder trial has kept him a household name. Simpson was acquitted in the death of his wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and Ron Goldman. In October 2008, Simpson was sentenced to 33 years in prison on multiple counts, including armed robbery and kidnapping, in connection with a robbery at a Las Vegas hotel in 2007. Hide Caption 9 of 9News of the indictments came after a bail reduction hearing Thursday for another co-defendant, Ernest Wallace, in Fall River, Massachusetts, revealed new details in the murder case against Hernandez.Bristol County prosecutors, according to spokesman Gregg Miliote, told a judge that Hernandez was the only one who got out of a car with Lloyd in a deserted industrial park before Lloyd was allegedly shot multiple times, execution-style, by Hernandez. Lloyd's body was found about a mile from Hernandez's home in North Attleboro.That's different from an earlier scenario laid out by investigators.At first, Ortiz allegedly told investigators that Wallace and Hernandez got out of the car with Lloyd before shots were fired.Since then, prosecutors say, Ortiz changed his story."Initially, Mr. Ortiz's statement was Mr. Wallace got out of the car and now his statement is that Mr. Wallace stayed in the car," Sutter said outside of court Thursday.Asked by a reporter whether he was concerned about the fact that Ortiz had changed his story, he replied: "Not at all."Ortiz's lawyer, John Connors, declined comment on why Ortiz may have changed his account."Almost every case I've ever been involved in, the story changes during interrogation," Connors said. "When a professional interrogation takes place, at the end of it sometimes you have trouble remembering your own name."Connors stopped short of using the word credible to describe his client."He's a young guy who got caught up in a situation, and when all this came about, he was frightened and confused, as you can imagine anyone would be," he said. "I believe he's an honest guy.""My client will enter a not guilty plea" at an upcoming arraignment, Connors told CNN on Friday. The attorney said he will ask for a low bail because Ortiz has "limited means" to post it.Sources tell CNN that Ortiz is cooperating with authorities.At the Thursday hearing, a judge refused to reduce Wallace's $500,000 bail, despite attorney David Meier's insistence that his client has "every intention" and "every incentive to appear at every court hearing."In court, the district attorney's office also disclosed that Hernandez allegedly made several phone calls to Wallace after Lloyd's body was discovered."Mr. Hernandez ... immediately makes cell phone telephone calls to Mr. Wallace upon police arriving at his house," Assistant District Attorney Patrick Bomberg told the judge.Hernandez was not arrested until 10 days after the slaying.Wallace turned himself in to police in Miramar, Florida, at his family's home more than a week later after taking a bus to Florida from Georgia. Wallace also has pleaded not guilty to being an accessory after the fact to murder.During Thursday's bail hearing, prosecutors told a judge that Singleton drove Wallace to Georgia and, when her car broke down, bought him a bus ticket to go the rest of the way.