Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A Hotshot crew member rests near a controlled burn at Horseshoe Meadows as crews continue to fight the Rim Fire near Yosemite National Park in California on Wednesday, September 4. The massive wildfire has burned over 280,000 acres and is now 80% contained, according to a state fire spokesman. Hide Caption 1 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – California Highway 120 is cleared of debris as crews continue to fight the Rim Fire near Yosemite on September 4. Hide Caption 2 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A member of the Bureau of Land Management's Silver State Hotshot crew walks through a burn operation on the southern flank of the Rim Fire on Friday, August 30. Hide Caption 3 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – BLM Silver State Hotshot crew members perform burn operations on the southern flank of the fire on August 30. Hide Caption 4 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A firefighter takes a break from battling the Rim Fire near Groveland, California, on August 28. Hide Caption 5 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Firefighters from Sacramento Metro burn around an old cabin in Ackerson Meadow near Yosemite National Park on August 28. Hide Caption 6 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Smoke from the Rim Fire drifts past cattle in a field near Yosemite National Park on August 28. Hide Caption 7 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Firefighter Russell Mitchell monitors the situation during the Rim Fire near Yosemite National Park on Tuesday, August 27. Hide Caption 8 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A videographer records the flames burning through trees as the Rim Fire menaces Yosemite National Park on August 27. Hide Caption 9 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Firetrucks drive through heavy smoke generated by the Rim Fire near Yosemite on August 27. Hide Caption 10 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Sacramento Metropolitan firefighter John Graf monitors the Rim Fire line near Camp Mather, California, on Monday, August 26. Hide Caption 11 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A firefighter stands on top of a fire truck at a campground destroyed by the Rim Fire near Yosemite National Park on August 26. The massive wildfire grew during the week and became the 5th largest in state history, state fire authorities said. Hide Caption 12 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Flames from the Rim Fire destroy trees on Sunday, August 25, near Groveland, California. The fire had consumed nearly 219,000 acres as of Saturday, August 31. Hide Caption 13 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service firefighter Corey Adams sits on a tree stump as he monitors the Rim Fire near Groveland on August 25. Hide Caption 14 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Fierce flames from the Rim Fire burn near Groveland, not far from Yosemite National Park. Hide Caption 15 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – U.S. Forest Service firefighters take a break from battling the Rim Fire at Camp Mather on August 25. Hide Caption 16 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Trees burned by the Rim Fire stand charred on August 25 in Yosemite National Park. Hide Caption 17 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A burned car sits on the side of the road near Groveland on August 25. Hide Caption 18 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A Cal Fire firefighter monitors the Rim Fire as it burns through a stand of trees near Groveland on August 25. Hide Caption 19 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A firefighter douses flames of the Rim Fire in Groveland, near Yosemite National Park, on Saturday, August 24. Hide Caption 20 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – The Rim Fire burns just outside Yosemite on August 24. A top priority is stopping the fire from spreading further into the national park. Hide Caption 21 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Smoke and flames move along a ridge just outside Yosemite National Park on August 24. Hide Caption 22 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – El Dorado Hills firefighters work to douse a hotspot in Yosemite National Park on August 24. Nearly 5,000 firefighters are attempting to bring the fast-moving fire under control. Hide Caption 23 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A firefighter douses a spot fire, as he battles the Rim Fire near Yosemite National Park in California. Hide Caption 24 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Firefighters move in to douse a spot fire on August 24. Hide Caption 25 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A cow walks through a section of forest that was scorched by the Rim Fire outside of Camp Mather on August 24, near Groveland, California. Hide Caption 26 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A truck sits scorched outside of Yosemite National Park on August 24. Hide Caption 27 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Some 2,600 of firefighters were battling the out-of-control Rim Fire on August 24. Hide Caption 28 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Smoke and flame blot out the horizon as the Rim Fire approaches Yosemite Lake near Groveland, California on Friday, August 23. Hide Caption 29 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Charred siding is all that remains of a building consumed by the fire. Hide Caption 30 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Flames eat up trees as the fire continues to burn out of control on August 23. Hide Caption 31 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A coyote walks across U.S. Highway 120, shut down due to the fire, near Groveland, California, on August 23. Hide Caption 32 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Smoke from the Rim Fire is seen near Hardin Flat outside Yosemite National Park on August 23. Hide Caption 33 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A firefighting crew puts out a spot fire that jumped a fire line in Yosemite National Park on August 23. Hide Caption 34 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Giant plumes of smoke rise up from the Rim Fire near the border of Yosemite National Park on August 23. Hide Caption 35 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A firefighter from Cosumnes Fire Department monitors a back fire while battling the Rim Fire on August 22, in Groveland, California. Hide Caption 36 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – The Rim Fire has burned 105,620 acres, spreading from Stanislaus National Forest to part of Yosemite, Forest Service on Friday, August 23, spokesman Bjorn Fredrickson said. Hide Caption 37 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – An air tanker drops fire retardant on a ridge ahead of the advancing Rim Fire on August 22, in Groveland, California. The Rim Fire continues to burn out of control and has entered Yosemite National Park. Hide Caption 38 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A firefighter from the Colorado-based South Arkansas Fire District carries a hose as he monitors the Rim Fire on August 22, in Groveland, California. Hide Caption 39 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Los Angeles County firefighters hike in on a fire line on the Rim Fire near Groveland, California, on August 22. Hide Caption 40 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A Tuolumne County sheriff's deputy looks at an incident map of the Rim Fire on August 22, in Groveland, California. Hide Caption 41 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – The Rim Fire burns close to Groveland Ranger Station near Yosemite National Park, California, on August 22. Hide Caption 42 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – A Marin County firefighter works to put out a spot fire that jumped a fire line on the Rim Fire near Groveland, California, August 22. Hide Caption 43 of 45Photos: Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park Rim Fire in Yosemite National Park – Sunlight filters through smoke in a grove of trees burned by the Rim Fire on August 22, in Groveland, California. Hide Caption 44 of 45