Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – Jovan Belcher had advanced from an undrafted free agent linebacker to NFL starter for the Kansas City Chiefs and played in every game since 2009. On Saturday, December 1, 2012, the 25-year-old star allegedly killed his girlfriend, then drove to the Chiefs' practice facility and took his own life. After the tragedy, teammate Tony Moeaki tweeted, "One of everyone's favorite teammates including one of mine." Here's a look at his career with the Chiefs and tragic end: Hide Caption 1 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – The Kansas City Chiefs kneel and pray before a game against the Carolina Panthers on Sunday, December 2, 2012 at Arrowhead Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri. Hide Caption 2 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – Natalie Samson wears the No. 59 jersey, which was Jovan Belcher's number, as she stands for a moment of silence. Hide Caption 3 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – Players from the Kansas City Chiefs and Carolina Panthers gather at midfield for a prayer after the Chiefs' 27-21 win. Hide Caption 4 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – A young fan holds a condolences sign for the Kansas City Chiefs prior to the team's game against the Carolina Panthers. Hide Caption 5 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – Before their game against the Carolina Pathers, the Kansas City Chiefs pause for a moment of silence. Hide Caption 6 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – After Belcher and his girlfriend's deaths, flags wave in the wind outside of The University of Kansas Hospital Training Complex used by the Kansas City Chiefs next to Arrowhead Stadium, on Saturday, December 1, 2012. Hide Caption 7 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – No. 59 Belcher battles guard Clint Boling of the Cincinnati Bengals during the game at Arrowhead Stadium on November 18, 2012 in Kansas City. Hide Caption 8 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – Belcher stretches before the game against the Oakland Raiders at Arrowhead Stadium on September 20, 2009, in Kansas City. Hide Caption 9 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – The residence of Kasandra Perkins, Belcher's girlfriend, is seen on December 1, 2012, in Kansas City. Hide Caption 10 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – Belcher during an NFL game against the Atlanta Falcons on September 9, 2012. Hide Caption 11 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – Belcher brings down Buffalo Bills running back C.J. Spiller in the third quarter at Arrowhead Stadium on October 31, 2010. Hide Caption 12 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – Belcher cools off from temperatures over 100 degrees during a training camp practice on the campus of Missouri Western State University in St. Joseph, Missouri, on August 1, 2011. Hide Caption 13 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – The linebacker after a game against the Pittsburgh Steelers at Heinz Field on November 12, 2012 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The Steelers defeated the Chiefs 16-13. Hide Caption 14 of 16Photos: Photos: Jovan Belcher, Kansas City Chiefs 'One of everyone's favorite teammates' – Belcher watches from the sidelines during his final game against the Denver Broncos at Arrowhead Stadium on November 25, 2012. Hide Caption 15 of 16