Story highlights "I never saw her without a smile," a mother at the school says of Dawn HochsprungHochsprung became Sandy Hook Elementary's principal in 2010She implemented new initiatives and touted news on Twitter"Little kids know when someone cares about them, and that was her," a friend saysPrincipal Dawn Lafferty Hochsprung just entered a Ph.D. program. She led a school district's strategic planning panel. She won a national school grant. She could be "a tough lady in the right sort of sense," a friend said.Among it all, she found time to smile and exuded memorable enthusiasm.The longtime educator's career seemed to be peaking when she became principal two years ago of Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, which has 525 pupils from kindergarten to fourth grade.On Friday, Hochsprung, 47, was fatally shot inside her school in a massacre that killed five other adults and 20 students. The shooter killed himself; his mother was found dead in a Newtown house, said a law enforcement source with detailed knowledge of the investigation.Hochsprung was an affable but serious leader, recalled Tom Prunty, a friend whose niece goes to Sandy Hook and was uninjured Friday.Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Children in Newtown, Connecticut, return to school on December 18, 2012, four days after the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School. Hide Caption 1 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut State Police officers search outside St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church in Newtown, Connecticut, on Tuesday, December 16, after a threat prompted authorities to evacuate the building. Investigators found nothing to substantiate the reported threat, a police official said, declining to provide additional details. The church held Sunday services following the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown. Hide Caption 2 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut State Police officers walk out of St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church after the Newtown church received a threat December 16. Hide Caption 3 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Firefighters attach black bunting to a fire truck as a memorial at the fire station down the street from the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, on Saturday, December 15. Hide Caption 4 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut Chief Medical Examiner H. Wayne Carver II talks to the media about the elementary school shooting during a press conference at Treadwell Memorial Park on December 15. Hide Caption 5 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Zulma Sein is hugged by a family member outside of the entrance to the Sandy Hook School on Saturday. Hide Caption 6 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Police officers keep guard at the entrance to the street leading to the Sandy Hook Elementary School on Saturday, December 15. Hide Caption 7 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut State Police Lt. Paul Vance addresses the press on December 15. Hide Caption 8 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Police officers stand at the entrance to the street leading to the Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 15. Hide Caption 9 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Corinne McLaughlin, a student at the University of Hartford, bows her head during a candlelight vigil at Hartford, Connecticut's Bushnell Park on Friday, December 14, honoring the students and teachers who died at Sandy Hook Elementary School in nearby Newtown earlier in the day. Hide Caption 10 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Distraught people leave the fire station after hearing news of their loved ones from officials on Friday. Hide Caption 11 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Emergency workers stand in front of the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown. Hide Caption 12 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A child and her mother leave a staging area outside Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, on December 14. Hide Caption 13 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Members of the media converge on December 14 in front of an apartment at 1313 Grand Street in Hoboken, New Jersey. The apartment is believed to be connected to the Connecticut elementary school shooting. Hide Caption 14 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Faisal Ali, right, of Colorado Springs, Colorado, joins other people outside the White House on December 14 to participate in a candlelight vigil to remember the victims of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting. Hide Caption 15 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut State Police spokesman Lt. J. Paul Vance, center, briefs the media on the elementary school shootings during a press conference at Treadwell Memorial Park on December 14 in Newtown. Hide Caption 16 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People weep and embrace near Sandy Hook Elementary School on Friday, December 14. Hide Caption 17 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A woman leans on a man as she weeps near Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 18 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – President Barack Obama wipes a tear as he speaks about the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School during a press briefing at the White House on December 14. Hide Caption 19 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A woman weeps near the site of a shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 20 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A woman weeps near Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 21 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People comfort each other near Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 22 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A man takes in the scene near Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 23 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A young girl is given a blanket after being evacuated from Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 24 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – State police personnel lead children from the school. Hide Caption 25 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Children wait outside Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, after the shooting. Hide Caption 26 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A boy weeps at Reed Intermediate School after getting news of the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 27 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – FBI SWAT team members walk along Dickinson Drive near Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 28 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – An aerial view of Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut on December 14. Hide Caption 29 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut State Troopers arrive on the scene outside Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 30 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A Connecticut State Police officer runs with a shotgun at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown on December 14. Hide Caption 31 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Police patrol the streets around Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 32 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People try to deal with the shock of the attack outside Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 33 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut State Police secure the scene of the shooting on December 14. Hide Caption 34 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People embrace outside Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 35 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A man escorts his son away from Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 36 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People take in the news outside Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 37 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People line up to enter Newtown Methodist Church near the the scene of the shooting on December 14. Hide Caption 38 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A woman speaks with a Connecticut state trooper outside Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 39 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – The streets around Sandy Hook Elementary are packed with first responders and other vehicles. Hide Caption 40 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A view of the scene at Sandy Hook Elementary School after the shooting. Hide Caption 41 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A young boy is comforted outside Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 42 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People embrace each other on December 14. Hide Caption 43 of 43JUST WATCHED 3rd grader describes shooting from class Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 3rd grader describes shooting from class 01:44JUST WATCHED Mom: Teacher saved son from bullets Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mom: Teacher saved son from bullets 01:11JUST WATCHED Gov. Malloy: Tragedy of unspeakable terms Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Gov. Malloy: Tragedy of unspeakable terms 01:34"She was really nice and very fun, but she was also very much a tough lady in the right sort of sense," Prunty said. "She was the kind of person you'd want to be educating your kids. And the kids loved her."Even little kids know when someone cares about them, and that was her," he said.Hochsprung majored in special education for her bachelor's and master's degrees in the 1990s, and she rose through the ranks, working in elementary, middle and high schools in Connecticut's small communities.The Connecticut Board of Education appointed Hochsprung as Sandy Hook's principal on June 9, 2010. She came to Newtown with 12 years of administrative experience, including as a principal in Regional School District 14 serving the Connecticut communities of Bethlehem and Danbury, the Newtown Bee reported.At home in Woodbury, Connecticut, Hochsprung was busy raising two daughters and three stepdaughters.She also dove into her work, quickly asserting her leadership and implementing a number of initiatives affecting the school's nearly 700 students from about 500 families.One of them was overseeing the installation of a new security system requiring every visitor to ring the front entrance's doorbell after the doors locked at 9:30 a.m. If they were buzzed into the front office, parents would be asked for photo identification.Hochsprung also volunteered to be co-chairman of a strategic planning commission for the school district, said Scott Clayton, former assistant principal at Newtown High School, who left this year to become a principal in another district.The commission post is a weighty, important job, said Clayton, who worked with Hochsprung on the panel."She was extremely passionate. And she was especially dedicated to and knowledgeable about curriculum," Clayton said. "This was a deep loss for the community."Last summer, Hochsprung was one of 15 educators accepted into the doctorate program at Esteves School of Education at the Sage Colleges in New York, the college said.She was the first person from Connecticut accepted into the 27-month program, said Dean Lori V. Quigley.Hochsprung made the biggest impression of the group with her smile and enthusiasm, Quigley said."She was truly a caring administrator," Quigley said, adding Hochsprung was proud to represent her school.In 2011, Hochsprung won a school grant called Sharing the Dream from the National Association of Elementary School Principals. The grant creates global awareness in schools and international learning communities.She proudly posted notes and photos on her Twitter account about her school's activities."Setting up for the Sandy Hook nonfiction book preview for staff ... Common Core, here we come!" she wrote on Thursday, her most recent tweet. A photo depicted several children's books, including "Alligator or Crocodile? How Do You Know?"Another photo shows a choir of boys and girls dressed in white shirts and black pants or skirts being led by the music teacher. The audience was all students."Sandy Hook students enjoy the rehearsal for our 4th grade winter concert - a talented group led by Maryrose Kristopik!" Hochsprung tweeted Wednesday. Kristopik is listed as music teacher on the school's website.On her principal's page of the school website, Hochsprung emphasizes the school's "rich history of establishing high expectations and sustaining strong academic performance.""Our Responsive Classroom approach focuses on the benefits of a climate of kindness and respect where all community members feel accepted, important, and secure," Hochsprung wrote.In her two years at Sandy Hook, the principal came across as a "very well-liked, compassionate woman" who was "extremely helpful," said Aimee Seaver, a mother of a first grader.Hochsprung brought positive energy, sincerity and a strong work ethic to the job -- qualities that will be sorely missed, added Seaver."I never saw her without a smile," Seaver said. "I believe she had the children's best intentions (in mind) all the time. She was always looking out for them."