Story highlights Whitney Houston's death rocks the music industry on the eve of its biggest nightHer death, at age 48, was the final chapter of the storied career that began in the 1980sHouston's career stalled as her drug use and marriage to Bobby Brown made for tabloid fodderShe was working to turn her career around with a star turn in the upcoming film, "Sparkle"The news broke on the eve of Grammy Awards, the music industry's biggest night: The woman with the pitch-perfect voice who once reigned as the queen of pop at the awards show had died.Whitney Houston was found dead Saturday by her bodyguard on the fourth floor of an upscale Beverly Hills hotel where only hours later she was to attend a pre-Grammy bash hosted by her longtime mentor, Clive Davis.Her death, at age 48, was the final chapter of a storied career that began with the nurturing by superstar cousin Dionne Warwick, soared in the 1980s and 1990s with one record-setting achievement after another, stalled as her drug use and marriage to Bobby Brown made for tabloid fodder and was on the rebound with a highly anticipated star turn."You're going to remember where you were when you heard the news. It's that significant. She was undoubtedly one of the greatest superstars of all time," music producer Simon Cowell said."One of the greatest voices in our lifetime we're likely ever to hear. And to hear this news, it really, really, really upset me."Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston On February 11, 2012, singer Whitney Houston was found dead in a bathtub in a Beverly Hills, California, hotel. The Los Angeles County coroner later ruled that the 48-year-old's death was an accidental drowning with the "effects of atherosclerotic heart disease and cocaine use" as contributing factors. Houston won six Grammys and sold 170 million albums, singles and videos over her career. Click through to see images from her life. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston poses with an American Music Award in 1986. Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston poses with her mother, Cissy Houston, in March 1987. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston strikes a glamorous pose for a photo in 1987. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston sings the national anthem before Super Bowl XXV in January 1991. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston performs in July 1991. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston dances with Kevin Costner in a scene from the 1992 film "The Bodyguard." Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston appears with her husband at the time, singer Bobby Brown, at the Soul Train Music Awards in March 1995. Houston received the Sammy Davis Jr. Award for entertainer of the year. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston stars in the 1996 movie "The Preacher's Wife." Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston performs during an AmFar Benefit Concert in December 1998. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston appears at the Grammy Awards in February 2000. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston performs at the MTV Music Video Awards in 2000. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston performs during a Michael Jackson anniversary concert in 2001. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston poses with her cousin Dionne Warwick and producer Clive Davis during the 15th annual Ella Awards in September 2006. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston arrives at a Beverly Hills hotel for a charity function in October 2006. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston performs during the German TV show "Let's Make a Bet" in 2009. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston performs at the American Music Awards in 2009, where she won the International Favorite Artist award. Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston performs at the 02 Arena in London in April 2010. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: Remembering Whitney Houston Houston and her daughter, Bobbi Kristina Brown, arrive at a gala event honoring David Geffen in February 2011. Hide Caption 19 of 19Houston's voice, once described by The New York Times as "peerless," influenced and inspired a new generation of singers, from Mariah Carey to Christina Aguilera, and garnered a legion of fans."Her notes soared to places most singers dream of reaching," Aguilera said.Houston seemed destined for stardom almost from the very beginning.Born on August 9, 1963, in Newark, New Jersey, to gospel great Cissy Houston, cousin to both Dionne and Dee Dee Warwick and goddaughter to Aretha Franklin, Houston's upbringing was the embodiment of musical greatness.JUST WATCHED Winans: We'll bury Whitney with dignity Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Winans: We'll bury Whitney with dignity 03:25JUST WATCHED Whitney Houston's ups and downs Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Whitney Houston's ups and downs 02:56JUST WATCHED Houston's childhood church mourns Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Houston's childhood church mourns 02:23She honed her vocal skills from a young age, singing in the church choir and taking the stage occasionally with her mother. As a teenager, she sang backup for Chaka Khan on "I'm Every Woman," a song Houston would re-record in 1992 and that would go on to become one of her biggest hits.As the story goes, Clive Davis spotted Houston in 1983 in a New York nightclub performing and signed her on the spot.Houston released her debut album, "Whitney Houston," in February 1985 to wide acclaim. Rolling Stone magazine called her "one of the most exciting new voices in years."With the release of the album, her commanding voice combined with a natural beauty and a clean-cut image made her an instant star.A generation danced their way through the 1980s to a string of her hits, including the poppy "How Will I Know," "Saving All My Love For You," "I Wanna Dance With Somebody" and "The Greatest Love Of All."But it was in the 1990s that she shot into the superstar stratosphere with two songs that showcased her stunning octave range and her maturity.On January 27, 1991, while the United States was at war in the Persian Gulf, Houston performed "The Star Spangled Banner" at Super Bowl XXV to a record 79 million viewers.During a time when the country seemed divided by the war, her searing, heartfelt performance seemed to unite a nation at least for a few minutes. Her rendition -- the gold standard by which all performances of the national anthem are judged -- was released as a single and reached the Top 20 on the U.S. Hot 100 Billboard.Houston's version was re-released in 2001 following the September 11 terrorist attacks, and proceeds from the sales were donated to charity.That was followed up by her cover of Dolly Parton's "I Will Always Love You" recorded for the movie "The Bodyguard," in which she also made her acting debut.JUST WATCHED Message to Bobbi Kristina: Be true to you Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Message to Bobbi Kristina: Be true to you 01:19JUST WATCHED Whitney Houston seemed 'in good spirits' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Whitney Houston seemed 'in good spirits' 02:01JUST WATCHED Grammy plans after Houston's death Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Grammy plans after Houston's death 00:45JUST WATCHED Lionel Richie: Houston was iconic Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lionel Richie: Houston was iconic 04:15While the movie received mostly poor reviews, the song went onto to sell 10 million singles, winning Grammy's record of the year and best female pop vocal. The soundtrack was named album of the year."I will always be grateful and in awe of the wonderful performance she did on my song and I can truly say from the bottom of my heart, 'Whitney, I will always love you. You will be missed,'" Parton said.But by the time the movie opened, Houston's clean-cut pop image had begun to tarnish with her marriage to R&B bad boy Bobby Brown. The two met in 1989 and married three years later.Their relationship became tabloid fodder, with every misstep chronicled and the couple's relationship a subject of constant speculation. Brown's notorious hard-partying led him to several run-ins with the law and stints in jail.While Houston managed to maintain a successful music and movie career through the end of the 1990s, starring in "The Preacher's Wife" and "Waiting To Exhale," her behavior turned increasingly erratic amid reports of heavy drug use.By the 2000s, her career was in free fall as her album sales dropped off and her voice began to show signs of wear.The rumors were further fueled by her gaunt appearance and crass behavior on the 2005 short-lived Bravo reality show "Being Bobby Brown," which she later said in an interview she only did to try to save her marriage. The couple, who had a daughter together, divorced in 2007.Brown performed at a "New Edition" concert Saturday night in South Haven, Mississippi."The atmosphere felt bittersweet," said iReporter Moshiu Knox, who attended the concert with his wife. "Bobby was crying during his performance and at one point had to walk off stage. ... The crowd was emotional and tears were flowing all over the arena."Video of the concert shows Brown asking the audience to pray for the couple's daughter. "If you find the time, can you say a prayer for me because I'm going to need it," he says.In an infamous interview in 2002 with ABC's Diane Sawyer, Houston admitted to using drugs but denied the use of crack."Crack is wack," she said, quoting a line taken from Keith Haring mural painted in 1986.It was during the same interview, she told Sawyer: "The biggest devil is me. I'm either my best friend or my worst enemy."Houston bounced in and out of drug rehab twice, declaring herself drug-free during a 2009 interview with Oprah Winfrey, though an Australian tour that same year was fraught with reviews that she sounded "croaky" and, at times, appeared disoriented.Recently, Houston was working to turn around her career -- and image -- with a star turn in the upcoming movie "Sparkle,'' the remake of a 1976 film that is said to be loosely inspired by the Supremes.The night Houston died she was to be a guest of honor at Davis' annual pre-Grammy bash."She loved music and she loved this night that celebrated music," Davis told party-goers."Her family asked that we carry on."She would have loved that, too.