Photos: 13 Halloween health hazards 13 of the scariest health hazards of Halloween – Warning: This unlucky number of frightful dangers may spook you (for your own good) this Halloween.Hide Caption 1 of 14Photos: 13 Halloween health hazards 13. A deadly snack for Fido or Fluffy – Halloween candy can be deadly for your dog or cat. Anything that's sugar-free, or contains raisins or chocolate can quickly cause seizures, even organ failure. Hide Caption 2 of 14Photos: 13 Halloween health hazards 12. Careful with candy – Fun-size Halloween candies have more calories than you might think. If you eat one fun-size M&M regular and peanut, a Twix, Almond Joy, Milky Way, Snicker, Butterfinger, Baby Ruth, Skittles and 30 candy corns, you've got a whopping 923 calories to burn off. Hide Caption 3 of 14Photos: 13 Halloween health hazards 11. There goes the dental work – As the American Dental Association says: "Be picky if it's sticky." Caramels, taffy, gummies and other chewy candies stick to the teeth longer, contributing to cavities, but they are also notorious for pulling out fillings and crowns.On the opposite end, hard candies can also be bad for your teeth. They also last longer in the mouth, contributing to decay, and you can break a tooth if you chomp down too hard. Hide Caption 4 of 14Photos: 13 Halloween health hazards 10. Beware of face paint – Check how your skin will react to face paint before you slather your face with it. Applying a small bit on your arm a day or two before could save a lot of scratching, swelling, redness and embarrassment if you end up being allergic, the US Food and Drug Administration advises. Hide Caption 5 of 14Photos: 13 Halloween health hazards 9. Out-of-this-world eyes – Many of the decorative contacts sold online and in gas stations and beauty parlors are not FDA approved. They could easily contain harmful colorants used to create tints and patterns on the surface of the lens. The lens-making process can also leave uneven, scratchy surfaces that might not be visible but could scratch your cornea. Hide Caption 6 of 14Photos: 13 Halloween health hazards 8. Pokes in the eye – Just like sticks, pointed props such as swords, spears and wands can poke out the eyes of excited children (or adults) gathered too close. Considering that falls account for nearly a third of all Halloween-related injuries, that pointy object could just as easily end up in your child's eye (or yours) as well. Hide Caption 7 of 14Photos: 13 Halloween health hazards 7. Falling down on the job – In addition to tripping, falling off a ladder or other height ties for secnd most common injury during Halloween, says the US Consumer Product Safety Commission. Most occur while putting up or taking down Halloween decorations, most likely because of poor ladder safety skills. Hide Caption 8 of 14Photos: 13 Halloween health hazards 6. Trick or trip – Tripping or falling ties for second place prize for most common Halloween injury, says the US Consumer Product Safety Commission. Getting tangled in the long legs of ill-fitting costumes is a key reason; costume masks can also be part of the problem. Be sure whatever you wear or put on your kids will allow full range of eyesight and has been altered to prevent tripping before you head out the door. Hide Caption 9 of 14Photos: 13 Halloween health hazards 5. Revenge of the jack-o'-lantern – Pumpkin carving takes the lead each year over other Halloween injuries, according to the Consumer Product Safety Commission. Safety experts suggest putting the sharp kitchen knives aside and using only the small pumpkin carving tools that come in kits, which are designed to minimize injuries. Hide Caption 10 of 14Photos: 13 Halloween health hazards 4. Fire hazards – Fire hazards abound on Halloween, as people use sandbag candles and fiery jack-o'-lanterns to decorate their homes and walkways. By law, all costumes, wigs, masks and other accessories sold in the US are required to be made of flame resistant materials. But if you DIY, be sure to use flame resistant cloth -- nylon and polyester are good choices. Hide Caption 11 of 14Photos: 13 Halloween health hazards 3. Demon allergies – One in 13 children under the age of 18 in the US has food allergies. Some can be deadly. Chances are high one of those kids will visit your house for a treat. To be really safe, you can join the Teal Pumpkin Project, which suggests having non-food treats on hand, such as glow sticks, bubbles, stickers or markers. Hang a teal pumpkin outside your home so kids with allergies will know you are allergy-safe. Hide Caption 12 of 14Photos: 13 Halloween health hazards 2. Killer buzz – Pedestrian deaths are high on Halloween. Guess who's mostly to blame? That's right, drivers who drank or partied too hardy. Remember you don't have to "feel" drunk or stoned to be impaired. As the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration says: "Buzzed driving is drunk driving." Hide Caption 13 of 14