If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Now might be a good time to get your chocolate fix. Come 2019, Hershey prices are going on a sugar high. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Package bombsAll eyes are on Florida this morning, as the investigation continues into those 10 bombs sent to Trump critics and CNN. Several of the packages went through a postal facility in Opa-locka, Florida, two law enforcement officials said. One of the big mysteries officials are trying to unravel deals with postmarks , which a lot of the packages don't have. A postmark indicates when and from where mail was sent and could help investigators focus their search. Here's a breakdown of everything we've learned this week about this domestic terror incident that stunned the nation.2. Migrant caravanPresident Trump is thinking about using a travel ban-like executive order to keep that migrant caravan that's working its way through Mexico out of the US. The proposal, according to the San Francisco Chronicle , would block certain asylum-seekers at the Mexican border and represent a dramatic escalation of enforcement. This plan is just in the formative stages, though, and a government official familiar with the working version told the Chronicle it would probably face legal challenges. Meantime, another US-bound immigrant caravan plans to leave next week from El Salvador. Among the travelers likely are pregnant women, who as immigrants face particular stresses in America.3. Drug pricesPresident Trump unveiled a plan to lower drug prices that would radically change how Medicare pays for certain pricey prescriptions. Under this proposal, Medicare would set the reimbursement level for certain drugs administered in doctors' offices and hospital outpatient centers based on their cost in other countries, which typically pay far less. Trump has made lowering drug prices a central promise of his presidency, but this plan, which comes just in time for the midterms, is almost certain to hit big resistance from drug companies, doctors, hospitals and some patient advocacy groups.JUST WATCHED Here's why drug prices are so high Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's why drug prices are so high 01:454. North and South KoreaThe "scariest place on Earth" just got a little less scary. North and South Korea removed all weapons and ammunition from the Joint Security Area, the spot between the two Koreas where soldiers from the North and South stand face to face, guns at the ready. It's hoped the highly symbolic move will spur other peaceful gestures between the two countries. South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un have vowed to turn the entire DMZ that divides North and South into a "peace zone."JUST WATCHED Koreas removing weapons from DMZ village Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Koreas removing weapons from DMZ village 02:325. WeatherIf you live on the East Coast, get ready for a wet weekend . The remnants of Hurricane Willa will move up the coast over the next few days and turn into the first nor'easter of the year. New York and Philly could see heavy rain and strong winds tonight through tomorrow. Some snow is expected in parts of upstate New York and New England, but most of the Northeast will be spared that because it's just a little too warm.JUST WATCHED What is a nor'easter? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is a nor'easter? 01:03BREAKFAST BROWSEMake a moveLike Maine? Like paying off your student loans ? Then, officials in the Pine Tree State have an offer you're going to love.Not all heroes wear capesHe shined shoes twice a week for 30 years -- and raised more than $200,000 for sick kids in the process.Washed awayIf you had plans to visit Hawaii's East Island, you might need to change them. It pretty much doesn't exist anymoreBox drinkCheck out the metal box that can produce gallons of fresh drinking water , right out of thin air.The robots are comingMeet the cyborg dancer who can detect earthquakes, thanks to the implants in her feet.JUST WATCHED Moon Ribas: The cyborg who can detect earthquakes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Moon Ribas: The cyborg who can detect earthquakes 01:15TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeNine million passengers' personal information was stolen after a data breach on which airline?A. Cathay PacificB. LufthansaC. Frontier AirlinesD. Ethiopian AirlinesPlay "Total Recall: The CNN news quiz" to see if you're right. And don't forget, you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."TODAY'S NUMBER401The number of points the Dow gained yesterday as the stock market, which dropped more than 600 points a day earlier, rides the financial roller coasterJUST WATCHED What kills a bull market? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What kills a bull market? 01:42HAPPENING LATERGDP releaseHow much did America's economy grow in the third quarter? We'll find out this morning when the latest gross domestic product number comes out. Most economists predict it will be a strong number but not as good as the 4.2% growth we saw in the second quarter.IT'S THE WEEKEND, BABYPhotos: Teen TV Shows "Riverdale" – Season 3 of the CW's "Riverdale" returns Wednesday night. Mystery, a murder trial and teen angst await. Click through the gallery for nine other shows that make high school worth revisiting. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Teen TV Shows "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" (1996-2003) – If you're a 'Riverdale' loyal who hasn't seen this show yet, stop what you're doing and get acquainted with the show that paved the way for dark-and-twisty teen TV. Tell the Scooby Gang we sent you. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Teen TV Shows "Pretty Little Liars" (2010-2017) – If "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" was the mother of dark-and-twisty teen TV, "Pretty Little Liars" is its much younger fashionable sister who's kind of shady and has a lot of weird secrets, but you for some reason still want to be her friend. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Teen TV Shows "Friday Night Lights" (2006 - 2011) – Riggins, Coach Taylor and Connie Britton's perfect hair made for binge-worthy viewing. Clear eyes, full hearts, can't stop missing this show. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Teen TV Shows "13 Reasons Why" (2017) – In a troubled community seemingly filled with highly troubled teens, Clay tries to figure out a classmate's suicide. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Teen TV Shows "Gossip Girl" (2007-2012) – This salacious teen drama about the lives of a group of silver spoon teens was a feast of fashion, frenemies and far too many romantic pairings. "Elite" on Netflix has drawn some comparisons, but it's worth checking out the OG (original gossiper) for yourself. Xoxo Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Teen TV Shows "The Wonder Years" (1988 - 1993) – A baby boomer narrates his formative years in an artfully written, funny and poignant walk down memory lane. Kevin and Winnie forever. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Teen TV Shows "90210" (1990 - 2000) – The zip code that defined the '90s and made a generation of teen girls choose team Brandon or Dylan. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Teen TV Shows "Dawson's Creek: (1998-2003) – Impressively wordy conversations, major feels and tears. Lots of tears. Somewhere Dawson, Joey and Pacey are still stuck in a painful love triangle. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Teen TV Shows "My So-Called Life" (1994-1995) – The struggle was real for Angela (Claire Danes), a 15-year-old who was simultaneously trying to grow into herself and break out of her straight-laced habits. Authentic and honest, the show treated high school hurdles with the respect they damn deserve. Hide Caption 10 of 10AND FINALLYEat up