If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Melania Trump is on her way to Africa this morning, in her first major solo trip as first lady.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Brett KavanaughSupreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh was questioned by police in 1985 after he was accused of starting a bar fight while he was at Yale. A police report on the incident obtained by CNN doesn't say if anyone was arrested. The White House pushed back, with press secretary Sarah Sanders calling the story, first reported by The New York Times, "ridiculous." It comes as Kavanaugh's drinking gets renewed scrutiny (some of his college classmates have accused him of being dishonest about it). The FBI investigation into Kavanaugh, which after some criticism will include more witnesses , continues this week. CNN's Chris Cillizza says the inquiry has everybody holding their breath2. IndonesiaThe death toll keeps rising in Palu as desperation grows for survivors of last week's earthquake and tsunami. At least 1,234 have been killed , and crews keep finding bodies in the rubble. Residents in Palu faced a fifth day without adequate food and clean drinking water. Motorists lined up for hours just to get a bit of gas. International help is on the way, with the Red Cross sending seven tons of logistical supplies, and Australia giving an initial $500,000 in aid. Here's how you can help.JUST WATCHED After tsunami, dozens of bodies line streets Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH After tsunami, dozens of bodies line streets 02:323. Bump stocksIs a ban on bump stocks imminent? President Trump thinks so. Speaking on the anniversary of the Las Vegas concert massacre , Trump said a ban would happen "over the next couple of weeks." Bump stocks, if you've forgotten, allow semi-automatic weapons to fire at a faster rate. They were used by the Las Vegas shooter when he killed 58 people at a country music festival. A proposed Justice Department rule on bump stocks just entered a 90-day review period, so it may still be a little while before final action is taken on them.JUST WATCHED Trump: Bump stocks will be gone Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: Bump stocks will be gone 00:544. MacedoniaBoth sides are claiming victory in Macedonia's name change referendum . Voters overwhelming signaled their support for the measure, which would change the country's name to the Republic of North Macedonia. (Greece wants the change because Macedonia is also the name of a Greek province.) But because turnout was so low for the nonbinding referendum -- which also included a question about Macedonia joining the EU and NATO -- name change opponents say it doesn't reflect the will of the people. Regardless, Prime Minister Zoran Zaev can start the process of renaming his country.JUST WATCHED What in the World: Russia meddling in Balkans Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What in the World: Russia meddling in Balkans 03:165. Southwest weatherTropical Depression Rosa is set to make landfall this morning in Baja California, putting more than 11 million people in the Southwest under a flash flood watch . Rosa could dump up to 10 inches of rain on Baja California, then move northeast to drench Arizona with as much as 6 inches. Yes, it is unusual for the Southwest to get hit by hurricanes or tropical storms, but we've seen more of them on the West Coast in recent years. Scientists blame global warming. You can track the storm hereJUST WATCHED Rosa could soak the dry Southwest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rosa could soak the dry Southwest 01:33THIS JUST INNobel notablesBREAKFAST BROWSEHip hop beefJUST WATCHED How Cardi B became a star Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Cardi B became a star 01:24Hot partyMaybe it's time to put an end to the gender reveal parties. This border patrol agent's party ended up sparking a 47,000-acre wildfire . Yikes!Best of the bestAmazon's latest bricks-and-mortar store is so fancy. It only sells items that are top sellers, are new and trending or have a four-star rating.JUST WATCHED Thanks to Amazon you can talk to your microwave Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Thanks to Amazon you can talk to your microwave 01:13Flying highYes, LAX will let you pack a small amount of weed in your carry-on luggage , but don't even think about lighting up at the airport.RIPFans said goodbye to Charles Aznavour, a singer so smooth he was often called France's Frank Sinatra. He died at age 94TODAY'S NUMBER1JUST WATCHED The disappearance of the White House briefing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The disappearance of the White House briefing 04:51TODAY'S QUOTE"Like any siblings, they're getting cranky, so mom's really looking forward to the operation happening sooner rather than later."Elizabeth Lodge, CEO of Australian charity Children First Foundation, which raised $180,000 for an operation to separate a pair of 14-month-old conjoined twinsAND FINALLYWhat the heck are these?