If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Check out the newly crowned world's most powerful passport (and no, it's not from the US). Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Hurricane MichaelHurricane Michael intensified into a true monster overnight : a Category 4 storm with maximum sustained winds of 140 mph. Michael's barreling through the Gulf of Mexico for an expected landfall along the Florida Panhandle this afternoon. Now here's the truly scary part -- it's expected to grow stronger before it hits land. If it does hit Florida as a Category 4 storm, it'll be the strongest hurricane to strike the Panhandle in history as well as the strongest in terms of wind speed to make landfall in the United States this year.This morning Michael is about 140 miles southwest of Panama City, Florida. Nearly 4 million people are under hurricane warnings in Florida's Panhandle and Big Bend regions. Up to 12 inches of rain is expected in the area, with life-threatening storm surges of up to 13 feet. You can track the storm here , and if you need it, here's a handy checklist of what to do when a hurricane's coming.2. Nikki HaleyJUST WATCHED UN Ambassador Nikki Haley resigns Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH UN Ambassador Nikki Haley resigns 03:043. Missing Saudi journalistIf Jamal Khashoggi is indeed dead, his killing was ordered "by the highest levels" of Saudi Arabia's government, The New York Times reported . Khashoggi -- missing since entering the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul, Turkey, last week -- was killed within two hours of his arrival at the consulate and dismembered with a bone saw, a Turkish official told the newspaper. The Washington Post said before Khashoggi's disappearance, US intelligence intercepted communications of Saudi officials talking about capturing him. Saudi Arabia has denied involvement in his disappearance. Khashoggi's fiancée asked President Donald Trump for help.JUST WATCHED Questions linger after journalist disappears Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Questions linger after journalist disappears 03:364. VenezuelaOne of the men accused of trying to assassinate Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro died under mysterious circumstances . Fernando Albán, a Maduro critic and Caracas City Council member, died after a fall from a 10th-floor window in Venezuela's top intelligence agency. Government officials call it suicide; government critics call it murder, part of a massive crackdown on opposition groups. Albán was one of several people arrested in the August 4 plot against Maduro, which included flying drones armed with explosives and setting them off while he gave a speech. Maduro was not injured in the attack.JUST WATCHED Video appears to show drone in Venezuela attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video appears to show drone in Venezuela attack 00:425. Giant mosquitoesFloodwaters drenched North Carolina after Hurricane Florence blew through, and all that standing water produced a new problem: mega-size mosquitoes . Entomologists said these big bloodsuckers, called gallinippers, have zebra-striped legs and are two to three times as big as normal mosquitoes. Thankfully a bite from a gallinipper generally won't make you sick. Scientists in North Carolina are keeping an eye on Hurricane Michael, which could bring tropical winds and rain again to the state Thursday, and in turn provide just the right conditions for the emergence of even more mosquitoes.JUST WATCHED Giant mosquitoes multiplying after Florence Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Giant mosquitoes multiplying after Florence 00:43BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Taylor Swift arrives at the American Music Awards on Tuesday, October 9. Hide Caption 1 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Cardi B Hide Caption 2 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Post Malone Hide Caption 3 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Ciara Hide Caption 4 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Jennifer Lopez Hide Caption 5 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Carrie Underwood Hide Caption 6 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Halsey Hide Caption 7 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Dua Lipa Hide Caption 8 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Ella Mai Hide Caption 9 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Kelsea Ballerini Hide Caption 10 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Ashlee Simpson Hide Caption 11 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Evan Ross Hide Caption 12 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Bebe Rexha Hide Caption 13 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Lauren Jauregui Hide Caption 14 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Kane Brown Hide Caption 15 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Amber Heard Hide Caption 16 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Liza Koshy Hide Caption 17 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Shawn Mendes Hide Caption 18 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Tracee Ellis Ross Hide Caption 19 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Jessie James Decker Hide Caption 20 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Khalid Hide Caption 21 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Vanessa Hudgens Hide Caption 22 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Poppy Hide Caption 23 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Tiffany Young Hide Caption 24 of 25 Photos: American Music Awards: On the red carpet Laura Marano Hide Caption 25 of 25Sweet songWhen you're a music superstar, who should sing "Happy Birthday" to you? If you're Bruno Mars, When you're a music superstar, who should sing "Happy Birthday" to you? If you're Bruno Mars, you get Ed Sheeran , of course.Next-level trollingFirst the Boston Red Sox beat the New York Yankees to win the ALDS. Then they First the Boston Red Sox beat the New York Yankees to win the ALDS. Then they blasted "New York, New York" during the locker room celebration.Camp MetFashion designers may need to head to the woods for inspiration for next year's Met Gala, which will have Fashion designers may need to head to the woods for inspiration for next year's Met Gala, which will have a "camp" themePerfect pictureA week ago they saved A week ago they saved an infant's life . Then a trio of Oregon deputies reunited with her.Deputies Jonathan Zacharkiw, Dan Olson and Jonah Russell reunite with baby Audrey and her parents.TODAY'S NUMBER$2,290AND FINALLY ...Fun food