If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Are job titles important? Read what happened when an advertising agency decided to ditch them . And here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Saudi ArabiaSecretary of State Mike Pompeo briefs President Trump this morning on his meetings with Saudi and Turkish leaders over the disappearance and apparent death of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Criticism is mounting over the Trump administration's handling of the crisis, with many saying Trump seems more interested in providing cover for the Saudis than in finding out the truth. Turkish officials say they have evidence that Khashoggi was killed in Saudi Arabia's consulate in Istanbul and that many of the 15 Saudi men implicated in the incident have high-level ties to the Saudi government. Khashoggi's final column for the Washington Post, in which he advocates for freedom of the press in the Middle East, was published last night.2. US deficitPresident Trump asked his Cabinet secretaries to cut their budgets by 5% next year, as his administration tries to get a handle on the rapidly ballooning federal deficit. The deficit jumped to $779 billion in fiscal year 2018. That's up 17% from last year and the highest level since 2012. Republicans blame Democrats, saying they're resistant to cutting spending on social programs. Dems point the finger at the GOP's massive tax cut . Republicans haven't talked much about the deficit or federal debt since Trump took office. But that's all they talked about when Barack Obama was in the Oval Office. CNN's Z. Byron Wolf says the GOP hypocrisy on this is stunning , even by Washington standards.3. Crimea campus attackAt least 18 people died in an attack on a college in Russian-annexed Crimea. The victims, mostly teens, were killed when a bomb exploded in the school's dining room. Many of the dead had also been shot. About 50 others were injured. The suspect in the attack, reportedly a fellow student, killed himself in a library. Authorities first called this a terror attack but later reclassified it as a murder investigation.JUST WATCHED Attack in Crimea kills more than a dozen Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Attack in Crimea kills more than a dozen 02:144. Jayme ClossThe FBI is asking for help to find a missing 13-year-old girl whose parents were found dead. An Amber Alert was sent out for Jayme Closs, who disappeared Monday from her Wisconsin home. A 911 call was made from her home, but when deputies arrived, Closs' parents had been shot to death and she was gone. The FBI believes Closs is in danger.JUST WATCHED 13-year-old missing after parents found dead Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 13-year-old missing after parents found dead 01:225. Climate changeWant to stroll through the Blue Mosque in Istanbul or ride in a gondola through the canals of Venice? You might want to plan those trips for sooner rather than later. They're just a couple of dozens of World Heritage sites endangered by climate change . A study published this week says the flooding risk in the Mediterranean region will increase by 50% by 2100, while the risk of erosion will jump by 13% during the same period. The impact on historical icons would be significant, unless the world takes action, the study warns.Photos: Historic Mediterranean cities in danger from climate change Historical sites endangered by climate change – The Blue Mosque in Istanbul, Turkey, is one of 156 World Heritage sites in the coastal Mediterranean endangered by the effects of climate change, according to a study published in Nature Communications. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Historic Mediterranean cities in danger from climate change The Leaning Tower of Pisa and the Cathedral in the "Square of Miracle" in Italy are in danger of flooding by 2100 due to climate change, says a study by the Coastal Risks and Sea-Level Rise Research Group. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Historic Mediterranean cities in danger from climate change Rising sea levels and increasing erosion, the study said, may endanger historical icons such as this petrified victim of the volcanic eruption of Mont Vesuvius in 79 AD at the archaeological site of Pompeii, in Italy. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Historic Mediterranean cities in danger from climate change Like Split, Croatia, many of the endangered World Heritage sites sit on or near the water. Our ancestors choose to build there because of the access to fishing and commerce. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Historic Mediterranean cities in danger from climate change Venice is one of the cities at highest risk of destruction by the effects of climate change. Rising sea waters have flooded the city for centuries, but the study's projections show it could face 8 foot high floods due to rising sea levels within 80 years. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Historic Mediterranean cities in danger from climate change Due to the steep topography of many of the sites clustered along the Mediterranean Sea, most cities, then and now, were built at the water's edge. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Historic Mediterranean cities in danger from climate change The Avenue of the Knights in the medieval Old Town of Rhodes, Greece, is also in danger. "If our common heritage is destroyed or lost, it is not possible to replace or rebuild it," said lead study author Lena Reimann, a doctoral researcher for the Coastal Risks and Sea-Level Rise Research Group in Germany. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Historic Mediterranean cities in danger from climate change Dubrovnik, a 16th-century citadel and tourist spot on Croatia's Adriatic Sea, is another of the region's most endangered historical sites. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Historic Mediterranean cities in danger from climate change In the Israeli port city of Haifa, future erosion from rains and rising sea levels will eat away at the foundations of such wonders as the terraced gardens and the golden Shrine of Bab. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Historic Mediterranean cities in danger from climate change The beautiful villages in the "Cinque Terre" area of Italy are at high risk by the year 2100 from erosion caused by climate change, according to the study. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Historic Mediterranean cities in danger from climate change The ancient city of Ephesus is one of the sites in greatest danger from future erosion caused by climate change, said the study. Ephesus was an Ancient Greek city, but excavations of the site have revealed grand monuments from the Roman Imperial period including the remains of the famous Temple of Artemis, the Great Theatre and the Library of Celsus. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Historic Mediterranean cities in danger from climate change Underground areas, such as the vaulted cellars of the Palace of the Roman Emperor Diocletian in Split, Croatia, would be hard hit by the rising sea levels caused by climate change. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Historic Mediterranean cities in danger from climate change Countries facing economic or social disturbances might find it difficult to allocate resources to protect world treasures such as Istanbul's famous Hagia Sofia in Istanbul, Turkey. Hide Caption 13 of 13BREAKFAST BROWSEThe end is nearThe upcoming season of "Orange is the New Black" will be the Netflix series' last, but some say, creatively at least, it comes a couple of seasons too late.JUST WATCHED OITNB surprises fans, announces final season Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH OITNB surprises fans, announces final season 00:47In the driver's seatHow do you make surgery less scary for kids? Give them tiny electric cars and let them drive themselves to operations.Toke tourismReady to roll up to Canada to enjoy its just-now-legal weed? Be careful before you light up, because there are lots of rules.JUST WATCHED Marijuana is now legal across Canada Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Marijuana is now legal across Canada 01:37Off keyAn ice shelf in Antarctica seems to be singing, and the whole thing is downright scary.JUST WATCHED Eerie hum discovered in Antarctica Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Eerie hum discovered in Antarctica 01:15The robots are comingMeet Mica. She's an AI assistant that looks you in the eye, offers a warm smile and will probably lead the robot apocalypse against us all.JUST WATCHED How realistic virtual reality experiences impact your mind Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How realistic virtual reality experiences impact your mind 08:41HAPPENING LATERCNN town hallCNN's Dana Bash moderates a live, one-hour town hall with Democratic Rep. Beto O'Rourke, who is running for US Senate in Texas, at 7 p.m. ET. (GOP Sen. Ted Cruz's campaign declined to participate.) To stay up to date on all election events, subscribe on your Google or Apple calendar.JUST WATCHED Poll shows Cruz leading over O'Rourke Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Poll shows Cruz leading over O'Rourke 03:33TODAY'S NUMBER$365 millionThe value of the massive deal boxer Canelo Alvarez signed with sports streaming service DAZN. It's the richest contract ever signed by an athlete.AND FINALLYWhat the heck is that?