Were you affected by Hurricane Michael? Text, iMessage or WhatsApp your videos, photos and stories to CNN when it's safe: 347-322-0415Mexico Beach, Florida (CNN) Joe Bush says he's lived 19 years in Mexico Beach, Florida, and loves it. But on Monday, after surveying the damage inflicted by Hurricane Michael, he's decided to move away.He's ridden out previous storms but evacuated when he heard Michael was a Category 4 storm. He came back to find his house, furniture and vehicles were heavily damaged by water."I couldn't get nothing for this land now," he said. "People gonna be scared to death to come down here to buy and invest money. So we're just going to leave it. Hold onto the land and I have a 10-year-old grandson and hopefully when he gets 50 he can retire down here."Mexico Beach took the hardest punch from Michael when the storm made landfall five days ago. Besides the widespread destruction, town police say two people were killed there, including one body found Monday.That brings the death toll from the storm to 19 people in four states.This island is now in ruins after Hurricane MichaelThis island is now in ruins after Hurricane Michael 02:04This island is now in ruins after Hurricane MichaelOne piece of good news emerged Monday when Mexico Beach Police Chief Anthony Kelly said the number of unaccounted people in the town was down to three. Earlier, authorities said they could not account for 30 to 35 people in the town on the Gulf Coast. Crews have spent days sifting through heavy rubble looking for them.It's unknown how many people are missing overall because of Michael.Residents will be allowed to return to Mexico Beach Wednesday if they have proof of residence or photo identification, according to the city's official Facebook page . An evening curfew will remain in place until further notice. Property owners and insurance adjusters will also be allowed into the city.City Manager Tanya Castor had earlier said residents would be allowed back in Tuesday. She told CNN's Martin Savidge that officials hope to have electricity up and running on the east side of town in weeks, rather than months.Randy June is one resident who plans to move back. On Monday, he stared at his flattened neighborhood, dazed as his belongings lay strewn across a canal. But while his house is destroyed, this Florida Panhandle town is still home."We ain't going nowhere. We're going to rebuild somehow. I just don't know how yet," he said.Widespread devastationBeyond the ruins of this once-idyllic beach town, thousands of other Floridians must start a new life marked by grief, desperation and uncertainty.More than 230,000 were still without power Monday morning, unable to fend off the stifling heat. Drivers are lining up for hours to get fuel. And residents in the hardest-hit areas are relying on airdropped food and water to survive.On Monday, President Donald Trump visited some of the devastated cities in Florida and Georgia.Over the weekend, he made a disaster declaration for six Georgia counties. That followed his previous declaration of a major disaster in nine Florida countiesMany of the coastal houses in Mexico Beach, Florida, have been obliterated.These declarations give affected residents and businesses access to federal aid and funding.FEMA has 14 teams in Florida to help people register for disaster assistance. It also has 17 distribution points throughout Florida and Georgia where people can get food and water.'Nobody was in tears about being hungry'Chad Frazier has plenty of reasons to be devastated. His business was wiped out by the hurricane. His son's middle school in Panama City was also annihilated.But Frazier is too thankful to be upset. Immediately after the hurricane, strangers came from out of town to provide food and water. They even beat FEMA to the scene, Frazier said."The people who came, that was the biggest blessing to us," he said. "I didn't see nobody in panic mode. Nobody was in tears about being hungry."As he stood in front of a mountain of debris, Frazier said he's coping well thanks to the outpouring of generosity."My shop is down, (but) I'm not in bad spirits," he said. "This just made my faith grow."Arthur Phillips said his house in Panama City was not badly damaged, partly thanks to hurricane windows, but the rest of the city is "like a war zone.""It's really really bad," he said. "Everybody's come together to help. There's a lot of Red Cross. Everybody's coming out to help."Businesses have donated at least $425,000 to Hurricane Michael relief efforts, according to a release from Gov. Rick Scott's office.The release says Wells Fargo donated $250,000, Aetna donated $100,000, Duke Energy donated $50,000 and Uber donated $25,000 to the Florida Disaster Fund.Across town, a Panama City Waffle House was so damaged that only the "s" remained on its iconic sign. While Waffle Houses are known for staying open during natural disasters, this restaurant took a beating.But that didn't stop employees from feeding neighbors on Monday."We are giving out free food curbside at 2217 Thomas Drive," the restaurant chain tweeted."Come on by until 6 pm!"The @WaffleHouse food truck has rolled into Panama City. We are giving out free food curbside at 2217 Thomas Drive. Come on by until 6 pm! pic.twitter.com/Uqn4ZX1WTk — Waffle House News (@WaffleHouseNews) October 15, 2018Residents could still be trappedHundreds of people from across the country have called local officials, desperate for any news about their loved ones.But rescue attempts have been arduous because of widespread debris and buckled roads that make transportation difficult.Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction President Donald Trump, first lady Melania Trump and Florida Gov. Rick Scott tour a Lynn Haven, Florida, neighborhood that was affected by Hurricane Michael. Hide Caption 1 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Lisa Patrick is overcome with emotion as she visits the remains of her home in Mexico Beach, Florida, on Monday, October 15. Hide Caption 2 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction The President and first lady hand out bottles of water to people in Lynn Haven on October 15. Hide Caption 3 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction The Trumps tour damage in Lynn Haven. Hide Caption 4 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction President Trump flies over the devastation in Mexico Beach. Hide Caption 5 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Mexico Beach residents make their way across a washed-out road on Friday, October 12. Hide Caption 6 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction An aerial view shows the devastation in Mexico Beach on October 12. The small beach resort saw the brunt of Michael, authorities say. Hide Caption 7 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Dough Shelby looks out at the destruction from his house in Mexico Beach on October 12. Hide Caption 8 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Little remains of a burned home destroyed by the hurricane in Mexico Beach on October 12. Hide Caption 9 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Benny Hobson sits in his recliner on Thursday, October 11, after losing the front wall of his house in Panama City, Florida. Hide Caption 10 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Storm-damaged boats are piled up in Panama City on October 11. Hide Caption 11 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Elizabeth Hanson, right, and her daughter Emaly hug their neighbor Cindy Clark on October 11. The hurricane heavily damaged their homes in Mexico Beach. Hide Caption 12 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Collector cars are covered in debris in Panama City on October 11. Hide Caption 13 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Tom Bailey walks his bike past a home that was carried across a road and slammed up against a condo complex in Mexico Beach. Hide Caption 14 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Joyce Fox stands in front of her heavily damaged home in Panama City on October 11. Hide Caption 15 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction A boat sits amid debris in Mexico Beach on October 11. Hide Caption 16 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Kylie Strampe holds her 4-month-old daughter, Lola, while surveying the damage in Callaway, Florida, on October 11. Hide Caption 17 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Trees snapped by Michael's winds are seen in Mexico Beach on October 11. Hide Caption 18 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Amanda Logsdon faces a heavy cleanup task at her Panama City house on October 11. Hide Caption 19 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Rescue personnel search Mexico Beach. Hide Caption 20 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction A man walks through a damaged store in Springfield, Florida. Hide Caption 21 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction An aerial photo shows a destroyed boat in Mexico Beach on October 11. Hide Caption 22 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction A tree sits on top of a Panama City mobile home. Almost all the residents of the mobile-home park rode out the storm. All homes were damaged except one. Hide Caption 23 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Kathy Coy stands among what is left of her home in Panama City. She said she was in the home when it was blown apart and is thankful to be alive. Hide Caption 24 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction The view from a Panama City hotel room that lost a wall in the storm. Hide Caption 25 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Firefighter Austin Schlarb performs a door-to-door search in Mexico Beach on October 11. Hide Caption 26 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Damaged buildings are seen in Panama City on October 11. Hide Caption 27 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Debris is scattered in Mexico Beach early on October 11. Hide Caption 28 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Wreckage is piled up in Mexico Beach, near where Michael made landfall. Hide Caption 29 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Debris burns in Mexico Beach on October 11. Hide Caption 30 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Haley Nelson inspects damage at her family properties in the Panama City area on Wednesday, October 10. Hide Caption 31 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Cars are tossed among the debris in Mexico Beach. Hide Caption 32 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Kaylee O'Brian cries inside her Panama City home after several trees fell on it on October 10. Hide Caption 33 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Floodwaters overwhelm vehicles in Panama City on Wednesday, October 10. Hide Caption 34 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction A storm chaser climbs into his vehicle to retrieve equipment after a hotel canopy collapsed in Panama City Beach on October 10. Hide Caption 35 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction A helicopter circles a Panama City neighborhood in the storm's wake on October 10. Hide Caption 36 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction A woman and her children wait near a destroyed gas station in Panama City on October 10. Hide Caption 37 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction A McDonald's sign is mangled in Panama City on October 10. Hide Caption 38 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Boats are left damaged in a Panama City marina on October 10. Hide Caption 39 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction People comfort each other outside an apartment building in Panama City. Hide Caption 40 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction People make their way through a building's wreckage in Panama City on October 10. Hide Caption 41 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction The powerful hurricane left houses battered in Panama City Beach. Hide Caption 42 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Phlomena Telker stands on the remains of her covered porch in Panama City. Hide Caption 43 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Boats are damaged at the Port St. Joe Marina in the Florida Panhandle. Hide Caption 44 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Lenora Adams evacuates a motel with her dog as the hurricane comes ashore in Panacea, Florida, on October 10. Hide Caption 45 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Rick Tesk, left, helps a business owner rescue his dogs from a damaged business in Panama City. Hide Caption 46 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Wrecked boats sit near a pier in Panama City. Hide Caption 47 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction A resident of St. Marks, Florida, pulls a cooler out of the floodwaters near his home. Hide Caption 48 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Pine trees litter a yard in Port St. Joe. Hide Caption 49 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Streets begin to flood as high tide approaches in St. Petersburg, Florida, on October 10. Hide Caption 50 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Mike Lindsey stands in his Panama City antique shop after it was damaged by Hurricane Michael on October 10. Hide Caption 51 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Trees lie on top of a home in Panama City. Hide Caption 52 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Bo Lynn's Market is flooded in St. Marks on October 10. Hide Caption 53 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction A truck drives along a road in Alligator Point, Florida, that had been washed out by the storm on October 10. Hide Caption 54 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Waves hit a house in Alligator Point on October 10. Hide Caption 55 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction The eye of the storm, as seen from the International Space Station on October 10. Hide Caption 56 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction A woman checks on her vehicle after a hotel canopy collapsed in Panama City Beach. Hide Caption 57 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Mitchell Pope tries to salvage what he can from his mobile home in St. Marks. Hide Caption 58 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction This boat ran aground at Florida's Quietwater Beach. Hide Caption 59 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Jayden Morgan, 11, evacuates his home as water starts to flood his neighborhood in St. Marks. Hide Caption 60 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction A person takes pictures of the surf and fishing pier on Okaloosa Island in Fort Walton Beach, Florida. Hide Caption 61 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Emily Hindle lies on the floor at an evacuation shelter set up at a Panama City Beach high school on October 10. Hide Caption 62 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Kathy Eaton takes what she can from her Panama City Beach home as she tries to get out of the way of the storm on October 10. Hide Caption 63 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Justin Davis, left, and Brock Mclean board up a business in Destin, Florida, on Tuesday, October 9. Hide Caption 64 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Krystal Day, left, leads a sandbag assembly line at the Old Port Cove restaurant in Ozello, Florida, on October 9. Hide Caption 65 of 66 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Michael's trail of destruction Workers scramble to store boats at Shields Marina in St. Marks. Hide Caption 66 of 66Crews are using bulldozers to move debris and cutting trees with chainsaws to clear highways and hundreds of roads blocked by the wreckage."What's taking up most of your time right now just gaining access to some of these areas," said Panama City Fire Chief Alex Baird.The fire department has received more than 200 calls for checks on residents. But Baird said it could take days or even weeks before those checks will be completed. Crews need to go door-to-door because there is no power, and cellphone service is spotty.The hurricane also damaged three prisons on the Florida panhandle, forcing the evacuation of more than 4,100 inmates, the state's department of corrections said Monday.The death toll is 19, but could riseMexico Beach, Florida, bore the brunt of the storm's wrath, authorities say.At least 19 people have died since Hurricane Michael made landfall Wednesday.Six of those victims died in Virginia. Four people drowned and a firefighter was killed when a tractor-trailer lost control and hit the firefighter's truck on a wet highway. Virginia emergency officials said the sixth person died in Charlotte County.In Georgia, an 11-year-old girl died when a metal carport came crashing through her family's roofIn North Carolina, two of the three people who who died in the storm were killed when their vehicle struck a fallen tree, McDowell County officials said.Many of the rescue efforts have been focused on Mexico Beach, where canine teams are combing through mangled structures and piles of rubble looking for survivors.About 280 of the town's 1,200 residents had said they planned to ride out the storm, but many fled at the last minute when Michael quickly gained strength, Mayor Al Cathey said.With each passing day, the odds of trapped victims surviving get smaller. In Mexico Beach, authorities brought in a temporary morgue, just in case.No school indefinitelySchools in at least eight counties -- Washington, Liberty, Jackson, Gulf, Gadsden, Franklin, Calhoun and Bay -- will remain closed because of storm damage, according to a press release from the the governor's office.In devastated Bay County, Florida, officials said every school is damaged."It's not going to be a normal school year. There's nothing normal about where we are right now," Bay District Schools Superintendent Bill Husfelt told CNN affiliate WMBBWith the majority of its 26,000 students displaced and many schools deemed unsafe because of the damage, officials are discussing alternative ways to get students back to the classroom and to provide psychological aid for them."I would say every single school in Bay County has some type of damage, some more extensive than others," said Steve Moss, vice chairman of the Bay District School Board. "Some it'll probably take weeks or months to get online. Some, it will take years."An earlier version of this story misstated Mexico Beach Police Chief Anthony Kelly's title.