If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.About 41 million American kids could be out trick-or-treating today, so we hope you've bought enough candy. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President TrumpA day after visiting Pittsburgh to mourn the victims of the synagogue attack, President Trump returns to campaign mode, hitting 11 cities in six days before Election Day on Tuesday. During a three-hour stay in Pittsburgh, the President and first lady somberly laid stones atop the 11 Star of David markers planted in the ground outside the Tree of Life synagogue, where 11 worshipers were gunned down. He didn't make any public remarks, and there were some who protested his visit. Earlier in the day, the President made other news, when he said he could end birthright citizenship with an executive order. But pretty much everybody says that's unconstitutional2. Indonesia plane crashInvestigators of the Lion Air flight 610 crash that killed 189 people say they've heard transponder pings that could lead them to the plane's flight recorders. So far, searchers have only found small pieces of debris and some human remains following the plane's crash Monday into the Java Sea near Jakarta. Flight data shows the almost-new jet was performing erratically after takeoff, and the pilots asked air traffic control if they could return to the airport. But the plane didn't turn around, and the pilots never indicated there was an emergency.3. PakistanA Christian woman in Pakistan is free after spending eight years on death row on blasphemy charges. Asia Bibi was convicted of blasphemy in 2010 and sentenced to hang. Her case ended up in Pakistan's Supreme Court, which tossed out the conviction and the death sentence. Bibi was accused of defiling the name of the Prophet Muhammed during an argument with Muslim co-workers. They had refused to drink from a bucket of water Bibi touched because she wasn't Muslim. Bibi said it was a case of women who didn't like her "taking revenge." Blasphemy is punishable by death in Pakistan, but the law is criticized by human rights groups, which say it's used disproportionately against minority religious groups and journalistsJUST WATCHED Pakistani Christian on death row acquitted Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pakistani Christian on death row acquitted 01:134. 'Whitey' BulgerJUST WATCHED Boston gangster Whitey Bulger killed in prison Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boston gangster Whitey Bulger killed in prison 01:245. Generation ZAmerica's young people reported the most mental health problems , and a new survey says gun violence is a huge factor. The survey, from the American Psychological Association, found that about 37% of Generation Z -- people between the ages of 15 and 21 -- reported getting help or treatment for mental health issues, compared with 26% for Gen Xers and 22% for baby boomers. The survey also lists gun violence as the top stressor for Generation Z. One psychologist said the results reflect the fact that the brains of young adults haven't developed enough to handle stress like adults do. Gen Z is also more likely to get help for mental issues than others, thus the higher numbers.JUST WATCHED We can't avoid stress, but here's how to manage it Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH We can't avoid stress, but here's how to manage it 06:42BREAKFAST BROWSETruce timeIt's official. The great Nicki Minaj-Cardi B rap battle of 2018 is over. That means we can return our attention to the ongoing 50 Cent-Ja Rule beef.JUST WATCHED The sexism behind Cardi B-Nicki Minaj debate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The sexism behind Cardi B-Nicki Minaj debate 02:31Rolling onRemember when Segways came out (almost 20 years ago), how they were supposed to change the world? Well, don't laugh. They still just might.JUST WATCHED The rise and fall and rise again of Segway Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The rise and fall and rise again of Segway 04:47Don't mess with Mr. FeenyActor William Daniels, of "Boy Meets World" fame, proved that even at age 91, he's not to be trifled with. He stopped an intruder from breaking in his home.Just like JawsMeet the trash-eating "shark" drone that's patrolling the waters of a Dubai marina.Fantastic findSomebody just dug up a more-than-2-pound, 5,655-carat emerald crystal at a mine in Zambia.TODAY'S NUMBERS$180,000The amount raised by Muslim communities in three days for the Pittsburgh synagogue shooting victimsJUST WATCHED Muslim community raises funds for victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Muslim community raises funds for victims 01:5392The number of points the Golden State Warriors scored in the first half (!) of their game against the Chicago Bulls. Oh, and the Warriors' Klay Thompson set a record (for most three-pointers in an NBA game) to bootJUST WATCHED Everything you need to know for the new NBA season Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Everything you need to know for the new NBA season 02:48TODAY'S QUOTE"I've been used to spread messages I don't believe in."AND FINALLYScary situation