If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Check out the giant floating pipe that's trying to pick up all the plastic trash in the middle of the Pacific. Here's what else you need to know to1. Saudi ArabiaUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo arrived in Riyadh this morning. He's expected to meet with Saudi King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman over the disappearance of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Saudi Arabia is prepping a report admitting that Khashoggi was killed during an interrogation that went wrong, sources told CNN. Khashoggi's family, US political leaders and the international community want an independent inquiry. President Trump, after a phone conversation with King Salman, floated the idea that perhaps "rogue killers" may have been behind Khashoggi's apparent death.2. Hurricane MichaelThe death toll from Hurricane Michael rose to 19 after a body was found in Mexico Beach. But there is some good news. The number of missing dropped down to three, the city's police chief said. Earlier, authorities said they didn't know where 30 to 35 people were in the hard-hit coastal town. President Trump toured some of the worst-hit areas in Florida and Georgia. More than 230,000 customers remain without power almost a week after Michael devastated this part of the Florida Panhandle as a powerful Category 5 storm. Schools in at least eight Florida counties remain closed because of the damage.3. YemenThe conflict in Yemen doesn't generate a ton of headlines, but it should. This grinding battle between Arab allies led by Saudi Arabia and Houthi rebels backed by Iran has excaberated already dreadful conditions in the Middle East's poorest country. Now comes word that almost 12 million people face starvation as fighting intensifies around the port city of Hodeidah, which is an important aid delivery link, the World Food Programme said. And a UN official said unless the fighting stops, Yemen might endure the worst famine the world has seen in a century.JUST WATCHED Millions face famine in Yemen amid airstrikes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Millions face famine in Yemen amid airstrikes 01:404. Tanzania kidnappingAfrica's youngest billionaire has been kidnapped. Mohammed Dewji, 43, a business tycoon from Tanzania, was snatched up last week by a pair of gunmen as he left a hotel gym in Dar es Salaam. Police say they haven't received a ransom demand yet. About 20 men have been arrested so far in connection with the kidnapping. Dewji's family is offering one billion shillings (about $440,000) in reward money. Dewji, who runs a massive family business with holdings in textile and food and beverage manufacturing, has a net worth of about $1.5 billion.JUST WATCHED Meet one of Africa's youngest billionaires Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meet one of Africa's youngest billionaires 04:465. Paul AllenTributes poured in from the worlds of technology, sports and business as word got out that Paul Allen had died of complications related to non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Allen, 65, was the billionaire co-founder of Microsoft. He founded that iconic computer company in 1975 with Bill Gates, who said he was "heartbroken" by the death of one of his "oldest and dearest friends." But Allen was more than a tech guy. He bought two pro sports teams, the NBA's Portland Trail Blazers and the NFL's Seattle Seahawks. He was also a philanthropist who gave away more than $2 billion of his fortune to charity. Read more about his remarkable life hereJUST WATCHED Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen dead at 65 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen dead at 65 01:19BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Gem saleLooks like Marie Antoinette is about to lose the family jewels . Gems in her family for two centuries will be up for auction soon.Not a good lookHe bragged about killing a family of baboons . Now Idaho's fish and game commissioner has to step down from his job.JUST WATCHED Idaho wildlife official facing calls to resign Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Idaho wildlife official facing calls to resign 02:35Super SOSA family, trapped after a hurricane, called for assistance by spelling out "HELP" with fallen trees.Baby talkAfter they announced they're expecting their first child, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex have been showered with baby gifts during their tour of Australia.JUST WATCHED Meghan and Harry expecting their first child Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meghan and Harry expecting their first child 01:01'Just keep singing'The Amazon series "Transparent" will go out with a bang, or rather, a song. Its upcoming fifth and final season will end with a musical episode.QUOTE OF THE DAY"The tweet in question constitutes 'rhetorical hyperbole' normally associated with politics and public discourse in the United States."S. James Otero, dismissing Stormy Daniels' District Judge, dismissing Stormy Daniels' defamation lawsuit against President TrumpHAPPENING LATERLemonade out of lemons"The Conners," the sitcom raised from the ashes of the Roseanne Barr fiasco, premieres tonight on ABC. CNN's Brian Lowry, in a spoiler-free preview, says the producers make the best out of a bad situation.NUMBER OF THE DAY$100 millionThe amount of cash sitting in President Trump's re-election war chest, giving him a huge financial edge over a big field of potential Democratic contenders jockeying to challenge him in 2020AND FINALLY ...Just like a catYou could get upset at this puppy, showcasing a little cat-like mischievousness. But he's just so cute! (Click to view)