Get '5 things' in your inbox If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN)Get Up to Speed and Out the Door. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. How do you say "frappuccino" in American Sign Language? The baristas at Starbucks' first US sign language store know. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Saudi ArabiaWe'll hear from Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman later this morning, in his first public speech since international fury erupted over the death of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The Crown Prince will speak on a panel at the investment conference in Riyadh that everybody bailed on after outrage grew over the Saudis' involvement in Khashoggi's death. It's not clear if the Crown Prince will address the scandal. In Washington, even President Trump has grown tired of the kingdom's ever-shifting stories in the Khashoggi case, calling it "the worst cover-up ever." The US also said it would be pulling the visas of the men suspected of killing Khashoggi.JUST WATCHED Trump on journalist's death: Worst cover-up ever Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump on journalist's death: Worst cover-up ever 00:412. RussiaPresident Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin may meet up again next month. Trump said they'd likely meet in Paris, where both men will be for the 100th anniversary of the WWI armistice on November 11. They'd surely talk about Trump's intention to pull the US out of a nuclear weapons treaty with Russia that the US President says the Russians have violated. They'd probably also talk about Trump's threat to pretty much restart the nuclear arms race. Trump said this week the US would build up its nuclear arsenal until other nations "come to their senses."JUST WATCHED New arms race brewing between US and Russia Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New arms race brewing between US and Russia 02:36