(CNN) A number of similar crude explosive devices have been sent since Monday to former President Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, other top political figures and CNN's New York offices.Here is a timeline:FridayCesar Sayoc, 56, was arrested in connection with the suspicious packages, law enforcement sources told CNN. Sayoc, who has an Aventura, Florida, address, was arrested at a business in nearby Plantation, Florida.The sources said Sayoc had a criminal history and also had ties to New York. Footage showed officials in Plantation towing away a van with stickers that featured images of President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence.There was also a sticker that said "CNN Sucks."Earlier Friday the FBI confirmed an 11th package , addressed to Democratic Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey, had been recovered in Florida. Sources previously told CNN that investigators believed some of the packages might have originated in Florida and that investigators were there, chasing down leads.The package was addressed to Booker's office in Camden, New Jersey, sources said.Law enforcement officials told CNN the package was found Thursday night.The #FBI has confirmed an 11th package has been recovered in Florida, similar in appearance to the others, addressed to Sen. Cory Booker. — FBI (@FBI) October 26, 2018The New York Police Department also tweeted Friday morning that it was investigating a suspicious package, and a law enforcement official told CNN the package was at a postal facility on West 52nd Street in New York.JUST WATCHED James Clapper: This is domestic terrorism Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH James Clapper: This is domestic terrorism 02:15The 12th package, which was similar to the others, was addressed to both the former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and to CNN, according to a law enforcement official.Authorities also began investigating a suspicious package in Sacramento, California, addressed to Democratic Sen. Kamala Harris, according to a law enforcement official.Another law enforcement source told CNN authorities were investigating a suspicious package intercepted in Burlingame, California, that was addressed to billionaire Tom Steyer, an outspoken Trump critic.Thursdayat a building in Lower Manhattan's Tribeca neighborhood. The address, 375 Greenwich St., matches that of the Tribeca Film Center. De Niro, the co-founder of the Tribeca Film Festival, is a vocal critic of Trump. Authorities responded early Thursday to a suspicious package that had been sent to actor-director Robert De Niro at a building in Lower Manhattan's Tribeca neighborhood. The address, 375 Greenwich St., matches that of the Tribeca Film Center. De Niro, the co-founder of the Tribeca Film Festival, is a vocal critic of Trump.The package had been received in the general mailroom on Wednesday, according to a law enforcement official. A retired police officer discovered it and left it in his office.After seeing news reports, he realized it was similar to other packages in the news and called police at about 4 a.m. on Thursday, according to the official.The package was removed from the building about 7 a.m.The packages were similar to others discovered this week and contained potential explosive devices. Authorities also located two suspicious packages addressed to former Vice President Joe Biden at post offices in Delaware , a law enforcement official said.The packages weresimilar to others discovered this week and contained potential explosive devices.JUST WATCHED Who got what, when: A timeline of when bombs were found Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who got what, when: A timeline of when bombs were found 04:22At least one of them was misaddressed and returned to sender, two law enforcement sources told CNN.WednesdayA suspicious package was sent to the Florida office of Democratic Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz on Wednesday morning. It was intended for former US Attorney General Eric Holder but had the wrong address. The package was returned to the Democratic congresswoman because her office was the return label on the package, two law enforcement sources said.CNN's New York bureau in the Time Warner Center was evacuated shortly after 10 a.m. after the discovery of a package containing a bomb, said law enforcement officials. They said the package was addressed to former CIA Director John Brennan.A suspicious package addressed to the Washington office of US Rep. Maxine Waters, D-California, was intercepted at a congressional mail-screening facility in Maryland, and a second package addressed to the congresswoman was found at a postal facility in Los Angeles. It matches the description of those sent to the other officials.A package containing a possible explosive device intended for Obama was intercepted by the US Secret Service at a screening facility in Washington.TuesdayA package containing a possible explosive device and intended for Clinton, the former secretary of state and first lady, was intercepted. It was discovered during routine mail screening procedures Tuesday evening, according to authorities.Monday