If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) As the sun comes up on the Florida Panhandle this morning we're getting up to speed on the devastation delivered by Hurricane Michael. People there are going to need assistance. Here's how you can help . And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Tropical Storm MichaelMichael is a tropical storm this morning , churning through central and eastern Georgia on its way to the storm-weary Carolinas. But everyone is just now getting a sense of the destruction it brought to Florida . Michael slammed into the Florida Panhandle on Wednesday as a powerful Category 4 storm with winds of 155 mph. It was the third-most powerful hurricane in history to hit the continental United States.• At least two people are dead, untold numbers of homes and businesses have been destroyed and thousands are without power.• The small coastal town of Mexico Beach, Florida, has been left in ruins• People who rode out the storm in their homes in Panama City saw their roofs fly away.• Michael has been a monster storm unlike any other. CNN's Holly Yan explains why• Michael's strength may reflect the effect of climate change on storms. CNN's John Sutter says it may be time to stop calling hurricanes " natural disasters ."• If you have a weak phone connection, you can get text-only versions of top stories.• And don't forget to sign up for hurricane alertsJUST WATCHED See perfect calm in eye of Hurricane Michael Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See perfect calm in eye of Hurricane Michael 00:582. Financial marketsThe markets in Asia and Europe were down overnigh t as the shockwaves from the big drop in the US stock market reverberated around the world. The Dow plummeted 832 points Wednesday, the third-worst point decline in history. Tech stocks were hit especially hard. The rise in yields on US Treasury bonds, now near a seven-year high, was blamed for the massive sell-off . Stocks tend to slump after sharp spikes in yields because that makes bonds, which are seen as safer assets, more appealing. Wall Street is also reacting to the rise in interest rates. The Federal Reserve is steadily raising rates to keep inflation in check and make sure this red-hot economy doesn't overheat.JUST WATCHED Dow drops more than 800 points Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dow drops more than 800 points 00:473. Missing Saudi journalistA bipartisan group of US senators wants President Donald Trump to investigate the disappearance of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The lawmakers, from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, sent Trump a letter asking for a probe and to impose sanctions against those responsible. Trump's had a muted response to Khashoggi's disappearance, possibly because of his close ties to Saudi Arabia. And his administration's goals for the Middle East depend on Saudi Arabia's rulers and their money. Khashoggi, a critic of Saudi Arabia's leaders, has not been seen since entering the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul more than a week ago. Turkish officials reportedly say they believe he was killed by a Saudi murder squad . Saudi Arabia has repeatedly denied Turkey's account of the story, saying that Khashoggi left the consulate on the same day he arrived.JUST WATCHED Mystery behind missing Saudi journalist deepens Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mystery behind missing Saudi journalist deepens 03:434. ChinaFirst China denied it was putting people in its far-western Xinjiang region in "re-education camps." Now the government has legalized them . A local law was revised this week to allow for the camps, where people accused of religious extremism are held. Most of the people sent there are Uyghurs -- a Turkic-speaking, largely Muslim minority native to Xinjiang. Human rights groups say China has put hundreds of thousands of Uyghurs in these camps as part of an effort to enforce patriotism and loyalty to Beijing. Survivors of the camps say they're an attempt to "strangle Uyghur culture and stamp out the Muslim faith."JUST WATCHED China denies mass detention of Uyghurs in Xinjiang Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China denies mass detention of Uyghurs in Xinjiang 05:415. US Postal ServiceThe US Postal Service seeks the biggest price jump on stamps in history. It wants to increase the price of a first-class stamp from 50 cents to 55 cents . The agency is getting heat from the Trump administration to do something about its sagging revenues. Its losses have been mounting, dragged down by a drop in overall mail volume because of the internet and a requirement to pre-fund the cost of retiree health benefits. The price hike will have to be OK'd by the Postal Regulatory Commission.The Postal Regulatory Commission will have to approve any price hike by the US Postal Service.This just inEmergency landingAstronauts -- including one from NASA -- on board a Soyuz rocket heading to the International Space Station this morning Astronauts -- including one from NASA -- on board a Soyuz rocket heading to the International Space Station this morning survived an emergency landing following a booster failure, a Russian space official said.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Up and awayWho's up for a 19-hour flight? CNN's Richard Quest is. He's flying from Singapore to New York on the world's longest nonstop flight. Who's up for a 19-hour flight? CNN's Richard Quest is. He's flying from Singapore to New York on the world's longest nonstop flight. Click here for live updatesPhotos: World's longest airline routes Singapore Airlines to reclaim world's longest airline route: On October 11, 2018, Singapore Airlines new Airbus A350-900ULR will go into service between Singapore and New York. The 19-hour trip will become the world's longest non-stop flight route. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: World's longest airline routes Current world's longest nonstop flight: Qatar's Qatar's nonstop flight from Doha to Auckland is the current titleholder. The journey is 17 hours, 30 minutes one-way from Doha, Qatar to Auckland, New Zealand, over a distance of 14,539 kilometers. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: World's longest airline routes Longest route in terms of distance: Air India's flight from Delhi to San Francisco stretches over 15,000 kilometers, making it the current longest route in terms of distance. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: World's longest airline routes Longest nonstop domestic flight: La Réunion-based Air Austral is one of the airlines to operate the longest nonstop domestic airline route from Paris to La Réunion's Roland Garros Airport. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: World's longest airline routes Longest domestic flight with a stop: Air France is the airline that runs the longest domestic flight with a stop -- from Paris to Papeete via Los Angeles. The route is operated on Air France's fleet of Boeing 777s. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: World's longest airline routes Longest domestic flight over contiguous territory: Both Rossiya Airlines and Aeroflot fly from Moscow to Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, a mountainous getaway on the Pacific coast of Russia. The flight takes 8.5 hours and is the longest domestic flight over continuous territory. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: World's longest airline routes Trans-Pacific island-hopper: United Airlines' trans-Pacific island flight hops from Honolulu to the Marshall Islands to Micronesia before finally landing in Guam. The entire itinerary spans more than 14 hours. Hide Caption 7 of 7Weighty decisionIf you're headed to Greece, you might want to get on the scales first. It's banning "overweight" tourists from riding on donkeys there.Hoping for a miracleSad news from Jael Strauss, a former contestant on "America's Next Top Model." She told fans on Facebook Sad news from Jael Strauss, a former contestant on "America's Next Top Model." She told fans on Facebook she has incurable breast cancerSnap TVSeems like everybody has abandoned Snapchat for Instagram. Seems like everybody has abandoned Snapchat for Instagram. Snapchat hopes to win us all back with new original shows.JUST WATCHED Snapchat bets on new shows to win users back Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Snapchat bets on new shows to win users back 02:26AND FINALLY ...