If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Looking for something to spark your entrepreneurial spirit? How about losing a race to Michael Phelps? It worked for this guy. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. US and ChinaChina fired back in the trade war with the US, and Wall Street took the first hit. The Dow dropped 617 points after China announced it was hiking tariffs on $60 billion worth of imported American goods. More than 4,000 US goods are targeted. Most of them now carry tariffs of 25% -- up from 10% when they were first levied last September. These new tariffs are in retaliation for hikes on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods, announced last week. The Trump administration hopes this economic brinkmanship will force the Chinese into cutting a trade deal, but there's no guarantee that's going to happen. China's tariffs will also hit US farmers especially hard, and some farmers are getting nervous. They have a message for President Trump: "This can't go on."2. Planes collideTwo float planes collided in midair in Alaska, killing four people and injuring several others . Ten people were rescued and received medical attention after the collision. Two people are still missing. The passengers on both planes were from a Royal Princess cruise ship. The planes were part of a tour float, and had pontoons, or floats, that enable them to land on water. Police have not identified the victims.3. Robert Kraft caseNew England Patriots owner Robert Kraft has one less thing to worry about. A judge ruled prosecutors cannot use surveillance video in the prostitution solicitation case against him, a key victory for a man who's maintained he did nothing wrong. Kraft was one of dozens of patrons allegedly caught on camera receiving illicit massages at a Florida spa this year. One key piece of evidence in the case against him was the video taken at the spa. But his lawyers challenged the search warrant that allowed authorities to install hidden cameras inside the spa, arguing it violated state law.New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft presided over the franchises three Super Bowl wins between 2001 and 2004.4. Apple rulingIn a major setback for Apple, the Supreme Court ruled that iPhone owners can sue the tech giant for monopolizing its app store. A group of iPhone owners had accused Apple of violating US antitrust rules by not allowing users to get apps from any other source. In its opinion, the Supreme Court said consumers have the right to sue the company because they purchase apps directly from Apple. The ruling could have widespread implications for other tech companies that operate similarly walled-off online storefronts , an expert says.JUST WATCHED iPhone owners can sue Apple over App Store monopoly Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH iPhone owners can sue Apple over App Store monopoly 02:235. Doris DayDoris Day, whose bubbly screen presence and velvety voice made her one of Hollywood's biggest stars, has died. Day starred alongside leading men such as Cary Grant in the 1950s and 1960s, and was one of the biggest voices of her generation. She was also a successful singer and had her first hit as a vocalist during World War II, before making nearly 40 movies in the next two decades.JUST WATCHED Doris Day on her favorite role Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Doris Day on her favorite role 01:27NUMBER OF THE DAYMore than $2 billionThat's what a jury in California awarded a couple who say their cancer was caused by the weed-killer RoundupJUST WATCHED Attorney: Couple thought they could trust Monsanto Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Attorney: Couple thought they could trust Monsanto 02:02BREAKFAST BROWSENeed some lunar Botox?Turns out, the moon is just like some people: as it grows older it's shrinking and developing wrinklesJUST WATCHED Hear them sing 'Strolling on the moon' while on the moon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hear them sing 'Strolling on the moon' while on the moon 03:16Kate without eightKate Gosselin -- you remember her, right? -- is back on TV. This time, instead of trying to manage a family, she's looking for a date.Lowly litterSo what's at the bottom of the Mariana Trench, the deepest spot on Earth? Unknown species? Maybe. A plastic bag and candy wrappers? Unfortunately, yes.JUST WATCHED A young inventor's audacious plan to rid oceans of plastic Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A young inventor's audacious plan to rid oceans of plastic 03:04Age ain't nothing but a numberShaun the Navy Seal was deemed too old to be a New York firefighter. But no worries, because a host of other fire departments have asked him to apply.Special deliveryJust how badly does Amazon want some of its workers to quit? Enough to give them $10,000 and 3 months' salary so they can start their own delivery businesses.One giant leap for ...2024The year NASA plans to land the first woman on the moonTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Wintry conditions for parts of New England Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wintry conditions for parts of New England 01:41AND FINALLYRolling aroundYes, we're well into spring, but there's still snow to be found in Yellowstone National Park. That suits this grizzly bear just fine. (Click to view)One more thingThis is the last thing I'm writing about the Webbys (I promise!). I just wanted to share with you this photo of the 5 Things team (along with other CNN friends) living our best lives and celebrating our two wins last night at the 23rd annual Webby Awards. We couldn't have achieved this success without your support. Thank you!!!