What goes around comes around. Usually when people say that, they mean it as a threat. But, joke's on them! If you're a good person, it just means that good things are coming your way. We've been seeing a lot of those stories lately, where one kind deed either sets off a chain reaction or comes back around to bless everyone tenfold. Whether you're a famous NBA player, a friendly 88-year-old lady or just the anonymous author of a sweet note, this week's Good Stuff goes to show that each little moment of kindness is like a butterfly's wing. One flap, and you can end up moving mountains. (Wow, if we ever get tired of writing newsletters, maybe we could get a job writing weird greeting cards.)Want more inspiring, positive news? Sign up for The Good Stuff , a newsletter for the good in life. It will brighten your inbox every Saturday morning.Our favorites this weekGet going with some of our most popular good news stories of the weekA tattoo for a girl in blueWe've talked about 6-year-old Abigail Arias before. She's the adorable little girl battling a rare cancer who was sworn in earlier this year as an honorary police officer in Freeport, Texas. Well, her story just got sweeter . Abigail is still in the fight of her life, but her love of law enforcement has touched the local police community deeply, especially the owner of a tattoo shop in nearby Houston. Bryan "BK" Klevens owns Prison Break Tattoo, but he's also a narcotics officer with the Houston Police Department. When Abigail's uncle came in to get Abigail's badge number tattooed on him, Klevens was moved by the little girl's story. After all, it intersects with his -- Klevens lost his own sister to cancer, and his tattoo shop serves as a place of support and healing for law officers and first responders. After their time together, it's safe to say there's another member of the Abigail Arias fan club.One kind letter makes countless days betterYou ever have that kind of day where you throw your hands up to the universe and beg for a sign? Not even a big, earth-shaking one -- just any sign to remind you everything's going to be OK. The universe handed 27-year-old Ashley Jost a good one, in the form of a pink piece of paper and a $5 bill. Jost found the note and the money in a self-help book she bought . Whoever wrote the note said they were having a tough time, and they were hoping a little encouragement -- and a $5 treat -- would brighten the random recipient's day. Jost was inspired. She posted the note to social media, where it caught fire, and she committed to doing one random act of kindness every week. Thousands of people chimed in, saying they would do the same. Jost says she has loved reading everyone's good deeds. Ready for a twist? Jost also says the orignal writer of the note in her book, identified only as "Lisa," actually mailed Jost a card to her job, saying how much she loved what Jost had started.A big moment for mother and sonOK, these PICTURES. It's Mother's Day this weekend, and if these pictures don't just scream motherly love, we don't know what does. That's Sharonda Wilson and her son, Stephan. Wilson was looking forward to getting her diploma at her graduation from Ferris State University in Michigan, but chose to attend her son's graduation , held the same day, at Central Michigan University instead. SURPRISE! The two universities found out about Wilson's predicament, and cooked up a last-minute plan. Within hours, Ferris State had arranged for CMU to confer, or issue, Wilson's degree at the same time as her son's. They got to graduate together! This story is literal sunshine. Let's bask in another picture. Amazing.Raise a glass to...Shaquille O'Neal needs no introduction, but he does deserve a hearty Salud! for a recent good deed. The NBA Hall of Famer found out about Zach Keith, a 13-year-old who was struggling to find a pair of dress shoes to fit his size 18 feet. (And if there's anyone who knows something about big feet, it's Shaq, who rocks a size 22). needs no introduction, but he does deserve a hearty Salud! for a recent good deed. The NBA Hall of Famer found out about Zach Keith, a 13-year-old who was struggling to find a pair of dress shoes to fit his size 18 feet. (And if there's anyone who knows something about big feet, it's Shaq, who rocks a size 22). Shaq set the teen up with 10 pairs of shoes from Friedman's Shoes , the baller's favorite shoe store in Atlanta. Oh, why is it his favorite shoe store, you ask? Back in the day, when Shaq was 18 and trying to get to the prom, his dad was having trouble finding penny loafers big enough for his son's feet. The owner of Friedman's Shoes gave teenage Shaq a pair for free, and he's been buying from there ever since.You gotta see thisIf vintage books are your thing, then prepare your eyes for a seafaring feast. A fascinating new publication compiles gorgeous sketches, illustrations and maps from the journals of mariners in the 1800s and 1900s. Think about it: For most regular people at the time, these records were the only information they had about what lay beyond their shores. And judging from this collection, the "beyond" was full of weird fish and outstanding penmanship.Heroes among usRuth Henricks is the newest member of CNN Heroes Class of 2019 , but her story has a sad beginning. About 30 years ago, a man with AIDS frequented her diner, The Huddle, in San Diego. She befriended him and watched with concern as he got weaker and weaker. He eventually stopped coming, and Henricks was devastated when she realized she had no way to find him. The experience inspired her to start a non-profit, Special Delivery San Diego, to bring home-cooked meals to people living with AIDS. Over the years she has expanded her mission to people living with chronic illnesses and other diseases. Her group says it has served nearly 6,000 chronically ill people and made more than 1 million meals to date.Wanna get away?Welcome to the islands of Comoros, on the east coast of Africa in the warm waters of the Indian Ocean. They're also called the "Perfume Isles" because of their history of cultivating plants for scents. Doesn't that just scream luxury getaway? It's hard to believe Comoros is one of the least-visited countries in the world. CNN Travel has a list -- and plenty of beauty shots -- of the restTell us something goodComox, British ColumbiaIs it just me, or are there a lot of stories this week that make you want to sob into your coffee? Tinney Davidson, 88, spent 12 years gracing her neighborhood with warm hellos. She and her husband lived near a high school, and every morning they would wave to students as they passed. She continued the tradition after her husband died, and even formed bonds with some of the students. Davidson is moving into an assisted living home now, so last week hundreds of students walked by her house with flowers and signs, thanking her for her friendship . I am legitimately crying at work over this. People are good, and don't let anyone tell you otherwise.Shameless animal videoThere's always time for cute animal videos. That time is now.Oh sure, when a koala begs for attention and belly rubs, it's adorable, but when I do it I'm "needy" and "not welcome at this Waffle House anymore."Sigh. Koalas have all the fun.