If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Ever heard of "election tourism?" Yes, that's really a thing right now in India. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. TariffsAll eyes will be on Wall Street this morning when the markets open. Stock futures took a nosedive Sunday evening after President Trump renewed tariff threats against China. The Dow dropped by more than 400 points after the President tweeted he would raise tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese goods from the current 10% to 25%. Trump seems to be trying to put pressure on China to finalize a trade deal. Chinese negotiators are set to arrive in Washington on Wednesday to continue talks to hammer out a deal, but now word is that China may cancel them2. IranThe US is sending the USS Abraham Lincoln Carrier Strike Group and a bomber task force to the Middle East. National security adviser John Bolton said this was because of "troubling and escalatory indications and warnings" from Iran. Tensions between the US and Iran have increased recently. The US stopped waivers for some countries to buy Iranian oil and avoid sanctions. It also designated Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist organization.JUST WATCHED US deploying carrier strike group due to Iran actions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US deploying carrier strike group due to Iran actions 01:173. IsraelA ceasefire seems to have taken hold after a weekend of violence between Israel and militant factions in Gaza. Four people in Israel were killed by rocket fire from Gaza. At least 23 people were killed in Gaza after Israel launched airstrikes on more than 300 targets in response. This was the first serious escalation between Israel and Gaza militants since last month's Israeli elections and some of the worst hostilities in recent years.JUST WATCHED Israel defense forces strike dozens of targets in Gaza Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Israel defense forces strike dozens of targets in Gaza 02:234. Russia plane crashAt least 41 people were killed when a Russian passenger jet crash-landed at an airport in Moscow . The plane, Aeroflot flight SU 1492, skidded down the runway with its back section on fire. Passengers escaped the burning aircraft using emergency slides. The flight was traveling from Moscow to Murmansk, a Russian city in the Arctic Circle, when an on-board emergency forced it to turn back. An American citizen was killed in the crash, according to a Russian news agency.JUST WATCHED Russian plane catches fire after bouncing on runway Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Russian plane catches fire after bouncing on runway 00:525. Kentucky DerbyThe Kentucky Derby has seen all sorts of history, but nothing like this. Country House, which crossed the finish line second, was declared the winner of this weekend's race, after first-place finisher Maximum Security was disqualified for interference . It's the first time a Derby winner was disqualified because of a foul on the track. Race officials say Maximum Security appeared to almost make contact with another horse during the home stretch. Maximum Security's owner may appeal the decision. And if you bet on Country House, you're probably getting paid today. The odds on Country House were 65-1.JUST WATCHED Trainer defends Kentucky Derby win via disqualification Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trainer defends Kentucky Derby win via disqualification 01:46BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Winter will continueJUST WATCHED How Cersei became the biggest villain on 'Game of Thrones' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Cersei became the biggest villain on 'Game of Thrones' 01:57Isn't this 2019?A nurse who competed in London's marathon was denied a Guinness World Record because she ran wearing scrubs and pants and not a skirt.JUST WATCHED Woman's outfit causes marathon controversy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman's outfit causes marathon controversy 00:48Now entering the Wu-TangOn your next trip to NYC, you'll have to take a trip to the "Wu-Tang Clan District." Yes, the legendary rappers have a section of Staten Island named for them.Grab the tissuesAdam Sandler gave us all the feels on "SNL" with his touching musical tribute to the late Chris Farley.JUST WATCHED Watch Adam Sandler's emotional tribute to Chris Farley on 'SNL' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch Adam Sandler's emotional tribute to Chris Farley on 'SNL' 01:00'I'm gonna solve 'til I can't no more'There are a lot of remixes of "Old Town Road" out there, but this one by a group of third-graders is the only one you'll need.JUST WATCHED The 'country trap' song that's sparking controversy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The 'country trap' song that's sparking controversy 01:32HAPPENING LATERSomething else for the trophy caseTiger Woods gets a big honor from one of his biggest fans when President Trump awards the legendary golfer the Presidential Medal of Freedom.JUST WATCHED Tiger Woods completes comeback to win Masters Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tiger Woods completes comeback to win Masters 02:09NUMBER OF THE DAY$2 billion"Avengers: Endgame" passed that box office milestone after just 11 days of release. Now the second-highest-grossing film of all time, it's setting its sights on the top film money maker of all time: "Avatar."JUST WATCHED MIT pranksters cover dome with Captain America shield Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH MIT pranksters cover dome with Captain America shield 01:03QUOTE OF THE DAY"I always like to see the good things but not feeling good right now."Diana Ross, complaining about a TSA patdown at New Orleans' airport over the weekend that left her feeling violatedJUST WATCHED Diana Ross: 'It's not what was done but how' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Diana Ross: 'It's not what was done but how' 00:58TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe weather and flooding for the Plains Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe weather and flooding for the Plains 01:37AND FINALLY ...Workout buddy