(CNN) Ten people are dead and a 4 year-old boy remains missing after more than a week of severe weather across the central US that put tens of millions of people at risk.The deadly spring storm system ravaged several states, unleashing more than 170 reported tornadoes , fierce winds, drenching rain, flash flooding and hail.Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest A tornado is seen on the outskirts of Mangum, Oklahoma, on Monday, May 20. At least 21 tornadoes were reported in parts of Texas, Oklahoma, Missouri and Arkansas from early Monday to Tuesday morning, the National Weather Service said -- and more are possible, especially in parts of Missouri and Arkansas. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest A house damaged by a tornado is seen in Mangum, Oklahoma, Tuesday, May 21. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Cattle find refuge on high ground in a flooded field near Geary, Oklahoma, on May 21. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest People push a car after it stalled in rising floodwaters in Oklahoma City on May 20. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Lightning fills the sky over Oklahoma City on May 20. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Lila Metcalf, 20; Manuela Martinez, 19; and Skye Perkins, 19, take shelter in a gas station just off I-35 in Perry, Oklahoma on May 20 as a storm passes through. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest A funnel-shaped cloud passes just south of Perry, Oklahoma on May 20. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest A Phillips 66 gas station near I-35 in Perry, Oklahoma just before a funnel-shaped cloud passed through on Monday, May 20. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Brandon Alexander, 18; and Daniel Brown, 48, are local storm chasers who followed the storm to Perry, Oklahoma. "We've only been doing this for about a year," Brown said May 20. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Tina Michael 30, films severe weather headed for Perry, Oklahoma from a gas station off of I-35 on Monday, May 20. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest A tornado moves through Mangum, Oklahoma. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Scared travelers huddle in the back of a gas station for about 15 minutes as doors shook and heavy winds and rain rattled the small building on Monday, May 20. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest A worker at a gas station checks outside after a storm system passes in Perry, Oklahoma on May 20. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Two people stand outside a gas station in Perry, Oklahoma on Monday, May 20 before a windstorm arrives. Many people took shelter in the gas station. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Scenes of I-35 in Perry, Oklahoma as a storm passes through on Monday, May 20. Hide Caption 15 of 15Saturday marked the tenth day in a row of tornado reports across the US, with two people killed after a possible twister tore through El Reno , Oklahoma.Canadian County Emergency Management Director Andrew Skidmore told CNN early Sunday that officials were still completing the search and rescue and would update numbers as they received them.When asked if they were expecting the death toll to rise, he responded "it's too early to tell."