If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) The most remote hotel on Earth doesn't have cell phone service. But it has plenty of '90s DVDs. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Mueller reportPresident Trump seemed thrilled with the Mueller report. Apparently, his White House wasn't. In a five-page letter , White House lawyer Emmet Flood bashed special counsel Robert Mueller's report on the Russia investigation, calling it a "law school exam paper" and accusing Mueller of playing politics. Flood said Mueller should have made a decision on possible obstruction of justice charges against Trump. The report found no evidence that Trump's 2016 campaign colluded with Russia, but it was inconclusive on whether the President obstructed justice.Meanwhile, House Democrats are still demanding that Attorney General William Barr release the full, unredacted report to them. If he doesn't, they're thinking about holding him in contempt . This is all just adding to the pressure to have Mueller testify before Congress2. ChinaThe Pentagon says China is using espionage to steal secrets to help bulk up its military. A new report says China is using a variety of methods to obtain cutting-edge tech, including "cyber theft and exploitation of private Chinese nationals' access to these technologies." These techniques have helped China obtain military-grade equipment from the US, including aviation and antisubmarine warfare technologies. The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff recently warned Congress that US companies doing business in China were often indirectly benefiting the Chinese military.JUST WATCHED China's push to modernize its military Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China's push to modernize its military 02:263. MeaslesThe doctor on a quarantined cruise ship has asked for 100 doses of the measles vaccine . The ship, owned by the Church of Scientology and with about 300 passengers and crew, left St. Lucia and is returning to its home port in Curaçao. One female crew member has the highly contagious disease. It's not clear when passengers will be allowed off the ship. Meanwhile, officials in New Jersey and Pennsylvania warn of measles exposures. An international traveler with a confirmed case was at Newark Liberty International Airport on March 12. And there may have been an exposure at Pittsburgh International Airport, too. Have questions about the measles? Here are some answers.JUST WATCHED Cruise ship quarantined in port over measles concerns Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cruise ship quarantined in port over measles concerns 00:344. FacebookDon't go looking for Alex Jones, Louis Farrakhan or Milo Yiannopoulos on Facebook. The social media giant kicked them and several other high-profile people off its platform because they're considered "dangerous." Some critics scoffed at Facebook's move, saying it was only doing this to generate some good press and take attention away from its privacy and data-sharing woes.JUST WATCHED Facebook bans some high-profile users Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Facebook bans some high-profile users 02:115. E-scootersCan't wait to hop on an e-scooter? You might want to take a safety course first. A new study found that 1 in 3 injured riders was hurt on their very first ride . And 63% of e-scooter riders had ridden nine times or fewer before their injury. E-scooters, from companies like Lime and Bird, flooded US cities last year, and they're still so new, they hadn't really been studied until now. Researchers say more training may be necessary to ensure the safety of e-scooter riders.JUST WATCHED The age of scooter sharing is upon us Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The age of scooter sharing is upon us 02:33TODAY'S NUMBER1 millionThe number of people evacuated as Tropical Cyclone Fani makes landfall in India. Click here for the latest updates on the storm.JUST WATCHED Watch Cyclone Fani's winds pound India's coast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch Cyclone Fani's winds pound India's coast 01:17BREAKFAST BROWSERIP, ChewieNo one did more with a furry suit and a mighty roar than Peter Mayhew, the 7-foot-tall actor who played Chewbacca in the "Star Wars" movies. He died at age 74JUST WATCHED Peter Mayhew remembers co-star Carrie Fisher (2016) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Peter Mayhew remembers co-star Carrie Fisher (2016) 01:00Prayers answeredIf you end up being swept out to sea, it's got to be some kind of sign when you're rescued by a boat named "Amen."Cool or creepy?Have a secret crush on that cute Facebook friend? One of the social media app's new features just might hook you up.Beyoncé's band?Taylor Swift brought a marching band to the Billboard Music Awards, and the Beyhive freaked out. But Queen Bey's not the first to bring horns to a show.JUST WATCHED See the best moments from the Billboard Music Awards Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See the best moments from the Billboard Music Awards 00:10Not from SwedenHAPPENING LATERJobs, jobs, jobsThe April jobs report is out later this morning. Economists think it will be strong, but they're concerned by signs that indicate hiring is starting to slow down.JUST WATCHED How to read the jobs report Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How to read the jobs report 01:31TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeNASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine warned that these items are a threat to the planet.A. AliensB. MeteorsC. SunspotsD. CometsTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe storms may put a damper on weekend plans Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe storms may put a damper on weekend plans 01:34AND FINALLYI wanna dance with somebody