Get '5 things' in your inbox If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Memorial Day weekend is just around the corner. Here are the 10 best places to go in the US. And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here.)1. Alabama abortion billAlabama lawmakers passed an abortion bill that supporters hope will be sent on a collision course with Roe v. Wade. Votes by the Alabama Senate sent the bill to the governor's desk last night. It's the most restrictive abortion bill in the country and would punish doctors who perform abortions with life in prison. Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey, a Republican, hasn't publicly taken a stance on the bill, but her anti-abortion views are well known. She has six days to sign the bill. If she does, the ACLU and Planned Parenthood say they'll sue, and a court battle is just what the bill's supporters want. They hope it eventually ends up in the Supreme Court and leads to the overturning of Roe v. Wade, the 1973 case that legalized abortion.JUST WATCHED AL Dem. on abortions: 'Kill them now or you kill them later' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH AL Dem. on abortions: 'Kill them now or you kill them later' 01:352. Donald Trump Jr.Looks like Donald Trump Jr. will appear before the Senate Intelligence Committee after all. The committee and Trump Jr. reached a deal for him to testify behind closed doors sometime in mid-June. The committee -- which is still looking into Russia's interference in the 2016 campaign -- had issued a subpoena for Trump Jr. to appear, sparking a huge backlash from President Trump's allies. Trump Jr. will be asked to answer questions about discrepancies between his past testimony and what other witnesses have told the committee and special counsel Robert Mueller, a source told CNN.JUST WATCHED Trump Jr. reaches deal with Senate committee to testify Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump Jr. reaches deal with Senate committee to testify 01:46