(CNN) Here is some background information about the Secret Service, a federal agency tasked with protecting the president of the United States, among many other responsibilities.In addition to protecting the First Family, the Secret Service also provides security for the vice president, the president elect, the vice president elect, former presidents and their families, presidential candidates, visiting heads of state and representatives of the United States performing special missions overseas.Timeline:July 5, 1865 - The Secret Service is established as an investigative unit within the Department of Treasury. At the time, the country was awash with forged currency. The Secret Service is established as an investigative unit within the Department of Treasury. At the time, the country was awash with forged currency. Between one-third and half of the money in circulation was counterfeit, according to some estimates.1867 - The role of the agency expands to include investigations of mail theft, bootlegging, smuggling and fraud.1894 - The Secret Service provides part-time protection for President Grover Cleveland after the agency discovers an assassination plot while probing a group of gamblers.1898 - After the end of the war, Secret Service operatives continue to watch over the White House part time. A White House detail is established to protect President William McKinley during the Spanish-American War. After the end of the war, Secret Service operatives continue to watch over the White House part time.September 6, 1901 - President McKinley is shot and critically wounded during a reception in Buffalo, New York. McKinley dies eight days later and Vice President Theodore Roosevelt is sworn into office. The assassination prompts Congress to request full-time Secret Service protection for presidents.1902 - The Secret Service establishes an around-the-clock White House detail to protect President Roosevelt.1917 - Congress passes a law making it a federal crime to threaten the president.November 1, 1950 - Secret Service officer Leslie Coffelt is gunned down while protecting President Harry S. Truman at the Blair House in Washington. He is the first and only Secret Service member to be killed in the line of duty guarding the president.1968 - After Kennedy is assassinated, the Secret Service offers protection to major presidential candidates.March 30, 1981 - is shot and injured by President Ronald Reagan is shot and injured by John Hinckley Jr. Secret Service Agent Timothy McCarthy is also hit, trying to block Hinckley as he fires at Reagan. Press Secretary James Brady and a Washington police officer are also wounded.1994 - Congress authorizes the Secret Service to help the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. The agency provides forensic and technical assistance.April 19, 1995 - Domestic terrorists Domestic terrorists bomb the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City , which housed a regional Secret Service office. Six agency employees are among the 168 people killed in the attack.October 28, 2014 - The New York Times reports that the DHS investigator overseeing a government probe into the Cartagena prostitute scandal quit his job after authorities in Florida caught him entering the suspected brothel.December 2014 - The review also describes a leadership vacuum within the agency, along with a lack of focus and a need for more training. The panel recommends hiring 85 new agents and 200 uniformed officers to prevent future breaches. A government panel established after a White House intruder incident in September releases a report recommending more effective fencing around the executive mansion. The review also describes a leadership vacuum within the agency, along with a lack of focus and a need for more training. The panel recommends hiring 85 new agents and 200 uniformed officers to prevent future breaches.November 2015-November 2016 - The The Secret Service secures 3,220 2016 campaign stops and screens over three million people during the busy election cycle.March 16, 2016 - including floor plans and the evacuation protocol for Trump Tower, is stolen from a Secret Service agent's car in Brooklyn. A laptop with highly sensitive information, including floor plans and the evacuation protocol for Trump Tower, is stolen from a Secret Service agent's car in Brooklyn.April 13, 2017 - Two law enforcement officials tell CNN that Two law enforcement officials tell CNN that two Secret Service officers were fired over their handling of a March 10 incident in which a White House fence jumper made it to just steps from a main door to the executive mansion.