(CNN) Vicious weather brought damaging tornadoes and heavy rains to areas of the central United States already dealing with floodwaters that prompted scores of water rescues over the past two days.There were at least 30 preliminary reports of tornadoes in the central US on Tuesday, most of the twisters occurring in Kansas and Missouri.Over the past five days there have been 130 tornado reports, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Storm Prediction Center.A tornado warning that included the city of St. Louis ended just after 7 p.m. CDT. St. Louis and other cities were then placed under a severe thunderstorm warning. Forecasters warned of 60 mph winds and penny-sized hail.As the storm passed, St. Louis Mayor Lyda Krewson, who was at an event in city hall, tweeted: "We are all in the basement of City Hall now- memorable evening."The weather service's tornado Twitter feed indicated there were tornado warnings in Illinois, Kansas and Nebraska. There were tornado watches in Illinois and Missouri.The Nebraska State Patrol tweeted a photo a trooper took from behind his car. In the distance a funnel stretches from sky to ground."This tornado crossed Highway 75 just south of Dawson tonight in Richardson County," the agency said. "Trooper Zost had this incredible view. He reports it stayed in a field so not likely much damage to structures, if any."This tornado crossed Highway 75 just south of Dawson tonight in Richardson County.Trooper Zost had this incredible view.He reports it stayed in a field so not likely much damage to structures, if any. #newx #Trooper #CruiserCalendar pic.twitter.com/N6qPrPfoan — NEStatePatrol (@NEStatePatrol) May 22, 2019Scores of water rescuesRescuers pulled people from fast-moving floodwaters in middle Oklahoma and carried them to safety after strong storms swamped the area.In Payne County, home to 82,000 people, emergency responders have conducted more than 30 water rescues, the board of commissioners said in a news release. Between 6 and 8 inches of rain fell Monday, officials said.Floodwater closed parts of Interstate 40 in Canadian County, just west of Oklahoma City, after storms hit late Monday and early Tuesday.In that county, high water was lapping up against homes in a rural area near the community of El Reno on Tuesday morning, and fire departments' swift water rescue teams were using boats to take residents to drier land.Also in the area, video from CNN affiliate KFOR showed a woman clinging to a tree as floodwaters rushed around her. After one rescuer reached her and fastened a line to her, two others pulled her to safety.A man helps a woman who was found clinging to a tree Tuesday morning near El Reno, Oklahoma.Video from CNN affiliate KOCO also showed a team of four firefighters pushing a boat containing four people against a current, up a driveway that had become a stream.One rescued woman, Tammy Flowers, told CNN that she and some relatives tried to leave their farm with a tractor, but it became stuck. Her son stayed behind, she said, hoping to tend to some cattle."It's not good. The water is coming up and it's really deep," she said.Firefighters guide a boat carrying four people against fast-moving floodwaters near El Reno, Oklahoma, on Tuesday morning.More than 40 water rescues had been performed Monday night into Tuesday morning, Canadian County Emergency Management Director Andrew Skidmore said.While rain stopped in that area, severe storms still are expected to rake the central Plains, Missouri, Illinois, Arkansas, and parts of Texas and Louisiana.Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest A tornado is seen on the outskirts of Mangum, Oklahoma, on Monday, May 20. At least 21 tornadoes were reported in parts of Texas, Oklahoma, Missouri and Arkansas from early Monday to Tuesday morning, the National Weather Service said -- and more are possible, especially in parts of Missouri and Arkansas. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest A house damaged by a tornado is seen in Mangum, Oklahoma, Tuesday, May 21. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Cattle find refuge on high ground in a flooded field near Geary, Oklahoma, on May 21. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest People push a car after it stalled in rising floodwaters in Oklahoma City on May 20. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Lightning fills the sky over Oklahoma City on May 20. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Lila Metcalf, 20; Manuela Martinez, 19; and Skye Perkins, 19, take shelter in a gas station just off I-35 in Perry, Oklahoma on May 20 as a storm passes through. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest A funnel-shaped cloud passes just south of Perry, Oklahoma on May 20. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest A Phillips 66 gas station near I-35 in Perry, Oklahoma just before a funnel-shaped cloud passed through on Monday, May 20. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Brandon Alexander, 18; and Daniel Brown, 48, are local storm chasers who followed the storm to Perry, Oklahoma. "We've only been doing this for about a year," Brown said May 20. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Tina Michael 30, films severe weather headed for Perry, Oklahoma from a gas station off of I-35 on Monday, May 20. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest A tornado moves through Mangum, Oklahoma. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Scared travelers huddle in the back of a gas station for about 15 minutes as doors shook and heavy winds and rain rattled the small building on Monday, May 20. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest A worker at a gas station checks outside after a storm system passes in Perry, Oklahoma on May 20. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Two people stand outside a gas station in Perry, Oklahoma on Monday, May 20 before a windstorm arrives. Many people took shelter in the gas station. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: In photos: Severe weather strikes Midwest Scenes of I-35 in Perry, Oklahoma as a storm passes through on Monday, May 20. Hide Caption 15 of 15Residents urged to seek higher groundFlash flood emergencies were declared Monday night and Tuesday morning in the Tulsa area, where more than 6 inches of rain have fallen in some locations this week.@emilyrsutton flooding all over Ponca City. This water is up to the houses. pic.twitter.com/EEnVaTVZ8X — This Is The Deal.... (@michaeldewell) May 20, 2019The National Weather Service in Tulsa urged people in those areas to move to higher ground, with more rain expected."We're seeing reports of flooding and water rescues across (northeast) Oklahoma," state emergency management spokeswoman Keli Cain told CNN.12:29 AM -- The boundary stretches from Seminole southwest to Wichita Falls. North of this boundary we expect heavy rains leading to flooding as well as some small hail and strong winds. South of the boundary we anticipate larger hail, stronger winds, and the chance for tornadoes. pic.twitter.com/g50ZtD9JDc — NWS Norman (@NWSNorman) May 21, 2019That included the community of Hominy, a Tulsa-area community where more than 200 people were evacuated Monday night because of rising water, Cain said.Roads in Ponca City, in northern Oklahoma, have turned into rivers, with the local government urging drivers to stay away from the water.The county emergency manager reported flooding in the city had begun to enter buildings, CNN affiliate KTUL reported. Several roads had also been closed off.Stillwater Public Schools, in northern Oklahoma, announced schools in the district will be closed Tuesday "due to excessive flooding."At least 21 tornadoes were reported in four statesAt least 21 tornadoes were reported in parts of Texas, Oklahoma, Missouri and Arkansas from early Monday to Tuesday morning, the National Weather Service said.In Mangum, near Oklahoma's border with Texas, city officials said a tornado hit a house and ripped the roof off a two-story apartment building, according to KOCOThe police department asked residents to "not get out and drive around.""On top of emergency crews trying to fix power lines and other damage from the tornado," the department said , "the roads are now flooding due to the intense rain.""By trying to check out the weather you are only putting yourself and the crews in further danger."Tornado damage and path visible in fields from outskirts of Mangum, OK #OKWX #Tornado pic.twitter.com/RybNPXaImP — Brian Emfinger (@brianemfinger) May 20, 2019In Missouri, where Gov. Mike Parson declared a state of emergency, winds from a severe storm blew over campers in Wheatland and four people were taken to hospitals.More flooding coming to Plains and MidwestBecause storms have repeatedly hit the same areas recently, a serious flooding threat has developed in the Plains and the Midwest.About six million people were under flood or flash flood watches, including in Oklahoma City and Tulsa; Wichita, Kansas; and Kansas City and St. Louis, Missouri.Serious river flooding -- including along the already swollen Mississippi River -- also is expected in the central US as another 2 to 5 inches of rain are expected to fall over the region in the next few days.