If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) New York to London in 90 minutes or less? An Atlanta-based aerospace company is trying to develop a plane that will make that possible.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Weather2. WashingtonWell, so much for Infrastructure Week. A meeting at the White House about fixing crumbling US bridges, roads and pipes -- the one issue Democrats and the President seemed to be on the same page on -- was pretty much blown up minutes after it started. And, of course, there's finger-pointing about who is at fault. Trump blames House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who had earlier said the President " is engaged in a cover-up ." Pelosi blames Trump, who after cutting short the infrastructure meeting held a hastily-called news conference in the Rose Garden and declared nothing would get done in Washington until Dems drop all their investigations. CNN's Stephen Collinson said Trump's walkout marks a point of no returnJUST WATCHED Trump says he doesn't do cover-ups. Here's proof he has Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump says he doesn't do cover-ups. Here's proof he has 03:343. BotswanaBotswana has dropped its ban on elephant hunting . The southern African nation is home to 130,000 elephants. That's about a third of all elephants on the continent. The ban was put in place five years ago to deter poaching, but local residents complained that elephants have been damaging crops, killing livestock and destroying water supplies. Conservationists have warned that the African elephant could become extinct if it's not protected. Meanwhile, in the neighboring country of Zimbabwe, a ban on hunting buffaloes with bows and arrows has been lifted in a bid to boost tourism and revenue.JUST WATCHED Iconic African elephant population on the brink Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iconic African elephant population on the brink 05:494. Canada and the PhilippinesLooks like the trash tiff between the Philippines and Canada is over. The Canadians agreed to take back 2,450 tons of trash that were shipped to the Philippines in 2013 and 2014. The containers were marked as recyclable plastics, but they really contained other kinds of waste, like newspapers and diapers. Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte was so upset about it, he recalled his country's ambassador to Canada. Now, Canada says it will haul the garbage back across the Pacific and pay the full cost of the operation.5. Artificial intelligence assistantsDo AI assistants like Alexa and Siri perpetuate gender stereotypes ? The United Nations thinks so. The assistants enable the notion that "women are obliging, docile and eager-to-please helpers, available at the touch of a button or with a blunt voice command," says a report by UNESCO, the UN's Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. The report also notes that the assistants -- which are all voiced by women as a default setting -- give passive and polite responses when users make sexually abusive remarks. UNESCO says this problem can be fixed by not making digital assistant voices female by default and programming them to discourage abusive or sexist language.JUST WATCHED Is an Amazon employee listening to you? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is an Amazon employee listening to you? 01:50TODAY'S NUMBERS$300,000That's how much attorney Michael Avenatti is accused of stealing from ex-client Stormy Daniels. A federal grand jury in New York indicted the celebrity lawyer for that and for allegedly trying to extort more than $20 million from Nike. Avenatti told CNN he will be "fully exonerated."JUST WATCHED Avenatti addresses extortion and fraud allegations Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Avenatti addresses extortion and fraud allegations 13:055.2The percentage of new cancer cases in the US in 2015 that were linked to a poor diet, a new study saysBREAKFAST BROWSEMission to MarsYou may never make it to Mars, but your name -- etched on NASA's latest rover -- just might.The robots are comingThanks to Ford, robots can now deliver packages straight to your front door.JUST WATCHED Ford's new robot can deliver packages to your doorstep Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ford's new robot can deliver packages to your doorstep 01:25Mission accomplishedMeet the nurse who graduated from NYU years after he worked there as a janitorFender benderYou can stay in a big hotel, or you can stay in a big hotel shaped exactly like a guitarPhotos: Sneak peek at world's first guitar-shaped hotel Unique stay: It is the world's first guitar-shaped hotel, and it is set to open on October 24 in Hollywood, Florida. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Sneak peek at world's first guitar-shaped hotel Interior life: Guests wanting a break from the outside world will find respite in the luxe rooms. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Sneak peek at world's first guitar-shaped hotel The Oculus: A free show encompassing sound, light, water and choreography, The Oculus will be on view for guests inside the guitar hotel. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Sneak peek at world's first guitar-shaped hotel Hard Rock Live: The build of the multipurpose venue comes at a cost of $125 million. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Sneak peek at world's first guitar-shaped hotel Retail corridor: After gambling -- or instead of -- guests will be able to head to the large, luxury shopping center. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Sneak peek at world's first guitar-shaped hotel Spa sanctuary: No luxury resort would be complete without a spa, and the Hollywood hotel's promises relaxation in stunning surroundings. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Sneak peek at world's first guitar-shaped hotel Rock 'n' roll: Upon opening, Seminole Hard Rock Hollywood will be home to a total of 1,271 luxury guestrooms and suites. Hide Caption 7 of 7'If you don't know, now you know ...'A Brooklyn street will be renamed for the late rapper Notorious B.I.G. on what would have been his 47th birthday.HAPPENING LATERGetting outJohn Walker Lindh, known as the "American Taliban," is set to be released today from a federal prison in Indiana. He was the first US-born detainee in the war on terror and has served 17 years of a 20-year sentence.JUST WATCHED 'American Taliban' to be released from prison Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'American Taliban' to be released from prison 01:48TODAY'S QUOTE"I am getting fed up ..."Jean-Claude Juncker, perhaps speaking for all of us, as he European Commission President, perhaps speaking for all of us, as he describes his feelings about Brexit delaysJUST WATCHED Here's what you need to know about Brexit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's what you need to know about Brexit 03:13AND FINALLYVenomous vittles