Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Atlanta Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan looks to throw the ball during the game against the Denver Broncos at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta on Monday, September 17. Check out the action from Week 2 of the 2012 National Football League season, and look back at the best of Week 1 Hide Caption 1 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Tony Gonzalez of the Atlanta Falcons catches the ball during Monday night's game against the Denver Broncos. Hide Caption 2 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Demaryius Thomas of the Denver Broncos scores a touchdown Monday against the Atlanta Falcons. Hide Caption 3 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Demaryius Thomas, left, and Brandon Stokley of the Denver Broncos celebrate after a touchdown Monday against the Atlanta Falcons. Hide Caption 4 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Dunta Robinson of the Atlanta Falcons breaks up a pass intended for Brandon Stokley of the Denver Broncos in the end zone on Monday. Hide Caption 5 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Running back Michael Turner of the Atlanta Falcons dives on a touchdown attempt in the first quarter against the Denver Broncos on Monday. Hide Caption 6 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Peyton Manning of the Denver Broncos gets ready to start a play during Monday's game against the Atlanta Falcons. Hide Caption 7 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Matt Ryan of the Atlanta Falcons throws the ball against the Denver Broncos on Monday. Hide Caption 8 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Atlanta Falcons wide receiver Julio Jones drops a pass in the end zone on Monday against the Denver Broncos. Hide Caption 9 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Peyton Manning of the Denver Broncos looks to pass in Monday's game against the Atlanta Falcons. Hide Caption 10 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – William Moore of the Atlanta Falcons intercepts a pass intended for Jacob Tamme of the Denver Broncos on Monday. Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning threw three interceptions in the first quarter. Hide Caption 11 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Frank Gore of the San Francisco 49ers carries the ball for a one-yard touchdown run in the second quarter against the Detroit Lions on Sunday, September 16, at Candlestick Park in San Francisco. Hide Caption 12 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Stefan Logan of the Detroit Lions gets tripped up by C.J. Spillman of the San Francisco 49ers during a punt return on Sunday. Hide Caption 13 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Carlos Rogers of the San Francisco 49ers breaks up a pass to Tony Scheffler of the Detroit Lions in the first quarter of Sunday's game. Hide Caption 14 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Vernon Davis and Randy Moss of the San Francisco 49ers celebrate Sunday after Davis caught a 21-yard touchdown pass against the Detroit Lions. Hide Caption 15 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Tight end Vernon Davis of the San Francisco 49ers catches a touchdown pass in front of John Wendling of the Detroit Lions on Sunday. Hide Caption 16 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Running back Jackie Battle of the San Diego Chargers goes over the line of scrimmage for a touchdown Sunday against the Tennessee Titans at Qualcomm Stadium in San Diego. Hide Caption 17 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Isaac Redman of the Pittsburgh Steelers scores a touchdown in the second half against the New York Jets on Sunday at Heinz Field in Pittsburgh. Hide Caption 18 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Wide receiver Malcom Floyd of the San Diego Chargers throws the ball after a reception against the Tennessee Titans on Sunday. Hide Caption 19 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Robert Johnson of the Tennessee Titans, left, tips the ball past the hands of Malcom Floyd of the San Diego Chargers into the hands of Alterraun Verner, right, for an interception on Sunday. Hide Caption 20 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Robert Griffin III of the Washington Redskins lunges over the goal line Sunday for a touchdown against the St. Louis Rams at Edward Jones Dome in St. Louis. Hide Caption 21 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Russell Wilson of the Seattle Seahawks, right, rolls out of the pocket while Marshawn Lynch blocks during Sunday's game against the Dallas Cowboys at CenturyLink Field in Seattle. Hide Caption 22 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Daryl Richardson of the St. Louis Rams fumbles the ball against the Washington Redskins on Sunday. Hide Caption 23 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Tennessee Titans quarterback Jake Locker looks to pass in Sunday's game against the San Diego Chargers. Hide Caption 24 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Tim Tebow of the New York Jets reacts after running for a first down against the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday. Hide Caption 25 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Antonio Brown of the Pittsburgh Steelers makes a catch Sunday against the New York Jets. Hide Caption 26 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – No. 32 Jeron Johnson of the Seattle Seahawks celebrates with No. 41 Byron Maxwell after recovering a blocked punt and returning it for a touchdown against the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday. Hide Caption 27 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Linebacker Malcolm Smith of the Seattle Seahawks blocks a punt by Chris Jones of the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday. Hide Caption 28 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Sam Bradford of the St. Louis Rams passes during Sunday's game against the Washington Redskins. Hide Caption 29 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Mark Sanchez of the New York Jets directs the offense in Sunday's game against the Pittsburgh Steelers. Hide Caption 30 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Robert Quinn of the St. Louis Rams, center, celebrates a sack against the Washington Redskins on Sunday. Hide Caption 31 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Santonio Holmes of the New York Jets celebrates his touchdown in the first half Sunday against the Pittsburgh Steelers. Hide Caption 32 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Robert Griffin III of the Washington Redskins carries the ball over the goal line for a touchdown during Sunday's game against the St. Louis Rams. Hide Caption 33 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Nick Hardwick of the San Diego Chargers, right, reacts to Dante Rosario's touchdown Sunday against Tennessee Titans. Hide Caption 34 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Christian Ponder of the Minnesota Vikings looks to pass against the Indianapolis Colts during Sunday's game at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis. Hide Caption 35 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Leodis McKelvin of the Buffalo Bills returns a punt for a touchdown during Sunday's game against the Kansas City Chiefs at Ralph Wilson Stadium in Orchard Park, New York. Hide Caption 36 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Tight end Anthony Fasano of the Miami Dolphins dives for a touchdown against the Oakland Raiders on Sunday at Sun Life Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida. Hide Caption 37 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Tom Brady of the New England Patriots walks off the field after a failed drive against the Arizona Cardinals in the fourth quarter of Sunday's game at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 38 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Michael Vick of the Philadelphia Eagles runs for a six-yard gain against the Baltimore Ravens on Sunday at Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 39 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Carson Palmer of the Oakland Raiders passes during Sunday's game against the Miami Dolphins. Hide Caption 40 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Owen Daniels of the Houston Texans attempts to catch a pass Sunday against Dwight Lowery of the Jacksonville Jaguars at EverBank Field in Jacksonville, Florida. Hide Caption 41 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Andy Dalton of the Cincinnati Bengals is tackled by Juqua Parker of the Cleveland Browns on Sunday at Paul Brown Stadium in Cincinnati. Hide Caption 42 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Jasper Brinkley, left, and Harrison Smith of the Minnesota Vikings tackle tight end Dwayne Allen of the Indianapolis Colts during the first half of Sunday's game. Hide Caption 43 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Pat McAfee, left, and Adam Vinatieri of the Indianapolis Colts celebrate after Vinatieri made the game-winning 53-yard field goal on Sunday against the Minnesota Vikings. Hide Caption 44 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Running back Ray Rice of the Baltimore Ravens rushes for a long gain against the Philadelphia Eagles during the first half Sunday. Hide Caption 45 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick of the Buffalo Bills throws the ball as he is tackled by Justin Houston of the Kansas City Chiefs on Sunday. Hide Caption 46 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – No. 55 Brandon Spikes of the New England Patriots forces a fumble by No. 34 Ryan Williams of the Arizona Cardinals in the fourth quarter Sunday. Hide Caption 47 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Wide receiver Percy Harvin of the Minnesota Vikings runs the ball while being defended by Antoine Bethea of the Indianapolis Colts on Sunday. Hide Caption 48 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Trent Richardson of the Cleveland Browns flips into the end zone on Sunday at the end of a 32-yard touchdown run in the first half against the Cincinnati Bengals. Hide Caption 49 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Blaine Gabbert of the Jacksonville Jaguars is sacked by Brooks Reed of the Houston Texans during Sunday's game. Hide Caption 50 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – David Diehl of the New York Giants tries to get back to his feet after sustaining an injury against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers during Sunday's game at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey. Hide Caption 51 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Miami Dolphins quarterback Ryan Tannehill throws the ball Sunday against the Oakland Raiders. Hide Caption 52 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Matt Cassel of the Kansas City Chiefs fumbles the ball after being tackled by Alex Carrington of the Buffalo Bills on Sunday. Hide Caption 53 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Josh Freeman hands off to running back Doug Martin of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers during the game against the New York Giants on Sunday. Hide Caption 54 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Defensive tackle Sedrick Ellis of the New Orleans Saints cools down during Sunday's game against the Carolina Panthers at Bank of America Stadium in Charlotte, North Carolina. Hide Caption 55 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – The Kansas City Chiefs face off against the Buffalo Bills on Sunday at Ralph Wilson Stadium in Orchard Park, New York. Hide Caption 56 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Drew Brees of the New Orleans Saints looks to pass against the Carolina Panthers on Sunday. Hide Caption 57 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Aqib Talib of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers breaks up a pass intended for Hakeem Nicks of the New York Giants in the first half on Sunday. Hide Caption 58 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Kevin Kolb of the Arizona Cardinals fumbles the ball into the hands of Mike Adams of the New England Patriots during the game on Sunday. Hide Caption 59 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Cameron Jordan of the New Orleans Saints sacks quarterback Cam Newton of the Carolina Panthers on Sunday. Hide Caption 60 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Jimmy Graham of the New Orleans Saints celebrates Sunday after scoring a touchdown against the Carolina Panthers. Hide Caption 61 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Ryan Tannehill of the Miami Dolphins rushes during a game Sunday against the Oakland Raiders. Hide Caption 62 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Jon Beason of the Carolina Panthers dives to bring down Darren Sproles of the New Orleans Saints on Sunday. Hide Caption 63 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Lawrence Tynes of the New York Giants kicks a field goal in the first half against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Sunday. Hide Caption 64 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Tom Brady of the New England Patriots practices before Sunday's game against the Arizona Cardinals. Hide Caption 65 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Jared Odrick of the Miami Dolphins takes the field for Sunday's game against the Oakland Raiders. Hide Caption 66 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Safety Jerron McMillian of the Green Bay Packers reacts after breaking up a pass intended for tight end Kellen Davis of the Chicago Bears in the third quarter at Lambeau Field on Thursday, September 13, in Green Bay, Wisconsin. Hide Caption 67 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Running back Cedric Benson of the Green Bay Packers is tackled by No. 55 outside linebacker Lance Briggs and No. 21 strong safety Major Wright of the Chicago Bears on Thursday. Hide Caption 68 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Tramon Williams, No. 38, of the Packers intercepts a pass intended for Brandon Marshall of the Chicago Bears on Thursday. Hide Caption 69 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Chicago Bears defensive end Julius Peppers sacks Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers in the first quarter Thursday. Hide Caption 70 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Running back Matt Forte of the Chicago Bears carries the ball Thursday against the Green Bay Packers. Hide Caption 71 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Quarterback Aaron Rodgers looks to pass against the Chicago Bears in the first quarter on Thursday. Hide Caption 72 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Major Wright of the Chicago Bears tackles wide receiver Randall Cobb of the Green Bay Packers on Thursday. Hide Caption 73 of 75Photos: NFL Week 2: The best photos NFL Week 2: The best photos – Tight end Tom Crabtree celebrates his second quarter touchdown Thursday against the Chicago Bears. Hide Caption 74 of 75