Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – The drought had a negative impact on corn in Le Roy, Illinois. Drought occurred in six Plains states between last May and August because moist Gulf of Mexico air "failed to stream northward in late spring," and summer storms were few and stingy with rainfall, said a report by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Hide Caption 1 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – A calf strains for mother's milk as they forage amid dry wheat husks on the Becker farm August 24 in Logan, Kansas. Hide Caption 2 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Farmer Darren Becker sifts through arid topsoil under a ruined crop on the family farm on August 24 in Logan, Kansas. Hide Caption 3 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Rancher Gary Wollert pauses before heading out for work on August 23 near Eads, Colorado. The nation's severe drought has been especially hard on cattlemen. Much of eastern Colorado and virtually all of Nebraska and Kansas are still in extreme or exceptional drought, according to the University of Nebraska's Drought Monitor. Hide Caption 4 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – A billboard, "Jesus in the Wheat," stands alongside Interstate 70 on August 24 in Colby, Kansas. The billboard was erected by local residents Tuffy and Linda Taylor. "We just put it up there to minister," Linda Taylor told the Hays Daily News. Hide Caption 5 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – A boat dock is left high and dry at the Morse Reservoir in Noblesville, Indiana, on August 16, where water depths are significantly lower than average because of a widespread drought. Hide Caption 6 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Fish remains bake in the heat in an area that is usually underwater at the Morse Reservoir in Indiana. Hide Caption 7 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – President Obama inspects a drought-stricken area of Missouri Valley, Iowa, with corn farmer Roger McIntosh on August 13 as he campaigns in the area. Since mid-June, corn prices have risen about 60% because of declining crop yields. Hide Caption 8 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Heat and drought have destroyed corn yields. Hide Caption 9 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – A car kicks up dust as it drives by corn fields on dry dirt road in State Center, Iowa. Hide Caption 10 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Jeremy Tilton adds hay to a feed mixer for cattle he raises on pastureland near Cuba, Illinois. Hide Caption 11 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – A tractor cuts down corn in a field designated as zero-yield on a farm in Vigo County, Indiana, on Tuesday, July 31. The U.S. Department of Agriculture has declared more than half the counties in the country natural disaster areas as drought sears millions of acres of pasture and cropland. Hide Caption 12 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – A field of dead corn sits next to the Lincolnland Agri-Energy ethanol plant in Palestine, Illinois, on Wednesday, July 25. Hide Caption 13 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – An employee stocks dairy products at a supermarket in New York on Wednesday, July 25. The U.S. Department of Agriculture said prices of dairy products like cheese, milk and eggs are expected to rise 2% to 3% because of the drought. Hide Caption 14 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Corn stalks struggle to survive in a drought-stricken farm field on Thursday, July 19, near Oakton, Indiana. The corn and soybean belt in the middle of the nation is experiencing one of the worst droughts in more than five decades. Hide Caption 15 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – A field of corn shows the effects of the drought on a farm near Fritchton, Indiana, on Wednesday, July 17. Hide Caption 16 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Farmer Ed Schoenberg and his son harvest oats early in attempt to salvage their drought damaged crop near Burlington, Wisconsin, on July 17. Hide Caption 17 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Corn is watered with an irrigation system near Fritchton, Indiana, on July 17. Hide Caption 18 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – A single stalk of corn grows in a drought-stricken field near Shawneetown, Illinois, on July 16. Hide Caption 19 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Brown and dry, a field of corn sturggles to survive drought conditions near Uniontown, Kentucky, on July 16. Hide Caption 20 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn examines a drought-damaged ear of corn near Waltonville, Illinois, on July 16. Hide Caption 21 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – A weed grows thorugh the dried and cracked earth where a pond used to br near Ashley, Illinois, on July 16. Hide Caption 22 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Farmer Marion Kujawa looks over a dried-up pond where his cattle used to water, near Ashley, Illinois, on July 16. Kujawa is digging the pond deeper so that the water will last longer in the future. Hide Caption 23 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Farmer Albert Walsh walks through his drought-damaged corn field in Carmi, Illnois, on July 11. Hide Caption 24 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – The drought plaguing the Midwest has taken a harsh toll on America's corn crops, such as this one in Grayville, Illinois. Hide Caption 25 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Swimmers relax in the shallow waters of the Mississippi River at Meeman-Shelby Forest State Park in Tennessee on July 6. Drought conditions have lowered the river's levels considerably from this time last year. Hide Caption 26 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Fish skeletons line the bottom of a drainage ditch in Skelton, Indiana, on July 12. Hide Caption 27 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Soybean seedlings push their way through dry soil in Skelton, Indiana, on July 12. Hide Caption 28 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Cattle graze in a field on July 13 near Paris, Missouri. Many ranchers are rushing to sell off their herds as hay supplies dwindle and feed prices soar. Hide Caption 29 of 31Photos: Photos: Drought ravages Midwest Extreme heat, drought ravage Midwest – Cracked, dry ground marks the area where a pond normally stands in Crossville, Illinois, on July 11. Hide Caption 30 of 31