Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – Mayor Rahm Emanuel greets students as they arrive at Frazier International Magnet School on Wednesday, September 19, in Chicago. Wednesday was the first day back for students and teachers after union representatives voted to suspend the eight-day strike. Hide Caption 1 of 15Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – Students at Frazier International Magnet School wait outside before the start of classes Wednesday. Teachers and students had been out of school since the strike began on September 10. Hide Caption 2 of 15Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – Chicago Teachers Union members picket outside Chicago Public Schools headquarters Tuesday, September 18, as their strike canceled classes for a seventh day. School officials went to court Monday to ask a judge to declare the strike illegal and order the teachers back to work. Union representatives reconvened Tuesday afternoon to discuss a proposed deal. Hide Caption 3 of 15Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – American Federation of Teachers organizer Samantha Jordan, center, carries a box of informational papers for distribution outside of protest locations in Chicago on Tuesday. Hide Caption 4 of 15Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – Striking teachers attend a news conference by the Chicago Teachers Solidarity Campaign outside the office of Mayor Rahm Emanuel in Chicago on Monday, September 17. Emanuel sought court action to force teachers back to work. Hide Caption 5 of 15Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – Chicago teachers and their supporters attend a rally at Union Park on Saturday, September 15. An estimated 25,000 people gathered in the park in a show of solidarity. Hide Caption 6 of 15Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – Strike posters are left on the ground in Union Park on Saturday. More than 26,000 teachers and support staff walked off their jobs on September 10 after the union failed to reach an agreement with the city on compensation, benefits and job security. Hide Caption 7 of 15Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – Chicago Teachers Union President Karen Lewis announces a tentative agreement on Friday, September 14, that could have ended the strike. After extensive debate, the delegates said they wanted more time to discuss the contract with union members. Hide Caption 8 of 15Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – Striking teachers and their supporters march down Michigan Avenue on Thursday, September 13. Hide Caption 9 of 15Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – The protesters march down Michigan Avenue on Thursday. Vocal picketing has taken place in and around the city's schools. Hide Caption 10 of 15Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – An observer shows her support for the march down Michigan Avenue. Hide Caption 11 of 15Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – Students picket with Chicago teachers outside Lane Tech College Prep High School on Tuesday, September 11. Hide Caption 12 of 15Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – Teacher Jillian Connolly helps her daughter, Mary, study math while picketing outside of William H. Wells Community High School on Monday, September 10. Hide Caption 13 of 15Photos: Photos: Chicago teachers strike Chicago teachers strike – Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, right, visits schoolchildren at Woodson Regional Library on Monday. The library is one of 78 public libraries in the city serving as "safe havens" for students who are not in school because of the strike. Hide Caption 14 of 15