If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Looking for a new spot to hang your hat? NASA's spotted some possibly habitable planets a short 31 light-years away.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. PoliticsWhat summer doldrums? So much is going on right now in Washington that the only way to properly handle it is with a lightning round:• The Trump administration is working on a peace deal with the Taliban in Afghanistan that would reduce the number of US troops in the country from about 14,000 to between 8,000 and 9,000 in the coming months. The US is also working to significantly trim personnel at the US embassy in Afghanistan, sources say.• At a rally in Cincinnati, President Trump again took aim at cities run by Democrats and expressed surprise that Dems running for president took more shots at former President Obama than at him during this week's debates.• The Senate passed that massive budget deal that lifts the debt ceiling and prevents automatic spending cuts. Some GOP senators grumbled that the bill does nothing to harness the national debt. Trump has said he'll sign it.JUST WATCHED Here's how much more you may pay with Trump's tariffs Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's how much more you may pay with Trump's tariffs 02:052. US Navy SEALs"We have a problem." This message, written in boldface type, was part of a blistering letter sent from the top US Navy SEAL to the force after several high-profile incidents of alleged misbehavior. Rear Adm. Collin Green gave commanders until Wednesday to detail the problems and offer solutions, according to the letter, obtained exclusively by CNN. An entire SEAL team in Iraq was sent home amid allegations of sexual assault and drinking alcohol during down time. Another SEAL team was accused of abusing cocaine and illicit substances while stationed in Virginia. The incidents are rising to the highest levels of the Pentagon, with Defense Secretary Mark Esper discussing the issue this week with the head of all special operations forces.JUST WATCHED US Navy SEAL team ordered home over alleged misbehavior Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US Navy SEAL team ordered home over alleged misbehavior 01:333. Saudi ArabiaWomen in Saudi Arabia finally have a right that most people take for granted: They can travel independently. Saudi women will be allowed to hold passports and travel abroad without the consent of a male guardian. This significant loosening of Saudi Arabia's notorious restrictions on women comes via an amendment approved yesterday by the Saudi Cabinet. It's the latest of a handful of reforms in the past few years. Women were granted the right to drive in 2017 and cast municipal ballots for the first time in 2015. But harsh restrictions on women remain, including a ban on the mixing of sexes at public events and a requirement that women get a male guardian's permission to get married or divorced.JUST WATCHED First Saudi women receive driver's licenses (2018) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH First Saudi women receive driver's licenses (2018) 00:384. Cyntoia BrownCyntoia Brown is almost free woman. Brown, 31, will be released next week from a Tennessee prison . She has been serving a life sentence for murder in the killing of a Nashville man she said had solicited her for sex. Brown, who was only 16 at the time, said she had been raped and forced into prostitution by a pimp. Then-Gov. Bill Haslam, a Republican, granted her clemency eight months ago. Pressure to release her started building in 2017 after her case caught fire on social media with the viral hashtag #FreeCyntoiaBrown, which was retweeted by celebs like Rihanna and Kim Kardashian. Brown, who earned a college degree while in prison, is reportedly planning to start a nonprofit to help young people after she's released.JUST WATCHED Cyntoia Brown granted clemency after 15 years Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cyntoia Brown granted clemency after 15 years 02:305. Climate crisisJUST WATCHED Heat wave puts iconic landmark in jeopardy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Heat wave puts iconic landmark in jeopardy 01:43BREAKFAST BROWSEWhat's my name?A suspect in a bank robbery in Cleveland made it fairly easy for the cops to catch him. The note he handed to the teller had his name on itDoesn't cut itNational Mustard Day is tomorrow, and you can celebrate by eating (checks notes) ... mustard ice creamGroundhog dayAnother day, another rocket launcher ? Yep. For the second time this week, TSA agents found one in someone's luggage.Out of this worldAn asteroid bigger than the Empire State Building is passing by Earth next week. You (probably) shouldn't worry about it.TODAY'S QUOTE"I am who I am. We will keep doing what we do. The name of my band ain't gonna change."Danny Shirley, lead singer for country rock band Confederate Railroad, which , lead singer for country rock band Confederate Railroad, which lost out on two gigs because of its name and logoTODAY'S NUMBER526The number of teeth found inside the mouth of a 7-year-old boy who had been complaining of jaw painTOTAL RECALLQuiz timeArtists installed these items at the US-Mexico border so children could play together.A. Roller coastersB. SeesawsC. SlidesD. SwingsPlay " Total Recall ," CNN's weekly news quiz, to see if your answer is correct.TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Heavy rain leads to flooding across Florida and the central US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Heavy rain leads to flooding across Florida and the central US 01:44AND FINALLYFastest flyer