If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Want to breathe underwater with artificial gills ? It's closer to reality than you think, thanks to a designer and a 3D printer.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. IsraelA day after Israel barred two Democratic US congresswomen from entering the country, one of them has been granted entry. Israel this morning granted US Rep. Rashida Tlaib's request to enter Israel on humanitarian grounds. She wants to go to the West Bank to visit her family, including her grandmother who is in her 90s. "This could be my last opportunity to see her," Tlaib, who represents a Michigan district, wrote in a letter to Israel's interior minister.Israel yesterday announced the unprecedented step of denying a visit by Tlaib and US Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota after a tweet from President Trump. Trump said Israel would be showing "great weakness" by allowing them to enter the country. Tlaib and Omar have been critical of Israel's policies and have publicly supported a boycott movement against the country. Many Democrats and some Republicans denounced Israel's decision and the President's involvement in it. CNN political analyst Stephen Collinson said Trump's power play puts his political goals over America's interests2. North KoreaTalks between North Korea and the US about the North's nuclear ambitions have yet to restart. Now, the North might start freezing out the South, too. North Korea vowed to cut off talks with South Korea , just after the North this morning fired two short-range ballistic missiles into the sea off its east coast. The North is upset about joint US-South Korean military drills, among other things. A North Korean spokesman called South Korean President Moon Jae-in "impudent" and said his country has "nothing to talk any more with the South Korean authorities." In a speech yesterday, Moon pledged to try to reunify the Korean Peninsula by 2045. The North called that "foolish."JUST WATCHED Trump appears to defend Kim on missile launches Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump appears to defend Kim on missile launches 02:003. Cigarette warning labelsThose warning labels on a pack of cigarettes could become a lot more graphic, if a proposed rule from the FDA goes into effect. The rule would force tobacco companies to place warnings on cigarette packages and ads that would prominently feature color images and contain language describing the health risks of smoking . One warning, paired with a photo of a sick child using an oxygen mask, would stress that tobacco smoke can hurt kids. Another warning, with a picture of a man's surgical scar on his chest, would say smoking can cause heart disease and strokes. If the proposed rule gets final approval, the new warnings would start appearing in 2021. They'd be the most significant change to cigarette labels in the US in 35 years.4. Dale Earnhardt Jr.Dale Earnhardt Jr. and his wife s urvived a fiery plane crash yesterday in Tennessee. The private plane that the retired NASCAR driver was in ran off the runway after it landed at Elizabethton Municipal Airport in the eastern part of the state. Everyone on the plane survived, but Earnhardt did spend a few hours in the hospital. Earnhardt -- or Junior, as racing fans called him -- is one of the most popular drivers in NASCAR history. He survived a fiery car crash 15 years ago during a practice session in California. His father, the late racing legend Dale Earnhardt, was killed in a crash in 2001 during the Daytona 500.JUST WATCHED Dale Earnhardt Jr. survives plane crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dale Earnhardt Jr. survives plane crash 01:355. GreenlandSo, President Trump has brought up buying Greenland from Denmark. But, wait, is Greenland even for sale? Two sources told CNN that Trump repeatedly has talked about buying Greenland , an autonomous Danish territory, and the White House counsel's office has looked into it. It's not clear just how serious Trump is or if the Danish government is even interested in selling the territory. The President's aides are divided, with some thinking this is sound economic strategy, while others have dismissed it as a passing fancy. Greenland is home to Thule Air Base, a US radar and listening post located hundreds of miles north of the Arctic Circle. The US has tried this before, by the way, with alleged attempted purchases of the territory in 1867 and 1946.JUST WATCHED Sources say Trump asked about buying Greenland Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sources say Trump asked about buying Greenland 01:43TODAY'S QUOTES"The assailant's ... blood sample was found to contain cocaine, alprazolam and ethanol."Kent Harshbarger, revealing that the Dayton shooter Montgomery County, Ohio, Coroner, revealing that the Dayton shooter had cocaine in his systemJUST WATCHED Why passing gun control legislation is so hard Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why passing gun control legislation is so hard 05:45"You are concerned about saving your economies ... I'm concerned about saving my people."Enele Sopoaga to Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison after a meeting of Pacific Island nations, Australia and New Zealand on the climate crisis. Australia Tuvalu Prime Ministerto Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison after a meeting of Pacific Island nations, Australia and New Zealand on the climate crisis. Australia thwarted a push by the Pacific Island nations to do more to combat climate change.JUST WATCHED Climate crisis could make this country disappear Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Climate crisis could make this country disappear 04:05BREAKFAST BROWSEBaby boomNot all heroes wear capesThe 30-year-old man with special needs faced an uncertain future, until a teacher from his past took him inSweet mystery meatYou know it's a sure sign of fall when the pumpkin spice madness starts up. This year, they've come up with pumpkin spice Spam . No, really.No jokeJimmy Kimmel mocked the presidential alert system last year in a sketch. That's going to cost ABC hundreds of millions of dollars in fines.TODAY'S NUMBER5,000That's how many feet a woman plunged to the ground after her parachutes failed to open while she was skydiving in Canada. She survived with injuries, including broken vertebrae.TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeSimone Biles made history by landing this difficult move at the US Gymnastics Championships.A. Beam backflipB. Aerial cartwheelC. Triple doubleD. Quadruple frontflipPlay " Total Recall ," CNN's weekly news quiz, to see if your answer is correct.TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe storms hit Midwest and triple digit heat for Southwest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe storms hit Midwest and triple digit heat for Southwest 01:45AND FINALLYHere comes the bride