If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) All eyes will be on Iowa this weekend as the 2020 Democratic candidates descend on the state for soapbox speeches and, of course, some good ol' deep-fried fun at the Iowa State Fair .Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. ImmigrationThe first day of school turned into a nightmare for hundreds of families in Mississippi when 680 people were detained in a record-setting immigration raid . Immigration officers detained undocumented workers at seven food processing plants across the state. Images and video from some of the locations show children sobbing and pleading for their parents' return . Distraught families waited in parking lots for any news of their detained loved ones, and in one city, a local gym opened its doors to children who'd had no one to come home to after their parents had been detained while they were at school. Immigration officials described it as the largest single-state workplace enforcement action in US history. About 270 migrants were released and placed into proceedings before federal immigration courts, leaving at least 377 migrants still in ICE custody.2. White HouseAnother resignation closes out a tumultuous week for the White House. Foreign service officer Chuck Park resigned from the State Department and issued a blistering criticism of President Trump on his way out. In an op-ed for The Washington Post, Park said he could no longer serve in "The Complacent State" and "let career perks silence (his) conscience."JUST WATCHED Mayor to Trump: You could do something Obama couldn't Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mayor to Trump: You could do something Obama couldn't 02:103. Houston shootingJUST WATCHED Two people killed in rush-hour shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Two people killed in rush-hour shooting 01:114. KashmirThe bitter struggle between India and Pakistan over the contested area of Kashmir continues to cast a pall over the region. A near-complete communications blackout in Indian-controlled Kashmir has been imposed in Kashmir after the Indian government's decision earlier this week to scrap the region's special status . Broadband, mobile internet, text messaging and phone service have all been affected, with residents reduced to digging out old radio sets to tune in to the news. It's not just the lack of information going in that makes the situation notable -- it's also the lack of information coming out. Human rights groups warn that the choke hold on communication could effectively prevent the international community from learning of, and responding to, any human rights abuses.JUST WATCHED Here's why Kashmir is so important Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's why Kashmir is so important 02:145. Severe weatherBuckle up, because we could be headed for a busier-than-normal hurricane season. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration announced it expects 10 to 17 named storms, including five to nine hurricanes . Things are predicted to stay quiet for the next couple of weeks, but meteorologists warn the peak of the season is yet to come.In the Eastern Hemisphere, the next dangerous storm is already bearing down on parts of China. The country has issued a Red Alert in anticipation of Typhoon Lekima . As of this morning, the storm had winds upwards of 133 mph, making it the equivalent of a Category 4 hurricane. When Lekima hits, areas along the coast of China will be at risk of heavy rains and flooding.JUST WATCHED What you should know about hurricanes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What you should know about hurricanes 01:07BREAKFAST BROWSEFrontier Airlines offers free flights to people with the last name 'Green' or 'Greene'Apologies to everyone with a middle name of "Green." You were so close!Humans survived off rodents in the last ice ageThe Iowa Cubs will temporarily change their name to the Iowa CaucusesScientists made vodka from Chernobyl's exclusion zone, and they swear it's safe to drinkJUST WATCHED This vodka will be made in Chernobyl Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This vodka will be made in Chernobyl 01:21Cats understand their names and are probably just choosing to ignore you, a study saysTODAY'S QUOTE"It's the hardest week I've ever had in my life. I go out all the time, but not like this."Greg Zanis, who is known for delivering hand-lettered crosses to the families of mass shooting victims, on , who is known for delivering hand-lettered crosses to the families of mass shooting victims, on his visits to El Paso and DaytonTODAY'S NUMBER167The number of people in the US killed last year by West Nile virus , according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It's a small increase from previous years, but it underscores the need for protection against mosquitoes during vulnerable summer months.JUST WATCHED West Nile virus paralyzes Arizona man Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH West Nile virus paralyzes Arizona man 01:28TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Hot and humid air brings triple digit heat to the south Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hot and humid air brings triple digit heat to the south 01:49AND FINALLYLet's end with a smile, shall we?