If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Tropical storm Dorian is churning in the Atlantic and is expected to become a hurricane by Tuesday as it approaches Puerto Rico. Where will it go after that? We can only watch and wait. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. G7 SummitLast week the world waited to see if President Trump was going to upend this year's G7 Summit in France, but it ended up being French President Emmanuel Macron who orchestrated the weekend's most surprising moment . The de facto host of the event, Macron invited Iran's Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif to attend a round of diplomatic talks on Sunday -- unannounced. This created an awkward moment for Trump, who was reportedly surprised by Zarif's appearance. Relations between the US and Iran have been especially tense since Trump unilaterally pulled the US out of a nuclear deal with the country last year. Iran has responded by detaining oil tankers, making threats and demanding the other participants of the agreement do more to make up for the US' absence.Zarif's attendance wasn't the only noteworthy moment of the weekend. Beijing announced new tariffs against the US on Friday, deepening the already abyssal trade war between the two countries. This clearly affected Trump, who then spent the weekend making contradictory comments about his plans for the future of the economic conflict. His mixed messages have sent international markets into a spiral of uncertainty . However, on Monday, Trump put a positive spin on his agenda and said he had received word that China's negotiators are ready to return to trade talks.2. 2020 RaceJUST WATCHED Former Trump supporter Joe Walsh entering 2020 race Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Former Trump supporter Joe Walsh entering 2020 race 02:383. The AmazonJUST WATCHED CNN flies over the Amazon: 'All you can see is death' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN flies over the Amazon: 'All you can see is death' 02:254. Military suicidesThe Air Force is trying to get a handle on a worrying increase in suicides among its members. At least 78 airmen have taken their lives this year, and three airmen have died by suicide since May at one Air Force base alone. That base, Shaw Air Force base in South Carolina, observed an extra day off on Friday as part of a branch-wide initiative to give service members more time off and more opportunities to discuss suicide and mental health. "We lose more airmen to suicide than any other single enemy, even more than combat," Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force Kaleth Wright said in a video message earlier this month.5. Slavery anniversaryThis year marks the 400th anniversary of slavery in America and groups across the country are gathering to reflect on the solemn occasion. This weekend, thousands of people met at Point Comfort in Virginia where the first ship carrying enslaved Africans arrived on British American soil in 1619. The three-day program included talks, prayers and remembrances, and ended with a four-minute series of four bell tolls: One for each century of African American history and culture.JUST WATCHED Commemorating 400 years since arrival of enslaved Africans Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Commemorating 400 years since arrival of enslaved Africans 02:21BREAKFAST BROWSEDisney announces new Star Wars park attractions, major overhaul of EpcotDavid Ortiz posts first photos since being shot in JuneSome fans are furious over the retirement of 29-year-old NFL quarterback Andrew LuckSouthwest agents held 'worst driver's license' contest during flight delayThe Obamas release their summer playlistTODAY'S QUOTE"We've got to do a lot more for those who serve us in the armed forces because right now in America we are not honest about mental health. That's just a truth."TODAY'S NUMBER52,000The number of illegally imported gun parts federal officials say they've seized from two ports in California . The parts arrived illegally from China and had a combined value of more than $378,000. The US has an arms embargo with China, established after the deadly 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy protesters in Tiananmen Square.TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Tropical Strom Dorian tracks toward Puerto Rico Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tropical Strom Dorian tracks toward Puerto Rico 01:40AND FINALLYHow about some serious color therapy?