If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) If you've seen a message going around Instagram warning people about a privacy policy change, don't bother sharing. It's a hoax.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President TrumpDonald Trump's week of unusually controversial and contradictory statements rolls on. The President yesterday told reporters he is "seriously" considering ending US birthright citizenship , even though such a move would face immediate legal challenge and is at odds with Supreme Court precedent and, well, the 14th Amendment. This is far from the first time Trump has talked about ending the process by which babies born in the country automatically become citizens , and such hard-line anti-immigration proposals are popular with his base. What might not play as well? Using messianic language -- about yourself. Speaking to reporters at the White House about trade relations with China, Trump paused and pointed to the heavens, saying, "I'm the chosen one." He'd earlier thanked a conspiracy theorist who described him as being like the King of Israel and said Jews "love him like the second coming of God." He also joked to a group of veterans about giving himself the Medal of Honor, which recognizes the highest levels of military valor.2. Foiled mass shootingsThe aftershocks of this month's mass shootings in Dayton and El Paso continue to reverberate in frightening ways . At least 27 people have been arrested over threats to commit mass attacks since the pair of shootings a few weeks ago. A significant number of these threats have come from teenagers making violent promises from the perceived anonymity of the internet, and several more credible threats were racially motivated: A 35-year-old man was arrested in Seattle after threatening to kill people and calling for the "extermination" of Hispanics, and a self-described white nationalist threatened to attack an Ohio-area Jewish center. After the two shootings in early August, the FBI announced it would ask agency offices nationwide to conduct new threat assessments to hopefully thwart more mass attacks. The agency said in a statement it was concerned extremists would see the attacks as an opportunity to "engage in similar acts of violence."JUST WATCHED Dozens arrested for threatening to commit mass attacks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dozens arrested for threatening to commit mass attacks 02:463. Rudy GiulianiIt appears Rudy Giuliani is still invested in getting the Ukrainian government to investigate President Trump's political enemies. The former New York City mayor said he spoke with a Ukrainian official about 2020 presidential candidate Joe Biden's possible role in that government's dismissal of a prosecutor who investigated Biden's son. Giuliani has directly pursued Ukrainian investigations into American politics for the better part of a year now, although he claims he hasn't done so at Trump's request. As for how that relates to the Biden situation, Giuliani has long been pressuring Ukraine to investigate a 2016 call Biden made to remove a prosecutor who at one point had been investigating a Ukrainian natural gas company connected to Biden's son, Hunter.JUST WATCHED Rudy Giuliani now says he won't make Ukraine trip Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rudy Giuliani now says he won't make Ukraine trip 02:064. Officer shootingsIn the last seven days, there have been several shootings of police spanning five states , from California to Pennsylvania. Luckily, none was fatal, but the cases have caught national attention and demonstrate the range of dangers officers face. The incidents unfolded in varying ways: a routine traffic stop in Texas, a deputy targeted by a sniper in California, a standoff in Missouri and a search warrant execution gone wrong in Illinois. Last week, police serving a narcotics warrant in Philadelphia were ambushed by a barrage of gunfire that left six officers wounded and sparked an eight-hour standoff; the suspect was eventually arrested.JUST WATCHED 6 Philadelphia officers shot during 8-hour standoff Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 6 Philadelphia officers shot during 8-hour standoff 02:185. WildfiresJUST WATCHED Why wildfires are becoming the new normal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why wildfires are becoming the new normal 02:19BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are irked that ex-Trump press secretary Sean Spicer will be on 'Dancing with the Stars'JUST WATCHED Sean Spicer to join 'Dancing with the Stars' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sean Spicer to join 'Dancing with the Stars' 00:52Bird or bunny? Optical illusion stymies the InternetOr at least, the part of the internet that definitely needs glassesThe XFL releases 8 new team names and logosYou could probably tell a lot about a person by which logo they pick as their favorite. ( The Dragons, obviously!A New Hampshire town opened a 50-year-old time capsule to reveal absolutely nothingJUST WATCHED Town opens 50-year-old time capsule, finds nothing inside Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Town opens 50-year-old time capsule, finds nothing inside 01:26Crazy cat ladies are not actually a thing, says studyTODAY'S NUMBER$1 trillionThe federal budget deficit the Congressional Budget Office predicts Americans will be facing in the fiscal year 2020JUST WATCHED Avlon points out hypocrisies coming from GOP on deficit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Avlon points out hypocrisies coming from GOP on deficit 02:57TODAY'S QUOTE"Corporate leaders have a responsibility to protect their employees, their customers and their communities. There should never be any misunderstanding again of what the intention is of someone who walks into Walmart with a gun."Shannon Watts, founder of Moms Demand Action, encouraging companies like Walmart to , founder of Moms Demand Action, encouraging companies like Walmart to stop allowing open carry of firearms in their storesJUST WATCHED Walmart faces backlash over its gun policies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Walmart faces backlash over its gun policies 02:26TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED A taste of autumn arrives for the Northeast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A taste of autumn arrives for the Northeast 01:41AND FINALLYFrom guitars to goals in less than 3 days