If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) So, it seems like that whole "storm Area 51" thing is over. But don't fret if you've already booked a hotel room. You can still go to the Alienstock Festival .Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Hong Kong protestsIt was another night of chaos in Hong Kong . Thousands of anti-government protesters blockaded the main terminal at Hong Kong's airport for a second straight night, temporarily stopping flights. Protesters overran airport security and used luggage carts to set up barricades in front of security checkpoints. They also physically blocked passengers from getting to their flights. In the ensuing clashes between protesters and riot police, six people were hospitalized and five others were arrested. The airport resumed operations this morning, with airport staff seen removing stains and covering up graffiti as passengers arrived. Click here for the latest on the unrest and to find out why demonstrators are still protesting2. Dayton mass shootingPolice in Dayton, Ohio, provided a detailed timeline in the mass shooting there earlier this month. But it doesn't answer the biggest question: why. The 24-year-old shooter arrived in the nightclub district with his sister and a companion. He left them at a bar named Blind Bob's and went to another nightspot, called Ned Peppers, by himself about 30 minutes before he went back to a vehicle, got his gun and started shooting, according to the timeline pieced together from security cameras. Police said there's a "strong possibility" the shooter visited Ned Peppers by himself to case the place. Police also still aren't sure if the shooter targeted his sister and the friend. The shooter knew they were still in the area when he started firing because they had been texting and talking on the phone. Nine people were killed in the attack.JUST WATCHED New videos reveal methodical plan of shooter Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New videos reveal methodical plan of shooter 02:223. US and ChinaThere won't be any new tariffs on Chinese-made consumer goods until December 15 . That means popular items, like toys, cell phones and video game consoles, won't be subject to price hikes possibly caused by the tariffs during the important Christmas shopping season. President Trump, who has used the threat of tariffs as a negotiating tactic, said he made the move to spare consumers pain heading into the holiday season. Wall Street appreciated the move, and stocks surged almost 400 points.JUST WATCHED Why you'll feel the latest round of tariffs Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why you'll feel the latest round of tariffs 02:044. Russia explosionPeople living near a suspected missile accident in Russia won't have to leave their homes after all . Russian officials called off a planned evacuation of a village in the northern part of the country. It's believed an explosion last week involving a nuclear-powered cruise missile caused radiation levels to spike around the small settlement of Nyonoksa. At least five nuclear specialists were killed in the blast. Residents previously had been advised to leave their homes for safety because the military was planning exercises today, but the military drills were canceled.JUST WATCHED Explosion shines new light on secret 'nuclear cities' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Explosion shines new light on secret 'nuclear cities' 02:465. Social media and teensAnother study lays out why social media could be bad for our kids. This study, published yesterday in the journal The Lancet Child & Adolescent Health, says social media use is detrimental to teen girls' mental health because it increases their exposure to bullying and keeps them from more beneficial activities, like sleep and exercise. The study interviewed almost 10,000 children between the ages of 13 and 16 in England.JUST WATCHED Teens' social secrets go deeper than parents think Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Teens' social secrets go deeper than parents think 02:10TODAY'S NUMBER8The number of New York Police Department officers who have died by suicide so far this yearJUST WATCHED NYPD commissioner: I'm scared this will happen again Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NYPD commissioner: I'm scared this will happen again 02:09BREAKFAST BROWSEReunited and it feels so goodCBS and Viacom are back together again, in an all-stock merger of media giants that creates a company with more than $28 billion in revenue.JUST WATCHED Remembering Edward R. Murrow's warning to America Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remembering Edward R. Murrow's warning to America 02:58Trailer timeThe new "Little Women" movie features big star power , with Emma Watson and Saoirse Ronan leading the cast of this latest adaptation of the classic novel.Candid camera?When actress Yvette Nicole Brown appeared in a scene in "Avengers: Endgame," no one was more surprised than she wasJUST WATCHED 'Avengers: Endgame' overtakes 'Avatar' with new box office record Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Avengers: Endgame' overtakes 'Avatar' with new box office record 01:27Fly like a president ...Want to buy Japan's version of Air Force One? It can be yours for a cool $28 million... Tell time like a spyA Rolex watch Sean Connery wore in "Dr. No" goes up for auction today. Sadly, it doesn't feature a laser cutterTHIS JUST IN ...Art argumentA controversial mural depicting images of slavery and dead Native Americans at a San Francisco high school won't be painted over but instead covered with solid panels , the school board there voted.JUST WATCHED Screaming match erupts over vote to remove mural (July) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Screaming match erupts over vote to remove mural (July) 02:47TODAY'S QUOTE"Give me your tired and your poor who can stand on their own two feet and who will not become a public charge."JUST WATCHED Cuccinelli edits Statue of Liberty poem to defend new rule Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cuccinelli edits Statue of Liberty poem to defend new rule 00:54TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Dangerous heat impacts 50 million from West Coast to Southeast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dangerous heat impacts 50 million from West Coast to Southeast 01:34AND FINALLYFeed the need