If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.The trade war between China and the US is still raging on, but how is it affecting other economies and businesses on the global stage ? Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Jeffrey Epstein2. IowaThe 2020 Democrats made their mark on Iowa this weekend, in what was supposed to be a proving ground for the presidential hopefuls. The prospective candidates flipped pork chops at the Iowa State Fair and delivered major speeches, policy proposals -- and gaffes. Despite making a warm impression with voters in the early-voting primary state, Joe Biden also made several errors, referring to "white kids" when he meant "wealthy kids," confusing former British Prime Minister Theresa May with Margaret Thatcher and erroneously stating he was Vice President at the time of last year's Parkland shooting. Gun violence was a major topic for the contenders. In an emotional moment, Democratic candidate Andrew Yang broke down during a town hall on gun violence in Des Moines while talking with a woman who said she lost her daughter to a stray bullet. Sen. Kamala Harris beat back attacks from the NRA over her proposed line of gun reform laws.3. Hong KongThe weeks-long protests flooding Hong Kong have spilled over into Hong Kong's international airport, grounding flights and paralyzing one of Asia's largest air travel hubs . All flights departing from the airport have been canceled, and stranded travelers are saying there are no staff members to give information or assistance. Some incoming flights are also being grounded or diverted. More than 5,000 protesters are camping out in the airport today, and while there are a few individual claims of police brutality floating about, the scene on the ground is reportedly chaotic but not violent.JUST WATCHED Hong Kong airport cancels all departures Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hong Kong airport cancels all departures 02:044. Oslo mosque shootingThe Norwegian capital of Oslo was on edge this weekend after a man opened fire in a nearby mosque on Saturday. No one was killed in the attack and police reported worshipers were able to overpower the assailant , but the incident still raises serious concerns about the spread of radical right-wing rhetoric. On Sunday, police revealed the suspect, a Norwegian man in his 20s, expressed right-wing sympathies online and praised figures like Vidkun Quisling, the leader of Norway under Nazi occupation during World War II. The shooting is being investigated as a "possible act of terrorism." The suspect has also been charged with the murder of a woman found dead in his home shortly after the attack, identified as the man's 17-year-old stepsister.JUST WATCHED Police: Worshipers overpowered shooter in mosque Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police: Worshipers overpowered shooter in mosque 01:425. India monsoonTwo deadly storms have affected thousands of people in Asia, and the danger isn't over yet. More than 150 are dead after heavy monsoon rains in India caused devastating landslides and floods . More than 165,000 others have been forced to evacuate their homes. In China, at least 32 people have died and 16 more are missing after Typhoon Lekima battered the coast . Most of the victims were killed when torrential downpours caused a landslide which blocked a river, sweeping victims into the water.BREAKFAST BROWSESimone Biles became the first woman to land a triple-double during a gymnastics competition this weekendWatching soccer can be good for your healthGuess yelling at the TV for 90 minutes really does burn some caloriesNatural Light is now making hard seltzerFor people who think light beer is just, you know, TOO bold and flavorfulMiley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth reportedly separateWoman regrets taking photo with live octopus that bit her faceJUST WATCHED Woman bitten by octopus while posing for picture Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman bitten by octopus while posing for picture 01:36TODAY'S QUOTE"I understand that the girl is upset and I get that. But her father committed a crime."Mark Morgan, acting commissioner of US Customs and Border Protection, , acting commissioner of US Customs and Border Protection, addressing the emotional video of an 11-year-old girl pleading for the return of her father who was detained in the widespread Mississippi ICE raids last week.TODAY'S NUMBER10,242The number of firearms, as of Sunday, that New Zealand residents have given up since a nationwide buyback program went into effect on July 13. The buyback program is part of the New Zealand government's response to the Christchurch attacks in March, the worst mass shooting in the country's history.TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe storms and excessive heat plague Central US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe storms and excessive heat plague Central US 01:42AND FINALLYIs this real life?