If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Ladies, listen up. A panel of experts has recommended that more women should get tested for the harmful BRCA gene mutations that can increase the risk of certain cancers.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President TrumpThe President has canceled his trip to Denmark with less than two weeks to go because Denmark's Prime Minister, Mette Frederiksen, will not entertain the idea of selling Greenland, an autonomous Danish territory, to the US. Trump mentioned the non-negotiation as the reason for postponing the trip, though he called Denmark a "special country" and promised to reschedule. Trump has brought up buying Greenland , and the White House counsel's office has looked into it. But Frederiksen called the idea "an absurd discussion" and told a local paper, "Greenland is not for sale. Greenland is not Danish. Greenland belongs to Greenland."Elsewhere in the world, Trump raised hackles yesterday after criticizing Jewish Americans who vote for Democrats , saying "it shows either a total lack of knowledge or great disloyalty." The remark led critics to argue the President was politicizing anti-Semitism by flirting with the anti-Semitic trope of "dual loyalty," which questions the loyalty of Jewish citizens.2. ItalyItaly's Prime Minister, Giuseppe Conte, has resigned after losing support from the country's far-right leaders . Conte has been involved in a feud with Interior Minister Matteo Salvini over how much power their movements hold in parliament. Salvini is the leader of the far-right, hardline anti-immigrant League party, and he has called for a new round of elections to re-establish a ruling party majority. Their recent clashes have centered on a Spanish humanitarian ship carrying migrants that has been stranded off the coast of Italy for more than three weeks. Salvini had refused to let the ship dock, despite a court ruling saying the boat should be allowed. Yesterday, an Italian court seized the rescue vessel and ordered all the migrants to disembark after an investigation found health and sanitary conditions on the ship had deteriorated. At least 10 people were reported to have jumped overboard as the vessel languished at sea. Italy's Transport Minister has blamed Spain for the situation, while Spain says Italy "failed to follow the law" in refusing to allow the ship to dock.JUST WATCHED Migrants jump off rescue boat and try to swim to Italy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Migrants jump off rescue boat and try to swim to Italy 01:293. ChinaAn employee of the British consulate in Hong Kong who'd been missing for almost two weeks has been detained in China . Chinese officials said 28-year-old Simon Cheng has been put in administrative detention for 15 days for violating China's Security Administration Punishment Law, which covers offenses deemed too minor to be crimes. Cheng works for a British agency that promotes trade between Scotland and other countries, and is often required to go to mainland China for work. He reportedly traveled from the special administration region of Hong Kong to a border city in mainland China while carrying out his duties. Because he is a Hong Kong citizen, Chinese officials say this was a problem. The situation has the potential to cause serious tension between the UK and China. Top British diplomats they're "extremely concerned" by Cheng's detention and will help his family. Chinese officials say that since Cheng is not a UK citizen, it is a purely Chinese matter.JUST WATCHED Tightening of Hong Kong-Mainland border Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tightening of Hong Kong-Mainland border 00:474. ImmigrationA series of developments could make life even harder for migrants in the US. Trump is expected today to announce a new regulation that would allow migrant families to be detained beyond the 20-day limit for holding children. Administration officials say the move aims to keep families from exploiting the loophole, since they know if they come into the US with children, they will be released sooner. The decision would replace the so-called Flores agreement, which not only limits the detention time of a minor to 20 days but also outlines minimum standards of care for immigrants in detention centers. Speaking of minimum standards of care, US Customs and Border Protection has confirmed it will not vaccinate detained migrants against the flu , even though three children who'd been in US custody died after contracting the flu.JUST WATCHED Guatemalan boy who died in US custody had flu Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Guatemalan boy who died in US custody had flu 02:385. NRAJUST WATCHED CNN host shuts down panelist over background checks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN host shuts down panelist over background checks 02:54BREAKFAST BROWSEA little exotic kinkajou attacked a Florida man in his own homeOf course this would happen to a poor guy from Florida (I was born in Florida, so I'm allowed to say that).JUST WATCHED This hungry kinkajou waited for its moment to pounce Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This hungry kinkajou waited for its moment to pounce 01:05A program to help prisoners learn horticulture skills will be renamed after Bob RossInspiring people with happy little trees, even from the next life. What a legend.Life may have existed on warm, rainy ancient Mars before winter cameJUST WATCHED See what it's like to fly over Mars Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See what it's like to fly over Mars 01:00Dozens of air mattresses blew away in Colorado after an ill-advised outdoor movie eventThe internet is beefing over who has the best chicken sandwich, and it's frankly exhaustingTODAY'S NUMBER78The recommended Fahrenheit temperature, in degrees, at which you should keep your house in the summer, according to a new federal program for energy efficiencyJUST WATCHED To get good sleep, set thermostat at this Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH To get good sleep, set thermostat at this 01:27TODAY'S QUOTE"As a fan of all 3 of these amazing women, I can't wait to watch."Brad Paisley, who was replaced as host of the Country Music Association Awards after 11 years , who was replaced as host of the Country Music Association Awards after 11 years in favor of Reba McEntire and Dolly Parton . The two country legends will join Carrie Underwood, who has shared hosting duties with Paisley for years, for a special edition of the ceremony honoring women in the genre.We're thrilled to announce that @CarrieUnderwood will host this year's #CMAawards with special guest hosts @Reba McEntire & @DollyParton, celebrating legendary women in Country Music! 😍 pic.twitter.com/HFnbHI5KFj — CMA Country Music (@CountryMusic) August 19, 2019TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe storms stretch from Colorado to Maine Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe storms stretch from Colorado to Maine 01:29AND FINALLYBoop. Boop .................. Boop!