Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch President Donald Trump watches as Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy, right, administers the judicial oath to Neil Gorsuch during a White House ceremony on Monday, April 10. Gorsuch was chosen by Trump to replace Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in 2016. Holding the Bible is Gorsuch's wife, Marie Louise. Hide Caption 1 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch Gorsuch was born August 29, 1967, in Denver. Here, his aunt holds him at his baptism. Hide Caption 2 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch This photo provided by the Gorsuch family shows Gorsuch as a boy with his sister Stephanie and one of their grandmothers. Hide Caption 3 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch Groomsmen pose for a photograph with Gorsuch and his wife at their wedding in England in 1996. Hide Caption 4 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch Neil and Marie Louise Gorsuch pose with family members at their daughter's baptism in 2000. Hide Caption 5 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch Gorsuch with his wife. He is described by colleagues and friends as a silver-haired combination of wicked smarts, down-to-earth modesty, disarming warmth and careful deliberation. Hide Caption 6 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch Neil and Marie Louise pose with their children, Emma and Belinda. Hide Caption 7 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch This photo provided by the Gorsuch family shows the judge rowing. Hide Caption 8 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch Gorsuch with Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. Scalia later autographed a copy of the photo. Hide Caption 9 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch Gorsuch and his family on the ski slopes. Gorsuch is an avid skier, fly fisherman and hiker. Hide Caption 10 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch Gorsuch and his wife pose for a photo with their friend Michael Trent and Trent's oldest son during a fishing trip near Granby, Colorado, in September 2008. Gorsuch is godfather to both of the Trent family's sons. Hide Caption 11 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch Gorsuch is sworn in as a member of the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit on November 20, 2006. His wife is holding the Bible. Hide Caption 12 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch President Donald Trump shakes hands with Gorsuch in the East Room of the White House in January 2017. Hide Caption 13 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch Gorsuch, with his wife by his side, listens to Trump announce his Supreme Court nomination. Hide Caption 14 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch US Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, meets with Gorsuch at the Capitol on February 1, 2017. Hide Caption 15 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch Gorsuch faces members of the news media while meeting with US Sen. Joe Manchin, D-West Virginia, on February 1. Hide Caption 16 of 18Photos: Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch Gorsuch arrives for his Capitol Hill meeting with Hatch. A week later, Gorsuch took exception to Trump calling a federal judge in Seattle a "so-called judge" after that judge blocked the President's travel ban. Gorsuch described the President's tweets about the judiciary as "demoralizing" and "disheartening." Hide Caption 17 of 18