If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.If your computer is running Windows 10, do an update immediately. Microsoft says that version has vulnerabilities that could be "wormable."Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Jeffrey EpsteinJeffrey Epstein had " multiple breaks in his neck bones," according to an autopsy performed on the multimillionaire hedge fund manager. People familiar with the autopsy report told the Washington Post the bones broken in Epstein's neck included the hyoid bone, which is near the Adam's apple. This sort of break can happen when a person hangs themselves or dies by strangulation, forensics experts told the Post. The autopsy raises even more questions about how Epstein died. He was found dead over the weekend in his cell in a New York jail. He'd been jailed since last month, awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges.2. EconomyJUST WATCHED CNN reporter on Wall Street: It was a bloodbath Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN reporter on Wall Street: It was a bloodbath 01:233. Philadelphia police officers shotA suspect was taken into custody last night, ending an eight-hour shooting standoff in north Philadelphia that left six police officers wounded . It all started when police went to a row house with a narcotics warrant. Some of the officers were in the kitchen of the house when the shooter began firing and police shot back. The gunman continued firing intermittently at police -- sometimes shooting out of a window -- during the standoff. Some of the officers escaped, but others were trapped in the home with the shooter. They were later rescued by a SWAT team. The wounded officers had non-life threatening injuries and have all been released from the hospital.JUST WATCHED Intense video shows first moments of Philly standoff Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Intense video shows first moments of Philly standoff 03:204. New York child sex abuse lawsuitsMore than 400 lawsuits were filed in New York yesterday as part of a new child sex abuse law in the state. The New York Child Victims Act lets adult survivors of child sexual abuse sue an abuser or a negligent institution, no matter how long ago the abuse took place . The law instituted a one-year period for the filing of lawsuits, which began yesterday. A state court official said so many lawsuits are expected that 45 judges have been set aside to deal with the cases.5. Hong Kong protestsChina has sent large numbers of paramilitary forces close to the border with Hong Kong. CNN teams in the mainland Chinese city of Shenzhen saw uniformed members of the People's Armed Police Force with riot shields and batons, as well as numerous semi-militarized vehicles, stationed at the city's Bay Sports Center yesterday. Many believe the move is intended to send a message to protesters in Hong Kong. The People's Armed Police Force is the 1.5 million-member paramilitary force the government regularly deploys to quell protests within its borders.JUST WATCHED Chinese paramilitary posts near Hong Kong amid protests Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chinese paramilitary posts near Hong Kong amid protests 03:03BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Miracle babyPhoenix was taken off life support at 8 months old and not expected to survive. Now she's about to celebrate her first birthday.Monique Goldring holds baby Phoenix.Someday my prince will comeEx-One Direction singer Harry Styles apparently turned down the role of Prince Eric in the live-action "Little Mermaid," and his fans aren't taking it well at all.Harry Styles speaks at the 2019 Rock & Roll Hall Of Fame Induction Ceremony on March 29, 2019 in New York.Ashley's announcementCongrats to Ashley Graham. The model and her husband took to Instagram to announce she's pregnant with her first child.Ashley Graham attends Harper's BAZAAR Celebration of 'ICONS By Carine Roitfeld' on September 8, 2017 in New York.What about 'a' and 'an'?Can the word "the" be trademarked? Guess we're about to find out because "The" Ohio State University has filed an application to trademark the article.TODAY'S QUOTEWhat if we went back through all the family trees and just pulled those people out that were products of rape and incest? Would there be any population of the world left if we did that?GOP Rep. Steve King of Iowa, defending not allowing exceptions for abortion in cases of rape or incest. Both Democrats and Republicans condemned his bizarre remarks , with many calling for his resignationTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Record breaking heat bakes California and the desert Southwest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Record breaking heat bakes California and the desert Southwest 01:39HAPPENING LATERDropping outJohn Hickenlooper is expected to drop out of the 2020 presidential race today. The former Colorado governor, a moderate voice in a left-leaning Democratic field, could run for the Senate.AND FINALLYFamily food feud