If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) It's officially back-to-school time. But it's a tough time for the 5 million school children who don't have money for supplies. Here's how you can help them .Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Potential mass shootings arrestsAuthorities in three states say they stopped three potential mass shootings over the past few days. All three cases were brought to their attention thanks to tips from the public.In Florida, 25-year-old Tristan Scott Wix was arrested after he sent his ex-girlfriend disturbing text messages in which he allegedly threatened to commit a mass shooting, the Volusia County Sheriff's Office said.In Ohio, 20-year-old James Patrick Reardon was arrested after he allegedly threatened to shoot up a Jewish community center in Youngstown. A video on a social media account belonging to Reardon showed a man firing a gun. The community center was tagged in the video.JUST WATCHED Man arrested for threatening mass shooting in texts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man arrested for threatening mass shooting in texts 00:452. Afghanistan wedding attackEven in a place like Kabul, long-accustomed to such violence, this weekend's suicide bomb attack on a wedding there was a shocker. At least 63 people were killed (and almost 200 injured) after someone detonated an explosive vest at a wedding hall. ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack. All this happens as the US tries to finalize a peace plan with the Taliban that could end America's 18-year-war there. On Sunday President Trump said he didn't want Afghanistan to become a "laboratory for terror."JUST WATCHED How a wedding turned to tragedy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How a wedding turned to tragedy 02:333. Hong Kong protestsAnother weekend, another massive protest in Hong Kong. Hundreds of thousands of people marched through Hong Kong's streets yesterday in the 11th straight weekend of mass anti-government demonstrations. The protest movement has been tested as of late by police bans and threats from the Chinese government. It rained during the marches, so much of the city center turned into a sea of slow moving umbrellas. The protests, which began in June over a now-shelved extradition bill, has since expanded to include calls for greater democracy and government accountability.JUST WATCHED Hong Kong's weekend of peaceful protests Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hong Kong's weekend of peaceful protests 02:564. BrexitThe dreaded no-deal Brexit is staring the UK right in the face -- and a government report leaked to a newspaper predicts it will be as disastrous as everyone fears . The report, printed in The Sunday Times, says the UK will face food, fuel and medicine shortages if it leaves the European Union without a trade deal. It added that the public and businesses were unprepared for a no-deal Brexit. A British official responsible for planning for a no-deal Brexit said the report represents the "worst-case scenario." The UK is due to leave the EU on October 31.JUST WATCHED On GPS: What happens to Britain now? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH On GPS: What happens to Britain now? 02:005. Climate crisisIt's been a hot summer in Alaska. So hot that it's killing large numbers of salmon . One scientist told CNN that she and a group of colleagues on an expedition along the Koyukuk River counted 850 dead salmon, although they estimated the total was likely four to 10 times larger. None of the fish showed signs of lesions, parasites and infections, so the scientists concluded the die-off is connected with the heat wave.JUST WATCHED Why some Alaskan salmon are dying off Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why some Alaskan salmon are dying off 02:16BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Fast and furiousIf you want to roll through the streets of San Francisco like Steve McQueen, now's your chance. The 1968 Ford Mustang GT he drove in "Bullitt" is going up for auctionJUST WATCHED This chase scene changed action movies forever Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This chase scene changed action movies forever 01:08The big chopHe grew his hair out for 15 years. But he cut it all off so he could enlist in the Army and serve his country.'Hotel of Doom'Want to visit the world's tallest unoccupied building ? You'll need to go to North Korea to look inside the Ryugyong Hotel.Men cycle past members of a Socialist Women's Union propaganda troupe performing a dance and music routine in front of the Ryugyong hotel in Pyongyang on March 9, 2019.Later, gatorAlligators swimming across roads and climbing fences ? Maybe humanity should just leave the Sunshine State to those bad boys.JUST WATCHED 7-foot gator makes itself at home in family's pool Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 7-foot gator makes itself at home in family's pool 00:32It's a delicacyIf you happen to be in Cape Town, South Africa you can check out the pop-up restaurant that focuses on insect cuisine . Yeah, you read that right.JUST WATCHED Try dried mealworms at this insect-only restaurant Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Try dried mealworms at this insect-only restaurant 00:10HAPPENING LATERTrial beginsThe "Stand Your Ground" manslaughter trial, in a case involving a shooting that happened after a dispute over a handicap parking spot, starts today in Florida.JUST WATCHED Man charged in 'stand your ground' case Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man charged in 'stand your ground' case 01:52NUMBER OF THE DAY22The number of hearses used to deliver thousands of flower arrangements to the makeshift memorial at the El Paso Walmart. Twenty-two people were killed there in a mass shooting earlier this month.QUOTE OF THE DAY"Greenland is not for sale. Greenland is not Danish. Greenland belongs to Greenland."Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen, reacting to President Trump's interest in buying the autonomous Danish territory.TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe storms and heat impact much of eastern US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe storms and heat impact much of eastern US 01:42AND FINALLY ...Ice, ice baby