If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) The Amazon rainforest is getting a little help from our friends up north. Canada has pledged to send $15 million and water bombers -- a type of aerial firefighting craft -- to help in areas affected by fire.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Opioid rulingA landmark ruling yesterday could map a path forward in the fight against the opioid crisis. An Oklahoma judge ordered pharmaceutical giant Johnson & Johnson to pay $572 million for its role in the state's opioid crisis. It was the first state trial attempting to hold a pharmaceutical company accountable for the widespread opioid epidemic, one that the judge said has hit Oklahoma especially hard. The ruling concluded Johnson & Johnson "engaged in false and misleading marketing of both their drugs and opioids generally." The company plans to appeal.Oklahoma is one of dozens of states suing multiple opioid drugmakers. A federal trial slated for this fall combines nearly 2,000 cases involving cities, counties, communities and tribal lands that accuse opioid makers of contributing to or causing the epidemic2. G7 summitThe G7 wrapped up yesterday, but not before President Trump made several attention-getting moves. First, he skipped a session on climate change , which aids claim was a scheduling conflict. Scheduling or not, the absence underscored his isolated position on an issue the other G7 leaders have consistently made a priority. Then, after days of policy reversal and whiplash sentiments about everything from the Iran deal to the US relationships with China and Russia, Trump held a news conference and addressed his chaotic style of diplomacy. "It's the way I negotiate. It's done me well over the years and it's doing even better for the country, I think," he said. He also concluded that G7 talks , often unpredictable and acrimonious, ended with "tremendous unity."JUST WATCHED Sciutto: Not clear Trump accomplished anything at G7 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sciutto: Not clear Trump accomplished anything at G7 03:313. ChinaBeijing has charged a detained Chinese-Australian author with spying . Yang Hengjun is a former Chinese official and also holds Australian citizenship. The 53-year-old's Australian lawyer says not much has been released about the nature of Yang's alleged crimes, but he finds it hard to believe the writer was doing anything outside his role as a "blogger and democracy activist." The charges against Yang are concerning to Australia and tug at an already-frayed relationship. Australia recently pushed back on what it considers Chinese attempts to influence Australian politics as Beijing continues to attempt to gain power in the South Pacific. China also bristled last year when Australia decided to ban technology by Chinese company Huawei from its 5G mobile networks.4. IndonesiaIndonesia is relocating its capital from the coastal city of Jakarta to a jungle-covered area on the island of Borneo. Jakarta, a densely-populated urban megacenter, is home to more than 10 million people and is quickly sinking into the Java Sea. In fact, it is one of the fastest-sinking cities in the world due to rising sea levels and the over-extraction of groundwater. Of course, moving capital cities isn't easy -- or cheap. The move will cost an estimated 486 trillion rupiah ($34 billion) and take about 10 years. Still, Indonesia's leaders say it is a necessity. "The burden Jakarta is holding right now is too heavy as the center of governance, business, finance, trade and services," President Joko Widodo said.JUST WATCHED Indonesia to build new capital as Jakarta sinks into sea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Indonesia to build new capital as Jakarta sinks into sea 02:135. VMAsJUST WATCHED Watch the best moments from the MTV Video Music Awards Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch the best moments from the MTV Video Music Awards 00:10BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are encouraging others to register to vote while waiting in line for Popeyes chicken sandwichesNOAA gets a few dozen emails every year asking why we don't just bomb hurricanesJUST WATCHED Axios: Trump floated idea of nuking hurricanes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Axios: Trump floated idea of nuking hurricanes 02:18Barcelona beach police are carrying 'clothing emergency kits' for bathers whose clothes get stolenKFC will start testing fried Beyond Meat chickenJUST WATCHED Fake meat is the future. Here's why Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fake meat is the future. Here's why 04:53Starbucks will debut a new pumpkin drink: Pumpkin Cream Cold BrewWhat do those words mean together?! Who cares, give it to us IMMEDIATELYTODAY'S NUMBER3,500The number of donated kidneys the US throws away every year despite a long list of people waiting for transplants, a new study finds. A kidney, especially from a deceased donor, could be discarded if it's too damaged or too old for a transplant.JUST WATCHED Study: Thousands of donated kidneys discarded yearly Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Study: Thousands of donated kidneys discarded yearly 02:11TODAY'S QUOTE"What can I tell you? It's sad. It's sad for him and for Brazilians. I think that Brazilian women are probably ashamed to read that their President has done that."Emmanuel Macron, after Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro French President, after Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro responded positively to a Facebook post insulting Macron's wife . The two leaders are at odds on several fronts, including Macron's call for international talks on the Amazon wildfires.JUST WATCHED CNN flies over the Amazon: 'All you can see is death' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN flies over the Amazon: 'All you can see is death' 02:25TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Dorian expected to strengthen into a hurricane Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dorian expected to strengthen into a hurricane 01:32AND FINALLYStory time!