Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Andrew Yang was one of the earliest candidates to announce a presidential bid for the 2020 election. Hide Caption 1 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Yang was born January 13, 1975, to the parents of Taiwanese immigrants in upstate New York. He has one older brother, Lawrence. On his campaign website, Yang said his dad was a researcher at IBM who generated dozens of patents over his career. His mother was the systems administrator at a local university. Hide Caption 2 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Yang and his brother in another childhood photo. Hide Caption 3 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Yang, left, poses with his parents and brother. He studied economics and political science at Brown University and went to law school at Columbia University. Hide Caption 4 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Yang is greeted by President Barack Obama in a White House reception room in 2012. Yang was among those honored as a "Champion of Change." He started Venture for America, a fellowship program that aims to connect recent college graduates with startups. Hide Caption 5 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Obama meets with Yang and other Champions of Change at the White House. In 2015, Obama named Yang an ambassador for global entrepreneurship. Hide Caption 6 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Yang appears on Bloomberg television in March 2018, months after starting his presidential campaign. He talked on the show about his goal to institute a universal basic income for all American adults. Hide Caption 7 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang In August 2018, Yang takes a selfie with an attendee of the Democratic Wing Ding event in Iowa. Hide Caption 8 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Yang helps man the grill at the Iowa State Fair. Hide Caption 9 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Yang meets with union leaders in Iowa. Hide Caption 10 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Yang and his wife, Evelyn, walk with their two sons. Hide Caption 11 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Yang meets with local Democrats in Sioux City, Iowa, in February 2019. Hide Caption 12 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang "We are undergoing the greatest economic transformation in our history, and we are dealing with it by pretending nothing is happening," Yang wrote in a CNN op-ed in April 2019. Hide Caption 13 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Yang talks to audience members in Washington during a CNN town hall moderated by Ana Cabrera in April 2019. Hide Caption 14 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Yang answers a question during the first Democratic debates in June 2019. Hide Caption 15 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Yang and former Vice President Joe Biden talk backstage at the CNN Democratic debates in July 2019. Hide Caption 16 of 18Photos: In photos: Presidential candidate Andrew Yang Yang enjoys a corn dog at the Iowa State Fair in August 2019. Hide Caption 17 of 18