(CNN) Every county in Florida is under a state of emergency as the state prepares for what may be the strongest hurricane to hit its east coast in nearly three decades.At 105 mph, Dorian is the strongest storm of the Atlantic hurricane season so far. If it makes landfall as a Category 4 storm on Monday as forecast, with sustained winds of around 130 mph, it will be the strongest hurricane to strike Florida's East Coast since Andrew in 1992, according to CNN Meteorologist Brandon Miller. By late Thursday, Dorian was a Category 2 storm.It will also be the fourth year in a row of a hurricane of any strength hitting Florida, the most years in a row since the 1940s.With the devastation of 2018's Hurricane Michael still fresh in their minds, Floridians are not taking any chances.Gov. Ron DeSantis on Thursday declared a state of emergency for all 67 Florida counties. The state has 819,000 gallons of water and 1.8 million meals ready for distribution, he said in a news conference.Warm waters are expected to strengthen the storm over the next few days. It's on track to smack Grand Bahama island on Sunday and likely crash somewhere along the Florida or Georgia coasts around Monday morning.Because it's four days out, the range of potential landfall spots stretches - from the Florida Keys to southeast Georgia. And the center may pause at sea shortly before landfall, leaving its outer bands to drench much of Florida with lots of rain, CNN meteorologist Chad Myers said.The affected areas in the US will feel tropical-storm force winds of at least 39 mph as early as Saturday evening"People have got to be ready before Sunday," Ken Graham, director of the National Hurricane Center, told CNN's "New Day" on Thursday.Floridians are lining up for gas and foodOfficials, including Florida's governor, have urged people to have seven days of food and medicine available -- and coastal residents already are stripping store shelves bare with Dorian in mind.Plenty of people also were stocking up on fuel Thursday along Florida's Atlantic coast. That included Arthur Sanders, who waited in a long line to get gas in Port St. Lucie."They were directing traffic and had part of the parking lot blocked off," Sanders said.In Port Orange, 40 miles northeast of Orlando, Brooke Koontz found shelves of bread and water nearly empty at a Walmart on Wednesday. There were also slim pickings among canned goods, toiletries and bananas, too.Thankfully, soon after she arrived, employees brought out a pallet of water."It was gone in seconds," she told CNN. "People were trying to race."Long lines and low supplies have been seen at several stores in the Miami area, CNN affiliate WSVN reported.States of emergency have been declared in more than 25 Florida counties. Numerous officials are urging residents to get ready."Get water, get gas, get cash out of the ATMs," West Palm Beach Mayor Keith James said on CNN Thursday. "The more we hear about this storm, it sounds like a serious one."Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp told residents of his state to keep their eyes on Dorian, too. On Thursday, Kemp issued a state of emergency for 12 countiesPhotos: Hurricane Dorian Photos: Hurricane Dorian A body is carried out of the Mudd neighborhood in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on Monday, September 9. Hide Caption 1 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Homes are in ruins one week after Dorian hit Marsh Harbour. Hide Caption 2 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A photo album is seen amid the debris in Marsh Harbour on Sunday, September 8. Hide Caption 3 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A damaged home in Hope Town, Bahamas. Hide Caption 4 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A toppled building crane is draped over a new construction project in Halifax, Nova Scotia, on September 9. Hide Caption 5 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Bodies are loaded onto a plane in Marsh Harbour on Saturday, September 7. Hide Caption 6 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This aerial photo, taken on September 7, shows damage at the South Riding Point oil-storage facility in the Bahamas. Hide Caption 7 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boxes of food are loaded onto trucks in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 7. Hide Caption 8 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People reach out for beverages as they await evacuation in Marsh Harbour. Hide Caption 9 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Evacuees from the Bahamas rest on a Royal Caribbean cruise ship after it arrived in Freeport on September 7. The ship delivered thousands of meals and cases of bottled water. Hide Caption 10 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People wait to leave Marsh Harbour on September 7. Hide Caption 11 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Waves crash into boats in Halifax, Nova Scotia, as Hurricane Dorian approached on September 7. Hide Caption 12 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man looks a tree that fell in Moncton, New Brunswick, on September 7. Hide Caption 13 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man surveys damage at the Boardwalk RV Park in Emerald Isle, North Carolina, on Friday, September 6. Hide Caption 14 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Bryan Philips walks with his dog on a flooded road in Salvo, North Carolina, on September 6. Hide Caption 15 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Evacuees wait to leave Marsh Harbour in the Bahamas. Hide Caption 16 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A fallen tree lies on top of a vehicle in Isle of Palms, South Carolina, on September 6. Hide Caption 17 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Schemelda Saintilien walks past debris and damaged houses on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island. Hide Caption 18 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Police Officer Curtis Resor, left, and Sgt. Michael Stephens check a sailboat for occupants in Beaufort, North Carolina, on September 6. Hide Caption 19 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Homes flattened by Hurricane Dorian are seen on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on Thursday, September 5. Hide Caption 20 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Rescue workers recover a body in Marsh Harbour on September 5. Hide Caption 21 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Two men stand amid the destruction in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 5. Hide Caption 22 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A woman from the Bahamas speaks on a cell phone after evacuating on September 5. Hide Caption 23 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A woman battles rain and wind in Charleston, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 24 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Utility crews work on restoring power in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 25 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Rescue workers walk through floodwaters in Little River, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 26 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers try to restore power after a tornado hit Emerald Isle, North Carolina, on September 5. Several tornadoes were reported in the Carolinas. Hide Caption 27 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Emerald Isle employees work to clear a road after a tornado hit. Hide Caption 28 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian An aerial view of Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 5. Hide Caption 29 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian An evacuee rides in a Coast Guard helicopter after being rescued from Treasure Cay, Bahamas, on Wednesday, September 4. Hide Caption 30 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boats are piled up on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on September 4. Hide Caption 31 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Roshane Eyma cries as she is greeted by members of her church on September 4. She had been rescued and flown to Nassau, Bahamas. Hide Caption 32 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Marsh Harbour is seen from above on September 4. Hide Caption 33 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Houses destroyed by Hurricane Dorian are seen on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on September 4. Hide Caption 34 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A resident recovers dishes from his son's home in Pine Bay, Bahamas, on September 4. Hide Caption 35 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian An aerial view of damage on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island. Hide Caption 36 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A child walks past clothes laid out to dry in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 4. Hide Caption 37 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A broken plane rests on the side of a road in Freeport. Hide Caption 38 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Debris litters the Grand Bahama International Airport on September 4. Hide Caption 39 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Volunteers receive relief supplies at the New Providence Community Center in Nassau. Hide Caption 40 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boats, docks and houses are destroyed on the island of Great Abaco. Hide Caption 41 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Braden Vick, right, and Scott Ray run along The Battery in Charleston, South Carolina, on September 4. Hide Caption 42 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Bob Quarles boards up his beach house in Oak Island, North Carolina, on September 4. Hide Caption 43 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A house is surrounded by floodwaters on Grand Bahama island. Hide Caption 44 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Debbie Pagan checks her raised furniture one last time before she and her husband evacuated their home in Tybee Island, Georgia, on September 4. Hide Caption 45 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Mailboxes are taped shut in Charleston on September 4. Hide Caption 46 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This aerial image shows damage on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on Tuesday, September 3. Hide Caption 47 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A family is escorted to a safe zone after being rescued in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 3. Hide Caption 48 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Julia Aylen carries her dog as she wades through waist-deep water near her home in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 49 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Damaged homes are seen in this aerial photograph from the Bahamas on September 3. Hide Caption 50 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Volunteers walk down a flooded road as they work to rescue families near the Casuarina Bridge in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 51 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A car is submerged in Freeport floodwaters on September 3. Hide Caption 52 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Residents wade through a flooded street in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 53 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Eddie Wright and his dog, Vino, wait on a bus to evacuate Brunswick, Georgia. Hide Caption 54 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A house is flooded in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 55 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People gather donations at the Christ Episcopal Church in Miami. Hide Caption 56 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boats are piled up at a Bahamian port on Monday, September 2. Hide Caption 57 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man walks through the rubble left by Hurricane Dorian in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 2. Hide Caption 58 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This September 2 photo provided by NASA shows the eye of Hurricane Dorian as seen from the International Space Station. Hide Caption 59 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Evacuation traffic is seen near South Carolina's coast on September 2. Hide Caption 60 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian US Coast Guard helicopter crews have been helping with search-and-rescue efforts in the Bahamas. Hide Caption 61 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man crosses a street during a downpour in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 62 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This aerial photo shows Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 2. Hide Caption 63 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Agency officials brief Bahamian Prime Minister Hubert Minnis and his cabinet members on September 2. Minnis said many homes, businesses and other buildings have been destroyed or heavily damaged. He called the devastation "unprecedented and extensive." Hide Caption 64 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Businesses are shuttered near Jetty Park in Fort Pierce, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 65 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A boy stands near high surf in Vero Beach, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 66 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This view of the storm was taken from the International Space Station on September 2. Hide Caption 67 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Dorian left heavy damage at this resort in Hope Town, Bahamas. Hide Caption 68 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Waves caused by Dorian crash into a man at the Jupiter Beach Park in Florida on September 2. Hide Caption 69 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Strong winds blow the tops of trees and brush in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 2. Hide Caption 70 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A passenger looks at the flight board at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on September 2. The airport canceled flights and closed because of winds caused by Dorian. Hide Caption 71 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People watch the waves crash onto Vero Beach, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 72 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Clouds loom over a lifeguard tower in Fort Lauderdale on September 2. Hide Caption 73 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Beachgoers watch a man ride a kiteboard in Indialantic, Florida, on Sunday, September 1. Hide Caption 74 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Palm trees blow in strong winds prior to Dorian's landfall in Freeport. Hide Caption 75 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A view outside a car's windshield before Dorian hit Freeport on September 1. Hide Caption 76 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Riverside Mobile Home Park residents Joe Lewis, left, and Rob Chambers work to secure an air conditioner before evacuating the park in Jensen Beach, Florida. Hide Caption 77 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man places a shutter in a window in Lake Worth, Florida. Hide Caption 78 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Passengers arrive at Orlando International Airport on Saturday, August 31. Hide Caption 79 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers install storm shutters in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas. Hide Caption 80 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian NASA employees watch as the Artemis launch tower is rolled back inside a building at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida. Hide Caption 81 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Matt Rohrer loads sandbags in the back of his vehicle in Flagler Beach, Florida, on Friday, August 30. Hide Caption 82 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers at Flamingo Gardens in Davie, Florida, move an Allosaurus statue on August 30. Hide Caption 83 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Shoppers wait in line before sunrise for a Sam's Club store to open in Kissimmee, Florida. Hide Caption 84 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A supervised work crew of female jail prisoners fills sandbags in Titusville, Florida, on Thursday, August 29. Hide Caption 85 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian "Here's a look at #HurricaneDorian from @Space_Station," said astronaut Andrew Morgan, who posted this photo to Twitter. "I caught this shot (August 29) as it traveled across the Caribbean north of Haiti and the Dominican Republic." Hide Caption 86 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Shoppers wait in long lines at a Costco in Davie, Florida, on August 29. Hide Caption 87 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man fills containers with gasoline in Hialeah, Florida, on August 29. Hide Caption 88 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man rides a bike by a Miami Beach building with boarded-up windows on August 29. Hide Caption 89 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Dozens of Orange County residents fill sandbags at Blanchard Park in Orlando on Wednesday, August 28. Hide Caption 90 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Empty shelves at a supermarket in Patillas, Puerto Rico, on August 28. Hide Caption 91 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People stock up with groceries and water in Fort Lauderdale. Hide Caption 92 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Ya Mary Morales and Henry Sustache put plywood over the windows of their home in Yabucoa, Puerto Rico, on August 28. Puerto Rico was ultimately spared the brunt of hurricane-force winds. Hide Caption 93 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers prepare a store's exterior in Humacao, Puerto Rico, on August 28. Hide Caption 94 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Cars line up for fuel at a gas station in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico, on Tuesday, August 27. Hide Caption 95 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Men board up a shop's windows in Boqueron, Puerto Rico, on August 27. Hide Caption 96 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Municipal employees clear debris in Ponce, Puerto Rico, on August 27. Hide Caption 97 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Residents board up a storefront pharmacy in Bridgetown, Barbados, on Monday, August 26. Hide Caption 98 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Residents stand in line at a grocery store in Bridgetown on August 26. Hide Caption 99 of 99Airlines, the military and athletes are adjustingMajor airlines are allowing some passengers to re-book certain flights ahead of Hurricane Dorian, including Delta American and Southwest.The US Navy said it is moving more than 40 planes from Jacksonville to bases in Michigan, Ohio and Texas on Thursday, ensuring Dorian won't reach them.The US Air Force is evacuating 16 KC-135 aircraft from MacDill Air Force Base near Tampa to McConnell Air Force Base near Wichita, Kansas, according to a US Air Force official.Florida State University had been scheduled to play its season-opening game off campus, in Jacksonville near the Atlantic coast. But because Dorian will be approaching, the game has been moved to FSU's normal home field in Tallahassee , further inland.Because Dorian could impact Florida's Kennedy Space Center, NASA has said it will have a crawler-transporter move NASA's mobile launcher Friday from launch pad 39B to the Vehicle Assembly Building about 3.5 miles away. The launcher was being tested on the pad in anticipation of future Space Launch System missionsDorian has cleared the Caribbean Sea, but not before lashing the British and US Virgin Islands -- first as a tropical storm and then as a Category 1 hurricane -- on Wednesday.A satellite image shows Hurricane Dorian shortly after 11 a.m. ET Thursday.