(CNN) One of the nine people killed in a mass shooting in a popular neighborhood in Dayton, Ohio, gave birth to a new child last month. Another recently celebrated his 30th birthday. A 25-year-old man joined colleagues Saturday night to celebrate their work as interns for a cancer treatment center.The gunman's younger sister was also identified by police as one of the victims.As police investigated and a city mourned the carnage Monday, the stories of those killed began to emerge. Relatives wept, remembering loved ones who they will never see again and calling for something to be done in America to stop the bloodshed."I'm lost for words right now. My family's lost for words," said Damon Davenport , who lost two cousins in the shooting. "All they were doing is enjoying a night out on the town, and they're dead. Never to come home again. Never to see their kids again. They're gone."Lois Oglesby, 27Gone is 27-year-old Lois Oglesby who, according to the Washington Post, gave birth to her second child last month."She was a nurse's aide and a very devoted mother," her uncle Joe Oglesby told the Post.Logan Turner, 30Logan Turner celebrated his 30th birthday last Tuesday, his mother told the Dayton Daily News"He was very generous and loving and the world's best son," Danita Turner told the paper. "Everyone loved Logan. He was a happy-go-lucky guy."Oglesby and Turner once attended Sinclair Community College. "We are deeply saddened by the horrific tragedy that struck our community this weekend," school president Steve Johnson said in a written statement. "We grieve for all those impacted by this senseless act of violence."His employer said Turner was the "type of person you just love having work for you."Greg Donson, president of Thaler Machine Co. in Springboro, Ohio, said he was a "fine young man," with a "big smile," and "great personality."Donson said Logan worked at the ultraprecision machine shop and "loved his trade and had a great passion for it.""He will be sorely missed."Nicolas Cumer, 25Nicholas Cumer, 25, was a week away from completing an internship with a cancer treatment center.Nicholas Cumer, 25, was in the Oregon District in Dayton to celebrate the end of his internship with Maple Tree Cancer Alliance. He was one week away from completing his internship at the cancer treatment center.After the internship, he was to graduate from St. Francis University in Pennsylvania with a master's degree in exercise physiology.The Maple Tree Cancer Alliance said it offered him a full-time job last week to run one of its new offices."Nick is remembered for his hard work and dedication to Maple Tree. He loved his patients and served them well, with a loving and caring spirit," the treatment center said in a statement. "He continuously went above and beyond our expectations and worked with a high level of excellence. He was well liked and respected by everyone on our team, and we all will miss him very much."On his Twitter account, Cumer quoted a verse from the Bible's chapter of Romans: "Do not be conformed to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind.""One of my main goals here is to get to know my patients to the level of calling them friends to make them feel welcome when they work with me," Cumer once wrote about his internship, according to St. Francis University.Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton El Dorado High School students attend a ceremony Wednesday, August 7, honoring those who died in the mass shooting in El Paso, Texas. Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Demonstrators in Dayton, Ohio, protest the visit of President Donald Trump on August 7. Trump visited both Dayton and El Paso on Wednesday. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Trump visits a joint operations center to meet with first responders of the El Paso shooting. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Protesters in El Paso hold a sign written in Spanish that reads "Trump you are not welcome" during a rally held to denounce Trump's visit to El Paso. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Democratic presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke, right, joins families in prayer during a visit to a makeshift memorial in El Paso. O'Rourke, a former congressman, is from El Paso. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Trump supporters are escorted away by police after clashing with protesters outside the makeshift memorial in El Paso on Wednesday. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Members of the Apache tribe stand alongside a priest during a vigil in El Paso. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton A "Ban Assault Weapons Now" sign is displayed near a voter registration table in El Paso. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton People pray Monday, August 5, at a makeshift memorial in El Paso. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Doves are seen at El Paso's Horizon High School during a vigil for Javier Rodriguez, a 15-year-old who was killed in the El Paso shooting. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Antonio Basbo holds the cross of his common-law wife, Margie Reckard, who died in the shooting in El Paso. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton A woman kneels Monday at a memorial in Dayton. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton People raise their arms in the air Sunday during a vigil for the El Paso victims. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Mourners gather Sunday at a vigil in Dayton. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Mourners pause for a prayer in Dayton. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Flowers are placed in a bullet hole a few buildings away from where the shooting took place in Dayton. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Mourners pray at a makeshift memorial for the victims of the El Paso shooting. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Mourners gather at a vigil in Dayton. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Doves are released during a memorial service recognizing the victims of the Dayton shooting. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Mourners gather at Sunday's vigil in Dayton. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton A butterfly grips onto Patricia Oliver during an El Paso vigil. Oliver's son, Joaquin, was killed in the Parkland, Florida, school shooting in 2018. Sunday would have been his 19th birthday. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Someone holds up a sign during the vigil in Dayton. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Children participate in an El Paso vigil Sunday. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Edie Hallberg speaks to reporters near the site of the El Paso Walmart where people were killed Saturday. Hallberg's mother, Angie Englisbee, was killed in the shooting. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton People pay their respects to the victims of the El Paso shooting at a makeshift memorial across from the Walmart near the Cielo Vista Mall. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton A flag and letter signed by US Sen. John Cornyn is seen on flowers at a makeshift memorial in El Paso. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton From left, Tiffany McConnell, Tanycia Leonard and Nikita Papillion recall their night in Dayton. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Police conduct their investigation in the parking lot of an El Paso Walmart on Sunday. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Evidence markers sit in a Dayton street on Sunday. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Cristina Zapata and her children pay their respects to the victims of the El Paso shooting. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton O'Rourke speaks to the media on Sunday. O'Rourke lashed out at President Trump during his comments, saying that Trump has been "promoting racism" with his incendiary remarks about immigration. After the El Paso shooting, Trump called the tragedy an "act of cowardice" and said there "are no reasons or excuses that will ever justify killing people." Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Shoes, hats and other items are piled together outside a bar in Dayton on Sunday. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Witnesses comfort one another at the scene in Dayton on Sunday. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Flowers left by mourners lie near the site of the shooting in El Paso. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Bodies are removed from the scene of the mass shooting in Dayton. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Authorities work at the scene in Dayton. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton From left, Samuel Lerma, Arzetta Hodges and Desiree Quintanar attend a vigil in El Paso on Saturday. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Walmart employees react Saturday after the shooting in El Paso. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton A law enforcement officer stands outside the El Paso Walmart. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Shoppers exit the El Paso Walmart with their hands up. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton An El Paso police officer interviews a witness after the shooting. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Kendall Long comforts Kianna Long, who was in the freezer section of the El Paso Walmart during the shooting. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton People gather at MacArthur Elementary School in El Paso, looking for family and friends. The school was being used as a reunification center. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton The El Paso shooting happened on a Saturday morning when the stores were busy with customers. Police said the first call about the shooting came in at 10:39 a.m., and police were on the scene within six minutes. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: In photos: Deadly shootings in El Paso and Dayton Police speak to witnesses at a nearby Sam's Club in El Paso. Hide Caption 45 of 45Cumer was a member of the university's marching band. "The loss of Nick has left a hole in his family, our campus, our band family, and in each one of us who were fortunate enough to get to know him and call him our friend," said Dan Atwood, the band director.The treatment center said two other employees were wounded in the attack but are expected to recover. The center asked for people to "take a moment today to appreciate the gifts this life has to offer. Be present. Smile at a stranger. Do a random act of kindness. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good."Thomas McNichols, 25Thomas McNichols was a father of four children.Thomas McNichols, a 25-year-old who went by T.J., was a father of four children ranging in age from 2 to 8. His family remembered him as a "gentle giant," always there for his kids."I will tell his kids that they had an amazing dad," said his aunt, Donna Johnson."We're just always going to honor his memory with love."His cousin Jevin Lamar said, "He was an amazing brother and a great father, very kind. He was the gentle giant."Derrick Fudge, 57Derrick Fudge was in Dayton's Oregon District to have a fun night with family.Derrick Fudge, 57, was out to have a fun night with family when he was fatally shot after stepping outside of a club to get some food, his family said.Twyla Southall told WHIO that Fudge was a father and had a dog named Lucy that he "absolutely loved.""He was a good man and loved his family," Southall said.Beatrice N. Warren-Curtis, 36, and Monica E. Brickhouse, 39Beatrice N. Warren-Curtis, 36, and Monica E. Brickhouse, 39, were out together when they were gunned down. Tonya Amos wrote a powerful note on Facebook , remembering both women as "like two of my work daughters.""I had the opportunity to manage and mentor them for some years. We sat beside each other everyday," Amos wrote . "We have laughed and cried together. Shared life stories and supported each other. These two ladies were very special to me. I'm sad and mad at this senseless loss. I cannot imagine how their families feel if I'm feeling this way."JUST WATCHED Remembering the victims of the horrific attacks in El Paso & Dayton Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remembering the victims of the horrific attacks in El Paso & Dayton 01:06Amos told CNN she worked with both women at health insurance giant Anthem. She met Warren-Curtis in 2012 and Brickhouse in 2014. "I looked at them as daughters," she said. "Monica was a mom and had a young son. I used to share parenting tips with her. Beatrice never had kids but was a good person. Outside of work, we had celebrations, birthdays, girls' night."She said the three of them left their old department in 2016 and had not worked directly together since then, but had stayed in touch."They were my top performers. They helped train new associates and built a lot of positive relationships," she said. "They were bright and vibrant young ladies."News of their deaths has left her shaken. "I woke up Sunday morning to text messages and I just couldn't believe it," Amos said. "I was devastated. My heart just broke for the two of them and their families."Anthem said both women were associates who served on the company's research, recoveries and adjustments team. "We are deeply saddened by this tragedy," the insurer said. "Monica and Beatrice were not only co-workers, but dear friends, and valuable members of the Anthem team."Saeed Saleh, 38Saeed Saleh, 38, was identified by police as another of the fatal victims. Less was known about him, but the Dayton newspaper reported that he was originally from the east African country of Eritrea.Police said one of the first victims in the shooting was the gunman's sister, 22-year-old Megan Betts. She was a student at Wright State University who hoped to graduate in 2020 with a degree in earth and environmental sciences.Megan BettsPolice said Megan Betts, 22, the sister of the gunman, was one of the first victims shot in the Dayton shooting.Megan Betts had recently interned at the Smokejumper Visitor Center in Missoula County, Montana, the "largest smokejumper base in the country."She was responsible for daily public tours at the center during her six-week internship, said Dan Hottle with the US Forest Service.Her brother, Connor Betts, 24, was killed by police less than 30 seconds after he opened fire. Police did not detail the Betts siblings' relationship. But police said the two arrived together with a companion but separated at some point.The companion suffered a gunshot wound to the lower torso and is still being treated at the hospital, Dayton Police Chief Richard Biehl told reporters. The police chief said there is "more conversation needed" with the companion to understand more of what the relationships were.