Where's the most beautiful place you've ever been? Was it a remote shore with a pink and purple sunset sinking into the water? An ancient red rock canyon or a serene mountaintop escape? Maybe it's just that trail down the street from your house, or the secret hometown hangout where your childhood memories were made. It doesn't need to be fancy to be beautiful -- some days I think the most beautiful place I've ever been is the dock of the Half Shell Raw Bar in Key West. Hey, never underestimate the power of a Florida sunset and a perfectly-made slice of key lime pie.Our favorites this weekGet going with some of our most popular good news stories of the weekThe best road trip everDo you ever come a across a story and swear it was specifically engineered in a lab somewhere to pluck every single heartstring you have? That's how we feel about Grandma Joy's Road Trip, a grandson and grandmother's epic quest to visit all 61 national parks across the country . Brad Ryan thought of the idea when his 89-year-old grandmother mentioned she had never seen the mountains or the ocean and expressed disappointment in not taking more trips in her life. The mountain problem was solved easily with a jaunt to the Great Smoky Mountains, America's most-visited national park. But Ryan wanted to show his grandmother more. Now, with some help from a GoFundMe, they're taking in the sights from sea to shining sea. Their Instagram account of the journey has attracted thousands of fans , and it's easy to see why. Every photo of Grandma Joy beaming in front of the shore or a magnificent forest is somehow purer than the last. It's a fool-proof antidote to a bad mood.A life full of firstsIt's heartbreaking to think about. Chris Barrington, a 30-year-old with special needs was found wandering along a road in Gatesville, Texas, a few months ago. Barrington functions at the level of a 6-year-old and sadly, his father was battling late-stage leukemia and couldn't take care of him. Law enforcement officers couldn't locate any immediate family members, but Barrington did give them one name: His teacher from junior high school, Michell Girard. Why Girard? No one knows; the teacher hadn't seen her former student in years. But a conversation with authorities moved her to do the incredible . "I said, 'What happens if I don't take him? Will he get in a group home?' They said, 'No he'll go in to an institution,'" she recalls. "I said, 'Not on my watch he's not.'" Girard took Barrington in, and after his father passed away, she applied for guardianship. Now, Barrington is living what Girard calls a year full of firsts: She threw him is first birthday party, and he recently went on his first boat ride.What was lost is found againThirty years ago, Joe Meyer lost his very first deputy badge on the side of a gravel road in Nisswa, Minnesota. Now a captain in the department, Meyer says he sometimes thought about the badge, his first big career achievement, but knew it was long gone. At least he thought it was, until two brothers spotted something shining in the dirt while riding their bikes on that very same — now paved — road just last week. It was Meyer's badge, a little worse for the wear but still clearly bearing Meyer's name on the Crown Wing County shield. It didn't take long for their family to get in contact with Meyer and arrange a long-overdue reunion. "It was a little bit emotional for me, just because of the significance of that badge, and to have it returned to me by two young boys meant a lot," Meyer said.Raise a glass to...Mo Salah, one of the Premier League's biggest stars and, it turns out, a really, really good sport. Two young brothers were trying to get pictures of their idols outside of Liverpool's Melwood Training Ground last weekend when one of the boys saw Salah's car and raced after it and -- whoops! Plowed straight into a lamp post. Salah turned around and hopped out to check on the boy, and ended up giving a few hugs and posing for a few photos. The boy's stepfather tweeted out a sweet note of thanks. "He loves you so much and the pain went away instantly when you came to give them a hug," he wrote, calling Salah a "top man and a true gent." We just can't get over that poor boy's face. So much pain and so much joy in one expression!@MoSalah thank you for coming back to check on my boys after Louis KO'd himself trying to get a wave! He loves you so much and the pain went away instantly when you came to give them a hug. A nose reset worth well worth it he said. You are a top man and a true gent! #EgyptianKing pic.twitter.com/wrmHc4vxB9 — Joe Cooper 🐺 (@joecooper93) August 10, 2019Heroes among usMeet CNN Hero Roger Montoya , an artist whose nonprofit, Moving Arts Española, provides classes, free meals, tutoring and support to more than 5,000 children and youth living through the opioid crisis. Montoya worked as a professional dancer in New York, but by the late 1980s, he was HIV-positive and had lost his partner and many friends to AIDS. Returning to New Mexico, he felt like he was coming home to die. Instead, he found new life through pursuing his creative passions. Now his organization helps young people explore creative pursuits like gymnastics, circus arts, fashion design, singing, violin, ballet and hip hop. The idea is to equip them with the positive energy and sense of purpose they need to handle life's challenges. "Art is medicine," Montoya says.Wanna get away?Let the sun shine in! It's sunflower season in some parts of the country, including North Dakota where a sunflower super bloom has blanketed thousands of acres in sunny yellow. Did you know sunflower tourism is actually a huge thing? Blame Instagram -- no really. Farm owners and national park workers say people have been flocking to sunflower fields in recent years to take photos with the trendy blooms.Tell us something goodHouston, TXAs a two-time breast cancer survivor, Nancy Riviere (second from right, above) knows all the ways a cancer battle can wear someone down. She also knows that, in between tests and treatments and side effects, it's easy for people to lose their sense of self. Her nonprofit organization Wig Out provides high-quality wigs to women (and men) going through cancer treatments so they can reclaim a little bit of what makes them, well, them. But it's more than just a great hairstyle. "We're taking care of the emotional impact of the cancer diagnosis and putting together the tools to restore people's confidence and give them the dignity they need to make it through," she says. Riviere and her team have provided wigs and head coverings to more than 300 patients around the country, as well as moral support and even advice for dealing with the side effects of cancer treatments. "I love what I do," she says. "Cancer treatments can leave people feeling so vulnerable, and it's just an honor to help put these women back together."Thank you to Donna Lane for sharing this story.Impact your worldBack-to-school is an exciting time, but for the 15 million children living in poverty, it can also be a season racked with anxiety. After all, school supplies can get expensive. If you want to help brighten a child's school year, there are lots of programs and organizations just waiting for your donations. Here's a list to start you offShameless animal videoThere's always time for cute animal videos. That time is now.Oh, to be an otter, floating around with our little tummies out, holding hands with our otter BFFs. That's the life. Yes, cute animal connoisseurs will recognize this one — it's probably the most famous otters-holding-hands video out there (and trust us, it's a whole genre).