After " Black in America: The New Promised Land -- Silicon Valley " aired Sunday night, viewers took to Twitter, Facebook and CNN.com to react and answer: Is Silicon Valley a meritocracy?Here is how you responded:DerrickmLane said, "If tonight's #BlackInAmerica didn't say anything else, it shows that there is opportunity. Will you take advantage of it?"RauhmelFoxCEO said, "#BlackInAmerica most memorable quote: NO WHACK DEMOS -- Navarrow Wright @navarrowwright"David Jackson said, "I have enjoyed technology all my life; I remember you Soledad on the old 'Know Zone' show in which I still have that Robotic episode on tape. Looking at many of these great comments I see we have the vision and the voice; Thanks for giving a enlightenment. Silicon Valley has room for us also."Geanie Asante said, "Thank you for showcasing the story of being black on Silicon Valley. I consider myself to be one of the few women of color in Technology here and felt I had to pursue a doctoral degree in order to be taken seriously. It is indeed a different playing field."Rennie said, "Having worked and lived in Silicon Valley (I still work here) I can actually say that Silicon Valley is very diverse. There are a large number of Asians that work here mostly from the Indian Subcontinent and the Far East. I am black and I don't feel like a minority because everyone out here in California is a minority. As a matter of fact, as of a few years ago, white people became the largest minority in California and the Silicon Valley."owasow said, "If we want more of #BlackinAmerica to thrive in tech, then we need our kids to start programming in elementary school."marissaaevans said, "Curious though, are there enough orgs out there dedicated to helping blacks perfect their entrepreneurial skills?"MrGobert said, "I always brace for a cringe-fest when watching anything on the state of 'black people' on TV. But this #blackinamerica was actually good."SharneaD said, "Can't believe Wayne was stopped in Silicon Valley for basically 'walking while black' really that still happens?”dstarwriter59 said, "' 'you folks don't help each other...' Wadwha aint lying. Not at all."LEFT said, "Only a fool thinks that it's hard being Black in America simply because we don't help each other. Structural racism is real- not an excuse."ibe2unique said, "I dont think Black In America programs air to solve the issues. Awareness is the beginning."Genius Deferred said, "@Nukirk @SeanXavr and THAT I think is the best thing to come out of this year's #Blackinamerica: The conversations it will spark."