Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A legal victory, an improbable win, a possible sweep. It's Tuesday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Campaign 2016Today could be the most important day of the primary season. Ok, that's been said about a billion times before, but this time we really mean it. The Donald holds a double-digit lead over The Ted as voting starts in Indiana . A Trump win here would almost certainly mean the end of the road for Cruz, Kasich and the conglomerate known as Stop Trump. And oh yeah, the Dems are voting today as well, with Hillz holding a narrow lead over Bernie.2. Justin Ross HarrisMedia coverage of the Justin Ross Harris case has been so intense that a judge decided the trial has to move from Cobb County. Georgia, to find impartial jurors. Harris is accused of leaving his 22-month-old son in the sweltering back seat of his car. His lawyers say Harris was a loving father who had a tragic breach of memory. The prosecution says Harris knew his son was in the car, and may have had some sick personal reasons for wanting the boy out of his life. Here's a quick summary3. Detroit schoolsIf you have a child that goes to public school in Detroit, you probably need to make alternate arrangements -- again. That's because teachers have planned another sickout today . The school system is seriously in the red and might not have any cash to pay the teachers after next month. More than 1,500 teachers called out sick yesterday, forcing all but three of Detroit's 97 schools to close. BTW, this week is National Teacher Appreciation Week.JUST WATCHED Most Detroit public school shut down Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Most Detroit public school shut down 02:124. Talcum powder lawsuit5. Premier LeagueEven non-soccer fans are taking notice of Leicester City's improbable nabbing of its first English Premier League title yesterday. The Foxes had never won a top-flight title in their 132-year history, and their odds this time were 5,000 to 1. It's enough to give the Chicago Cubs some serious hope.JUST WATCHED Leicester fans celebrate first Premier League title Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Leicester fans celebrate first Premier League title 01:18BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:Harmeet Dhillon, vice chairwoman of the California Republican Party, who's upset that during this summer's GOP convention, California Republicans will be "It sucks to be California; we're like the ugly stepchild. They need us for our cash and our donors; they don't need us for anything else.", vice chairwoman of the California Republican Party, who's upset that during this summer's GOP convention, California Republicans will be housed in a hotel some 60 miles away from ClevelandJonesing for the phoneA new poll says half of all teens feel addicted to their smartphones . Didn't need a poll to know that was true. We're just surprised it's only half.Blame the 1%Be careful walking through first class when boarding a plane, a new study says, because doing so could trigger bouts of "air rage."Just here for the picsThis year's Met Gala played with the idea of "Manus x Machina." But you're probably only interested in who wore what on the red carpet, so here you go.Raw food dietWho hasn't eaten in the nude at one time or another at home (wait, you haven't?). Now a London restaurant offers the same experience in public.Letting truth get in the way of ...