Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) It's back to school for Detroit. On to California for the Dems. And out of the city for McMurray. May the 4th be with you as you Get Up to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Campaign 2016The GOP nomination fight is all wrapped up, yet the Dems fight on? Who woulda thunk it? That's where Campaign 2016 is now. The Donald romped in Indiana and The Ted said peace out. As for the Dems, Bernie beat Hillary in Indiana , but not by nearly enough to make a dent in her delegate lead. He's (still) vowing to stay in the race until Cali, so they'll duke it out another month. Here's last night's five takeaways , a look at electoral math , and a reminder that John Kasich is still going and going and . ..2. Navy SEAL killedThe U.S. Navy SEAL killed in Iraq has been ID'd as Charles Keating IV , a grandson of savings-and-loan financier Charles Keating Jr. Keating died in northern Iraq after ISIS attacked a base where he and other SEALs were advising Kurdish Peshmerga forces. He's the third American combat casualty since the U.S. redeployed forces to Iraq to advise local forces and conduct special operations against ISIS in 2014.3. Detroit schoolsFor the first time this week, students will be in class in Detroit . Teachers have ended their sickout after getting assurances they'll be paid for the full school year. But no one is celebrating, because teacher pay issues are just the tip of the iceberg of what's wrong in the city's schools: $500 million operating debt; crumbling buildings, overcrowded classrooms and low test scores.JUST WATCHED How Detroiters feel about school closures Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Detroiters feel about school closures 01:034. Medical errorsSometimes the cure is worse than the disease, the old saying goes. But it actually may be worse than we thought. A new study suggests that medical errors are the third-leading cause of death in the U.S., behind only heart disease and cancer. They cause more than 251,000 deaths each year! The number may be higher because the study doesn't factor in home and nursing home deaths.5. City evacuationA raging wildfire has forced the evacuation of an entire Canadian city . Fort McMurray, located in northern Alberta, is in the path of a 7,400-acre fire that firefighters have been battling since Sunday. The city's 60,000 residents were ordered out yesterday -- the largest evacuation in Alberta's history.JUST WATCHED Canadian wildfire forces entire town's evacuation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Canadian wildfire forces entire town's evacuation 00:45BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:"They rented over a hundred old cars. There are not many cars like this left in the city right now."Victor, on the A Cuban driver named, on the dozens of multi-colored 1950s American cars rented by Chanel for its star-studded fashion show in HavanaPharma bro's woesMartin Shkreli, the ex-pharma CEO famous for hiking up the price of a life-saving drug, went to court and found out he's in more trouble than he thought.Today in facepalmA French man sued his former employer because he felt the job was too boring . Good luck getting a good reference from that gig.Today in facepalm IIReal estate mogul Barbara Corcoran offers simple advice for female biz owners: wear bright colors and yank up those skirts . Oy, said the Internet.Friendlier skiesThinking about flying to that ultimate getaway this summer? Why not? Airfares haven't been this low in seven yearsHow to (re)appear completelyAfter dropping off social media over the weekend, Radiohead has reemerged with a new music video on YouTube. Hipsters rejoice!WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening today.Give peace a chance