Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Raid remembrance. Elephant adieu. Cuban cruising. It's Monday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Bin Laden raidYesterday marked the five-year anniversary of the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. Tonight at 8 on CNN, President Obama and key members of his inner circle talk about the raid that led to the death of the mastermind behind the 9/11 terror attacks. Obama said he hopes that, in his last moments, bin Laden understood that America had not forgotten about the nearly 3,000 people who died in the attacks.2. Ringling Bros. elephantsIt's the end of an era. Elephants performed for the last time yesterday for Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus. They're now headed for a conservation center in Florida. But the battle's far from over for animal rights activists because all the other animals will remain with the circus.3. May Day protestsIn Seattle, the first day of May meant marches and Molotov cocktails . Protesters lit fireworks and threw rocks at cops as May Day rallies went south. Nine people were arrested and five officers were injured. But Emerald City wasn't alone. Clashes broke out at gatherings across the globe - from Paris to Moscow, Istanbul to London. Here's a primer whyJUST WATCHED Violent May Day clashes rock Seattle Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Violent May Day clashes rock Seattle 02:464. Cuba cruiseThe first U.S. cruise ship in decades to sail to Cuba will dock in Havana today. American and Cuban flags waved, and salsa music played. But it wasn't all smooth sailing for the history-making trip. A small group of protesters made their voices heard outside the port in Miami before the ship left, and police checked out a boat labeled "Democracia" where demonstrators held up signs critical of the Cuban regime.JUST WATCHED Carnival Cruise sails for Cuba Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Carnival Cruise sails for Cuba 01:485. Puerto RicoSeems like Puerto Ricans have always made a beeline to the mainland United States looking for better opportunities. But a new report suggests the island may be in the midst of a historic exodus . In the first half of this decade about 263,000 people left the island for the mainland, more than the half million Puerto Ricans who left in the first half of the 1950s, the last period of high emigration. Now, just like then, they're leaving for the same reasons -- high unemployment and a lack of opportunities.JUST WATCHED Puerto Rico is deep in debt Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Puerto Rico is deep in debt 00:54BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:"And with that, I just have two more words to say -- Obama out"Raised from the rubbleWant some good news? How about a miracle? Late last week a 72-year-old man was rescued from the rubble 13 days after Ecuador's earthquake.Snow gamesWe won't spoil it for you, 'cause we're nice people, but "Game of Thrones" made some noise on the Jon Snow front last night.Ready for her close upWatch out Prince George! Your days of soaking up all the attention may be numbered now that little sister Princess Charlotte's 1st birthday pics are out.Princess CharlotteThanks a lot, jerkComedian Amy Schumer says no more pics with fans after a man this weekend in South Carolina scared the crap out of her while demanding a photo.How to disappear completelyRadiohead is gone, at least on social media. Over the weekend all of the band's tweets and Facebook posts mysteriously disappeared . So, new album?Who wants to be a millionaire?Powerball jackpot is $348 million ; the next drawing is Wednesday. So you know what to do. You have almost no chance of winning, but has that ever stopped you?WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening today.Family fightA probate hearing in the looming battle over Prince's estate is planned for today in a Minneapolis court.Hot car death trial