Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Taking the heat. Prepping the attack. Failing the test. It's Tuesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Gorilla killedThe Cincinnati Zoo said it made a tough, but right, decision to kill a 450-lb. gorilla after a 4-year-old boy slipped into its habitat. A chorus of critics bitterly disagrees. They say the gorilla, Harambe, was trying to help the boy and that zookeepers should have used tranquilizers instead of bullets. The zoo says tranquilizers may not have worked in time. The boy's fine but an online petition -- "Justice for Harambe" -- wants his mom prosecuted.2. IraqIraqi forces have Falluja surrounded . But that was the easy part. Now, they'll have to push into the heart of the city and go door-to-door to push ISIS out - and that's sure to rack up heavy civilian losses. Already, the terror group has started executing the city's men and boys who refuse to fight for them. Liberating Falluja is a big deal : Along with Mosul, it's one of the last two Iraqi cities under ISIS' control. But then, Iraq faces a whole new set of challenges3. North KoreaKim Jong Un is being Kim Jong Un again. This morning, his reclusive regime tried to test launch a medium-range missile - again. It failed - again. That's dud no. 4. But Kim don't care. The rest of the world should. Like President Obama said last week, "Each time that they test, even if those tests fail, they learn something."JUST WATCHED South Korea officials: North Korea missile launch fails Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH South Korea officials: North Korea missile launch fails 01:274. Campaign 2016It was anything but a sleepy holiday weekend on the campaign trail. The Secret Service jumped in after four people tried to bum-rush Bernie Sanders during an Oakland rally yesterday. Meanwhile, the #NeverTrump folks are still not done with their wishful thinking. Conservative bigwig Bill Kristol promised an "impressive" candidate will emerge soon to challenge Donald Trump. The Donald handled that just like we knew he would -- by calling Kristol a "dummy."JUST WATCHED Secret Service rush stage at Bernie Sanders rally Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Secret Service rush stage at Bernie Sanders rally 01:365. KenyaKenya's military has been keeping a secret, and it's a horrible one. CNN has discovered at least 141 soldiers were killed in January when Al-Shabaab raided a Kenyan base in Somalia. That makes it the country's largest military defeat since its independence in 1963! Kenya's response has been to stay mum, keep soldiers' families in the dark and lock up anyone writing about it. Seems like the only clues come from Al-Shabaab, which released an almost hour-long video of the vicious attack.JUST WATCHED Investigating deadly terror attacks in Kenya Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Investigating deadly terror attacks in Kenya 03:28BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Out of his DeppthInto the deepA new "minivan-sized" sea sponge's been discovered off the coast of Hawaii. Some things are better off left alone in the deep.Live like the TannersIn the market for a little San Francisco real estate? The "Full House" house is for sale, and it'll only cost you a cool $4.15 million.Getting the word outWhat we need in our lives: Fewer boring, conventional commencement speeches; more exciting, spoken-word performances , like this Harvard grad's.How not to become shark snackPlan on battling a shark this summer? Probably not, but if you do, here's a cheat sheet on how you can winNumber of the day$300,000