(CNN) Judge Barry Williams' line of questioning in the trial of Baltimore police Officer Edward Nero foreshadowed the outcome.Days before taking 20 minutes to read his not-guilty verdict Monday, Williams aggressively challenged prosecutors' claim that the takedown and subsequent arrest of Freddie Gray without probable cause amounted to a criminal assault. He questioned the state's assertion that Nero and other officers assaulted Gray by touching him without reasonable suspicion or probable cause."You are saying an arrest without probable cause is a misconduct-in-office charge -- is a crime?" the judge asked. "So you say if you arrest someone without probable cause, it's a crime?"To those who know Williams, his fairness and broad range of experience -- from years prosecuting cases in the same courthouse where he now presides, to his investigation and prosecution of police misconduct cases for the U.S. Justice Department -- uniquely prepared him to deliver the first verdict in the closely-watched Freddie Gray case."At this critical time and for good and sound and decent reasons, we have to respect Judge Williams' opinion, because it was the result of an obviously fair process," Gray family attorney Billy Murphy told CNN on Tuesday.Photos: Baltimore protests Photos: Baltimore protests People hold hands during a rally at Baltimore City Hall on Sunday, May 3. The death of Freddie Gray, who died in police custody, sparked rioting in Baltimore and protests across the country Hide Caption 1 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Members of the National Guard board a truck at an armory staging area on May 3 in Baltimore. After a night of relatively peaceful protests, the city lifted a curfew , the National Guard is preparing its exit and a mall that had been a flashpoint in the protests has been reopened. Hide Caption 2 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Medics take a man away after police pepper-sprayed him on Saturday, May 2, in Baltimore's Sandtown neighborhood where Freddie Gray was arrested in April. Hide Caption 3 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police detain a man on May 2 in Baltimore's Sandtown neighborhood. Hide Caption 4 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters hold signs on May 2 in the Sandtown neighborhood. Hide Caption 5 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters march from the Gilmor Homes housing community, where Freddie Gray was arrested, to City Hall on Saturday, May 2, in Baltimore. Hide Caption 6 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police in riot gear enforce a 10 p.m. curfew and clear Baltimore streets of protesters and media on Friday, May 1. Hide Caption 7 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests U.S. Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Maryland, helps clear Baltimore streets of protesters on May 1. Hide Caption 8 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators celebrate the announcement that six officers were charged May 1 in Gray's death. Hide Caption 9 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators march through the streets of Baltimore after the charges against the officers were announced May 1. Hide Caption 10 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police on horseback block a Baltimore street on May 1. Hide Caption 11 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A demonstrator celebrates in Baltimore the charges were announced on May 1. Hide Caption 12 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A member of the National Guard stands outside Baltimore City Hall as protesters gather on Wednesday, April 29. Hide Caption 13 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests High school and college students march from Baltimore's Penn Station to City Hall on April 29. Hide Caption 14 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A community organizer later identified as Joseph Kent paces in front of riot police with his hands up during a curfew in Baltimore on Tuesday, April 28. Moments later, he was seen being arrested by police live on CNN . Kent's lawyer said on April 30 that his client had been released from jail. While some protesters defied the curfew and faced off with police, demonstrations Tuesday were largely peaceful. Hide Caption 15 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests State Sen. Catherine E. Pugh embraces a protester while urging the crowd to disperse ahead of the 10 p.m. curfew. Hide Caption 16 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People attempt to stop protesters from approaching a police line on April 28. Hide Caption 17 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A Baltimore police captain tries to calm a protester on April 28. Hide Caption 18 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Two women sweep up the streets in Baltimore -- reflected in the broken window of a storefront on April 28. See more photos of the cleanup efforts. Hide Caption 19 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A band plays music during protests on April 28 in Baltimore. Hide Caption 20 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A boy in Baltimore offers water to a police officer on April 28. Hide Caption 21 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Jerrie Mckenny, left, and her sister Tia Sexton embrace as demonstrators hold hands and sing the hymn "Amazing Grace" in Baltimore on April 28. Hide Caption 22 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators stand in front of a police line and call for peace after a bottle was thrown on April 28. Hide Caption 23 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Maryland National Guardsmen patrol the streets on April 28. Hide Caption 24 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests The remains of a senior center smolder on April 28. Riots broke out Monday, April 27, after Freddie Gray's funeral Hide Caption 25 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police retreat from burned-out cars in an intersection on Monday, April 27. Hide Caption 26 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Firefighters respond to a burning building during the riots late April 27. Hide Caption 27 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer walks by a burning building on April 27. Hide Caption 28 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police stand guard on April 27. Hide Caption 29 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters climb on a destroyed Baltimore Police car in the street near the corner of Pennsylvania and North avenues on April 27. Hide Caption 30 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A mixture of milk and water rolls down a man's chest after he was pepper sprayed by the Baltimore Police April 27. Hide Caption 31 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A man rides a bicycle through heavy smoke emitting from a nearby store on fire April 27. Hide Caption 32 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A man shouts for calm as protesters clash with police April 27. Hide Caption 33 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police carry an injured officer from the streets near Mondawmin Mall in Baltimore on April 27. Hide Caption 34 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People carrying goods leave a CVS pharmacy near Pennsylvania and North avenues on April 27. Hide Caption 35 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A demonstrator raises his fist as police stand in formation on April 27. Hide Caption 36 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Armored cars drive down Pennsylvania Avenue as looters break into shops on April 27. Hide Caption 37 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People lock arms and form a line opposing police at the corner of Pennsylvania and North avenues on April 27. Hide Caption 38 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police form a barrier between protesters and a burning CVS being attended to by firefighters on April 27. Hide Caption 39 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People carry goods out of a CVS pharmacy on April 27. Hide Caption 40 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police vehicle burns April 27. Hide Caption 41 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer throws an object at protesters on April 27. Hide Caption 42 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A man carries items from a store as police vehicles burn on April 27. Hide Caption 43 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer checks on a man who was injured on April 27. Hide Caption 44 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer is carried to safety after being hit in the head with a rock during the riot on April 27. Hide Caption 45 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer uses pepper spray on rioters on April 27. Hide Caption 46 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police officers push back a protester on April 27. Hide Caption 47 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police react during the riot on April 27. Hide Caption 48 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Baltimore police officers in riot gear look toward protesters near Mondawmin Mall on April 27. Hide Caption 49 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony Batts chases away protesters in a parking lot on April 27. Hide Caption 50 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A woman abandons her car in the middle of an intersection as Baltimore Police officers clash with protesters outside the Mondawmin Mall in Baltimore on April 27. Hide Caption 51 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Police handle the protesters during a riot on April 27. Hide Caption 52 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A demonstrator taunts police on April 27. Hide Caption 53 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters stand off with police during a march in honor of Gray in Baltimore on Saturday, April 25. Hide Caption 54 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A protester throws a barricade at a bar near Oriole Park at Camden Yards after a rally on April 25. Hide Caption 55 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters chase after a car as it drives in reverse after the rally on April 25. Hide Caption 56 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A protester breaks a store window after the rally in Baltimore on April 25. Hide Caption 57 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters get into a shoving match with police during a march downtown on April 25. Hide Caption 58 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters and police square off April 25. Hide Caption 59 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Protesters drive through the Camden Yards area on April 25. Hide Caption 60 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Members of the Baltimore Police Department stand guard Thursday, April 23, outside the department's Western District station during a protest. Hide Caption 61 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A police officer films protesters from the steps of the Western District station on April 23. Hide Caption 62 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Empowerment Temple Pastor Jamal Harrison Bryant speaks in front of City Hall in Baltimore on April 23. Hide Caption 63 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators put their fists in the air during a protest outside the Baltimore police's Western District station on Wednesday, April 22. Hide Caption 64 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Hundreds of demonstrators march toward the Western District station on April 22. Hide Caption 65 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests People march through the streets of Baltimore on April 22. Hide Caption 66 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests Demonstrators argue with Baltimore officers during the protest on April 22. Hide Caption 67 of 68 Photos: Baltimore protests A woman is comforted during the protest on April 22. Hide Caption 68 of 68Murphy said Williams' "excellent reputation both for probity and for being an aggressive prosecutor for many years ... of police misconduct cases" helped relieve concerns many had about the legal process."That gives us confidence that our designated representative of the community, Judge Barry Williams, did a credible job," he said. "That's all we wanted out of the process."Williams ruled there was no evidence to support charges of second-degree intentional assault, two counts of misconduct in office and reckless endangerment against Nero -- one of six officers charged and the second to be tried in the Gray case.Williams is overseeing the cases of four officers awaiting trial: Officer Garrett Miller, Lt. Brian Rice, Sgt. Alicia White and Officer Caesar Goodson Jr. The trial for Goodson, the van driver, will start June 6. Rice's will start July 5, Miller's July 27 and White's on October 13.Officer William Porter will likely face a retrial on June 13.Nero was one of three bicycle officers involved in the initial police encounter with Gray that day in April 2015. Baltimore seethed with days of unrest over the death of the 25-year-old prisoner.Prosecutors have said that Gray complained of having trouble breathing and asked for medical help as he was driven in a police van. When he arrived at a police substation, he was unconscious. A week later, Gray died at a hospital from a spinal injury.Considered fair, but bluntOn Monday, the families of Nero and the young black man the officer was accused of assaulting lauded Williams.Murphy applauded Williams, saying that, as an African-American judge, "he did not bend to that pressure" from the black community, many of whom wanted to see Nero convicted as an emotional response to Gray's death. The family might not be pleased with the verdict, he said, but they respect the rule of law.In September 2015, Baltimore approved a $6.4 million settlement of all civil claims tied to the death of Freddie Gray. The settlement did not "represent any judgment" on the guilt or innocence of the six police officers charged in the case, Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said.Andrew Alperstein, a defense attorney and CNN legal contributor, said of Williams, "He's very smart. He's very in control. He doesn't tolerate any shenanigans, whether it be lawyers or the collateral interests -- the protesters... He's very well respected by everybody -- the state, the defense. He brings no agenda to it."Williams, 54, was born in Neptune, New Jersey.He studied at the University of Virginia and obtained his law degree at the University of Maryland.Williams has a reputation as fair but blunt, sometimes aggressively questioning attorneys in his courtroom."You couldn't ask for a more fair-minded judge than Barry Williams," Murphy said after the Nero verdict.Local defense attorney Doug Colbert echoed that sentiment when speaking with CNN affiliate WBAL."I think at the end of the day, no matter what side of the coin you are on, with Judge Barry Williams presiding over this case, you are going to understand and realize that everyone received a fair trial," he said.Williams has served on the bench since 2005 and was named as the head of the Baltimore City Circuit Court's criminal division in 2011. He was special litigation counsel in the Justice Department's civil rights division from 2002 to 2005 and an assistant state's attorney in Baltimore from 1989 to 1997.'Very balanced approach'During the Freddie Gray case, Williams allowed the officers to be tried separately, and issued a gag order in October barring prosecutors and defense attorneys from discussing the case outside their legal teams. He denied a request by the defense to move the trials out of Baltimore.He declared a hung jury in the trial of the first officer in the case, William Porter. He also denied a request from prosecutors to compel Porter to testify against the other officers on trial, but that ruling was overturned by the Maryland Court of Appeals, according to WBAL.JUST WATCHED Officer found not guilty in Freddie Gray case Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Officer found not guilty in Freddie Gray case 01:28And he found Edward Nero not guilty in a bench trial."He brings a very balanced approach," Alperstein said. "He's well respected in the community. I haven't heard any community concerns about he's not a fair and impartial judge."Days before Williams' verdict, Rep. Elijah Cummings, who represents Baltimore in Congress, appealed for calm from the community."I have known Judge Williams for at least 20 years," Cummings said. "He has earned a reputation as a very fair and a very tough-minded judge and he runs a very strict court. And that's the kind of judge you want in a case like this."