(CNN) Johnny Manziel's turbulent time with the Cleveland Browns ended in March, and his future in the NFL is in doubt. After two years in the league and now facing an assault allegation, Manziel's NFL career could flame out almost as quickly as he rose to stardom.A Texas grand jury has indicted Manziel on an assault charge, according to Dallas County court records. Manziel's former girlfriend Colleen Crowley says in an affidavit that the NFL quarterback restrained, hit and threatened her during an alleged assault. She says Manziel grabbed her by the hair and hit her, causing her to lose her hearing in one ear. Manziel has denied hitting Crowley.Have we seen the last of Johnny Football on the field? Here's a look back on the highs and lows in his troubled life.June 29, 2012: Freshman season arrestManziel, a redshirt freshman at Texas A&M, was arrested and accused of disorderly conduct, failure to identify himself to police and having a fake identification card. He ultimately pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of failing to properly identify himself to police. The counts of possessing a fake driver's license and a charge of disorderly conduct by fighting were dismissed when a judge accepted Manziel's guilty plea.November 10, 2012: Manziel helps topple No. 1 AlabamaManziel takes the national stage, leading Texas A&M to a 29-24 upset win against No. 1 Alabama at Bryant-Denny Stadium in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, propelling him into the Heisman Trophy conversation.December 8, 2012: Manziel wins HeismanManziel makes history by becoming the first freshman to win the Heisman.August 28, 2013: NCAA suspends ManzielThe NCAA announces that Manziel will serve a half-game suspension in Texas A&M's season opener against Rice on August 31 for "inadvertent violation regarding the signing of certain autographs." The NCAA and Texas A&M said there was no evidence that Manziel, already known for giving the "money sign" during games, received money in exchange for autographs, but it still suspended him.He didn't appear to be deterred once he entered the game, however, doing an autograph gesture and giving his money sign.May 8, 2014: NFL draftThe Browns, trading up in the NFL draft, select Manziel as the 22nd overall pick.July 25, 2014: Browns 'alarmed' about ManzielAccording to a report from Cleveland.com, the Browns are "alarmed" by some of Manziel's actions since they drafted him, including parties in College Station and Las Vegas as well as a photo surfacing of Manziel rolling up a $20 bill in the bathroom of a bar. Other photos during the partying showed Manziel drinking champagne.August 18, 2014: Manziel's obscene gestureManziel gives the middle finger toward the Washington Redskins' bench during a preseason game; he would be fined a reported $12,000.November 22, 2014: Incident at apartment buildingIn the lobby of Manziel's apartment building, a fan tells police that he was assaulted by someone in Manziel's entourage . A few days later, Manziel said a "very intoxicated, very aggressive person" approached him in the lobby. "Luckily for us -- I don't want to go into a lot of detail about everything that happened because it all did happen so fast -- security was able to get things under wraps, I'm very thankful for that as well," Manziel said, according to Cleveland.comNo arrests were made, and the fan later issued a statement on Facebook to apologize.The Browns released a statement saying they were gathering information to understand what happened and added, "Nonetheless, the time of the incident is concerning to us. We continually stress to all of our players the importance of sound decision making in an effort to avoid putting themselves in these types of situations. We have addressed this appropriately with the player and will have no further comment at this time."January 28, 2015: Manziel seeks treatmentBrad Beckworth, a friend and adviser to Manziel and his family, says in a statement that Manziel entered a treatment facility on January 28. The statement was released on February 2 but did not specify what type of treatment Manziel was receiving.The Browns released their own statement the same day: "We respect Johnny's initiative in this decision and will fully support him throughout this process."April 17: Manziel out of rehabManziel releases a statement after his stay at Caron, an alcohol- and drug-treatment facility in Pennsylvania:"I would like to thank my family, friends, the Browns organization, my teammates and Browns fans everywhere for your patience, understanding and support during my stay at Caron. The doctors and staff have been amazing and what I've learned in the last couple of months has been tremendous."I owe private apologies to a lot of people that I disappointed but a very public one to the Browns organization and the fans that I let down. I take full responsibility for my actions and it's my intention to work very hard to regain everyone's trust and respect."June 17: Manziel retires the 'money sign'Manziel tells the media at the Browns team facility that he's shelving the "money sign" celebration for good.October 12: Incident in Avon, OhioIn a dashcam video, a police officer pulls up to Manziel and Crowley, parked on the side of a road, telling them about "numerous calls" about their speeding BMW. Crowley told police that Manziel hit her several times to prevent her from leaving the car. However, she downplayed the incident. "I don't want to make a big deal," she said. No charges were filed.January 2: Incident in North Olmsted, OhioAccording to CNN affiliate WOIO , Manziel is cited by North Olmsted police for driving with expired plates on his car. They had expired on September 20. It was the same car Manziel was driving when he was questioned by police on the side of a road on October 12. Manziel missed the Browns game against the Pittsburgh Steelers on January 3. According to an ESPN report, he was in Las Vegas that weekend in disguise and going by the name of "Billy."January 30: Alleged incident in DallasCrowley says Manziel restrained, hit and threatened her during an alleged assault. In an affidavit, Crowley says she was with Manziel at an upscale hotel in Dallas early in the morning of January 30. She says Manziel threw her on the bed and restrained her, preventing her from leaving the room. Crowley said she was still restrained as Manziel led her to the hotel's valet, where she cried: "Please don't let him take me. I'm scared for my life."The valet didn't know what to do and allowed the pair to leave, according to the affidavit.Crowley and Manziel then drove to Crowley's car. They both got in -- against her will, Crowley says -- but she jumped out and hid behind bushes. "He grabbed me by my hair and threw me back into the car and got back in himself. He hit me with his open hand on my left ear for jumping out of the car. I realized immediately that I could not hear out of that ear, and I still cannot today, two days later," the affidavit reads.Crowley says she hit Manziel several times while still afraid for her life.They then left Dallas for her apartment in Fort Worth. During the ride, Manziel allegedly threatened to kill both himself and her.The fight continued at the apartment where Manziel allegedly smashed Crowley's phone, and she pulled a knife out of her knife block and advanced toward him, according to the affidavit. He fled.When reached by TMZ Sports, Manziel denied hitting Crowley.February 5: Agent drops ManzielErik Burkhardt releases a statement that he has dropped Manziel as a client "after several emotional and very personal discussions with his family, his doctors and (Manziel) himself."February 25: Manziel case sent to grand juryMarch 11: Browns release ManzielTwo days after the start of the NFL calendar year, the Browns announce they are releasing Manziel , making the quarterback a free agent and available to sign with any team.March 19: Drew Rosenhaus becomes Manziel's agentProminent NFL agent Drew Rosenhaus takes Manziel on as a client.April 9: Manziel in car accidentThe Los Angeles Police Department says Manziel is a passenger in a car crash around 10:45 p.m. local time in the area of Sunset Plaza Drive and Sunset Plaza Circle.After the crash, the driver and passengers ran from the scene. They later returned, and witnesses identified the driver as Ryan Silverstein. When interviewed by LAPD, Silverstein admitted to driving the car too fast and losing control of the vehicle, which hit a light pole. The car was damaged but not the pole. There were no injuries.Manziel was not interviewed by LAPD.April 13: Rosenhaus announces terminationFor the second time in a little more than two months, an agent drops Manziel as a client . Rosenhaus says in a statement that he has "terminated the standard representation with Johnny Manziel in the hopes of helping him get the treatment I believe he needs."April 26: Manziel indictedA Texas grand jury indicts Manziel on an assault charge, according to Dallas County court records. The indictment accuses Manziel of "intentionally and knowingly and recklessly (causing) bodily injury to" Crowley."Johnny will certainly plead 'not guilty' and we believe the evidence will support that plea," Manziel's attorney, Jim Darnell, said in a statement. "Out of respect for Ms. Crowley, we will not try the case in the press. We do, however, believe that Johnny will be acquitted at the conclusion of the case."May 4: Manziel bookedHe turns himself in to police in Highland Park, Texas, and is booked on misdemeanor assault charges . Manziel posted $1,500 bond and was released.May 5: Manziel ordered to stay away from ex