Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Looking for unity. Hatching a plan. Turning a corner. It's Monday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .Campaign 2016Now that the GOP has its presumptive nominee, party unity's right around the corner, right? Not so fast . Leaders like House Speaker Paul Ryan aren't endorsing Donald Trump yet. Ex-rivals (hi, Jeb Bush and Lindsey Graham) -- are saying they won't vote for him . And conservative voices (read: Bill Kristol) -- are pushing for a third-party option . The Donald has a chance to fix that when he meets Ryan this week. But, from his talk show appearances yesterday, he doesn't seem too bothered. And then he dropped this bombshell: he's for raising taxes on the wealthy and the minimum wagePhilippines electionsIt's election day in the Philippines , but it's already been marred by violence that's killed at least five. Despite that, millions of voters braved stifling heat to pick a new president, elect half the Senate and the entire House. In the presidential race, controversial mayor Rodrigo Duterte -- they call him "Duterte Harry" -- has a big lead in the polls, despite a llegations of ties to death squads and extrajudicial killingsNorth KoreaKim Jong Un is a man with a plan -- a five-year plan. The North Korean leader announced his proposal to revive his country's stagnant economy yesterday during a three-hour -- three hours? --- speech during the country's biggest political confab in decades. What he didn't offer was any specifics on how he'd carry out his plan. Meanwhile, earlier today, the North kicked out a BBC reporter who was filing, in its view, "disrespectful" reports.JUST WATCHED BBC correspondent to be expelled from North Korea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH BBC correspondent to be expelled from North Korea 03:43Canada wildfireIs that massive wildfire up in northern Alberta turning a corner? That's the hope after a cold front brought a chance of showers and lower temps last night. The blaze is huge -- half the size of Rhode Island. Smoke has been spotted as far south as Florida and could be seen from space. But over the weekend, firefighter kept it growing as quickly as once feared. Still, almost 90,000 have been evacuated from the fire's path. Alberta Premier Rachel Notley heads up to Fort McMurray today to assess the devastation.JUST WATCHED Thousands flee growing Fort McMurray wildfire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Thousands flee growing Fort McMurray wildfire 01:33OilIt's time to update your LinkedIn profile, Ali al-Naimi. The Saudi Arabian oil minister -- the most powerful man in the business -- was shown the door over the weekend. For years and years, he pretty much called the shots at OPEC. But things started going south when oil prices started tumbling. Al-Naimi didn't cut Saudi oil production but urged other countries to. Of course they didn't -- and prices plummeted even more. And then just like that, poof, he was gone.Ali Al-NaimiBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Big ballin'Somebody's gettin' paaaiid! Only one ticket was a perfect match for this week's Powerball -- which means the winner will keep the entire $429.6 million jackpot!Army 'Formation?'Graduation celebration or political statement? West Point is investigating this pic of a group of female cadets with their fists raised in a "black power" saluteAxl's back in blackGuns N' Roses frontman Axl Rose took the stage this weekend in Portugal for his first show with AC/DC. And you can watch the whole show hereThe problem with numbersAdd this to the list of things that'll get you thrown off a flight: Intensely working on math problemsProm problemsAdd this to the list of things that'll get you tossed out of your prom (if you're a girl): Wearing a tuxWHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening today.Fresh startDeadline dayNorth Carolina has until the end the day to respond to the Justice Department, which said NC's transgender bathroom law violates the Civil Rights Act.Number of the day130