Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A search continues. A girl is found. A chief resigns. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. EgyptAir crashA missing plane, lots of speculation and not much else as the search for EgyptAir Flight 804 enters its second day. The plane, carrying 66 people, crashed into the Mediterranean while flying from Paris to Cairo. This morning, search crews found plane parts and passenger belongings . Egypt thinks terrorism's to blame. So do U.S. officials. But neither has revealed any evidence to back that up. For the latest, check out our live blog2. Nigeria abducted schoolgirlsTwo miracles in two days? That would seem to be the case as Serah Luka -- another Chibok schoolgirl abducted by Boko Haram two years ago -- was rescued by Nigeria's military. Luka, the daughter of a paster, was taken to a hospital. Her rescue was on the same day that fellow freed schoolgirl Amina Ali Nkeki met with Nigeria's president. Sadly, more than 200 girls remain missing.3. San Francisco police chiefHe's withstood protests and hunger strikes -- but the fatal police shooting of a woman proved too much. Greg Suhr quit as San Francisco's police chief yesterday . The pressure on him was already intense: not one but two racist/homophobic texting scandals and several deaths of minority suspects at the hands of cops. And the pressure didn't just come from protesters; some on the city's Board of Supervisors also wanted him gone.JUST WATCHED San Francisco police chief resigns Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH San Francisco police chief resigns 01:064. Oklahoma abortion billAlmost every year, Oklahoma lawmakers have passed bills that put new restrictions on abortions -- only to have courts come back and say, 'Nope, unconstitutional.' Now, they've done what no other state has: They passed a bill (with zero discussion or debate) that effectively bans abortion by making it a felony . Critics call it a direct assault on Roe v. Wade. The anti-governor has three options: veto it, sign it, or do nothing (in which case it still becomes law).JUST WATCHED Oklahoma legislature passes bill criminalizing abortion Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Oklahoma legislature passes bill criminalizing abortion 00:555. Military sex assaultsThe U.S. military discharges victims of sex assaults instead of helping them. That's what Human Rights Watch alleges after talking to 163 victims from all parts of the military. The victims obviously suffered trauma from the sexual assault -- but the military called it "personality disorder" and used it as grounds to discharge them, the group says. As a result, the victims had trouble accessing benefits. The military called B.S. on the report, saying the group didn't review service records.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.60 Minutes, 46 years, 900 reportsNews legend Morley Safer, the longest-serving "60 Minutes" correspondent, has died -- one week after filing his last piece.Turtle troubleGot salmonella? Blame a turtle. Federal health officials warn the little guys in the shells may be responsible for outbreaks in four statesHigh rise developmentDutch architects designed a house inside a cliff . The internet loved it -- and its pool-as-skylight design -- so it's being built in a cliff in Lebanon.Light in the darknessA mug confiscated by the Nazis at Auschwitz seven decades ago held a secret: a gold ring and necklace , hidden in a false base.Cold-hearted hackNow hackers are going after dead folks. They got into the Twitter account of late newsman David Carr yesterday, polluting his feed with porn links.Number of the day$724,000The cash NFL is returning to the Defense Department after they were criticized for hosting paid patriotic celebrations at games.AND FINALLY ...Dynamic duoNothing like cheesy, Norwegian 80s pop music to bring families together, as a dad and daughter prove with their take on a-Ha's "Take On Me."