Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Putting out fires. Making a big bust. Breaking down a brawl. It's Monday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Campaign 2016The Donald's allies probably felt more like the fire department than a political team this weekend, as they put out three-alarm blazes around the soon-to-be GOP nominee. The big one involved a report that said Trump's behavior with women had been less than honorable. Meanwhile, Hillz and Uncle Bernie are mining for votes once again in coal country, this time in Kentucky. Clinton hopes things work out better than the last time -- a loss to Sanders last week in West Virginia.2. HomicidesA statistical blip or the start of a troubling trend? Homicides in the U.S are up this year . Chicago's having it the worst - 141 murders through March. That's a 70% increase over the same period last year. FBI head James Comey's theory is that officers are hesitant to do their jobs because they don't want to be the next bad cop on YouTube. The White House calls B.S. on that and says it won't make broad policy decisions on anecdotal evidence.3. Colombia drug bustThere are big deals, and then there's this: Cops made the largest drug bust in Colombia's history when they seized 17,500 pounds of cocaine hidden in a banana plantation. That's EIGHT TONS of pre-packaged bricks of coke. The gang behind the operation, Los Urabeños, is comprised of heavily armed, extremely violent ex-terrorists who took a hard pass on the government's peace process. And the dude who leads them - Dario "Otoniel" Úsuga -- has a $5 million bounty on his head. So yeah, this was a pretty big deal.Police displayed the eight tons of seized cocaine.4. Manchester United matchSome employee somewhere in Great Britain's having a difficult conversation with their boss this morning. A suspicious item was found at Manchester United's stadium yesterday, leading to an evacuation and then a cancellation of the club's match with AFC Bournemouth. Turns out it wasn't a bomb, just a training device that looked just like a bomb. It had been accidentally left in the stadium by a private company after a training exercise. Oops.JUST WATCHED Police: Suspected bomb is a 'training device' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police: Suspected bomb is a 'training device' 01:205. Texas biker brawlJUST WATCHED 177 bikers arrested following shootout Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 177 bikers arrested following shootout 02:26BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:"In politics and in life, ignorance is not a virtue. It's not cool to not know what you're talking about."Barack Obama, President addressing graduates at Rutgers yesterday and taking a not-so-subtle aim at Donald TrumpBison buyTough crowdWhat's harder than a UFC fight? Battling the crowd on the way into your fight. Matt Brown found that out this weekend.Worst of the worstPoor Carrier -- regularly getting blasted for sending U.S. jobs south of the border. But it's not even in the Top 20 of America's job-killing companies. These firms areGet well soonThe Red Hot Chili Peppers missed a show this weekend, after singer Anthony Kiedis ended up in the hospital with intestinal flu.Aurora angel