(CNN) After a series of failed resupply missions, the International Space Station finally got assorted goodies for its crew Sunday when a Russian spacecraft filled with supplies docked at the station.The unmanned rocket blasted off from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on Friday. It carried 6,100 pounds of food, fuel, water, oxygen and other supplies."Crew reports, 'feels like Christmas in July,' " the International Space Station tweeted.A Soyuz spacecraft is seen on May 13 as it lands in Kazakhstan with Wakata and other members of the his Expedition 39 crew.A Soyuz spacecraft is seen on May 13 as it lands in Kazakhstan with Wakata and other members of the his Expedition 39 crew.A Russian Soyuz spacecraft is docked with the space station on May 5. Since the U.S. shuttle program ended in 2011, all crew members are ferried to and from the space station on Russian rockets.A Russian Soyuz spacecraft is docked with the space station on May 5. Since the U.S. shuttle program ended in 2011, all crew members are ferried to and from the space station on Russian rockets.Commander Koichi Wakata of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency peers out of the space station's Cupola observatory on April 27. The Cupola is a dome-shaped module that allows station crew members to observe and guide activities outside the station.Commander Koichi Wakata of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency peers out of the space station's Cupola observatory on April 27. The Cupola is a dome-shaped module that allows station crew members to observe and guide activities outside the station.An unmanned Russian cargo craft disconnects from the space station in April 2013. The station relies heavily on ships to bring up supplies.An unmanned Russian cargo craft disconnects from the space station in April 2013. The station relies heavily on ships to bring up supplies.The unmanned SpaceX Dragon spacecraft connects to the space station in May 2012. It was the first private spacecraft to successfully reach an orbiting space station.The unmanned SpaceX Dragon spacecraft connects to the space station in May 2012. It was the first private spacecraft to successfully reach an orbiting space station.The space shuttle Discovery leaves the space station in March 2008 after its crew successfully delivered and installed the Japanese-built Kibo lab.The space shuttle Discovery leaves the space station in March 2008 after its crew successfully delivered and installed the Japanese-built Kibo lab.In September 2006, the space shuttle Atlantis docked with the space station, delivering solar wings and a new truss.In September 2006, the space shuttle Atlantis docked with the space station, delivering solar wings and a new truss.In March 2001, a space shuttle delivered the station's second crew and brought the first one home. It also brought Leonardo, the station's first Multi-Purpose Logistics Module, to the station. Leonardo carried supplies and equipment.In March 2001, a space shuttle delivered the station's second crew and brought the first one home. It also brought Leonardo, the station's first Multi-Purpose Logistics Module, to the station. Leonardo carried supplies and equipment.The Endeavour crew installs the first set of U.S. solar arrays on the station in 2000.The Endeavour crew installs the first set of U.S. solar arrays on the station in 2000.The first crew of the International Space Station, seen on board in December 2000. From the left are cosmonaut Yuri P. Gidzenko, astronaut William M. Shepherd and cosmonaut Sergei K. Krikalev.The first crew of the International Space Station, seen on board in December 2000. From the left are cosmonaut Yuri P. Gidzenko, astronaut William M. Shepherd and cosmonaut Sergei K. Krikalev.The Zarya control module, on the left with the solar panels, floats above Earth with its newly attached Unity module after the first assembly sequence in December 1998.The Zarya control module, on the left with the solar panels, floats above Earth with its newly attached Unity module after the first assembly sequence in December 1998.The crew of the space shuttle Endeavour initiates the station's first assembly sequence in 1998. The International Space Station includes several large modules, each launched separately and connected in space by astronauts.The crew of the space shuttle Endeavour initiates the station's first assembly sequence in 1998. The International Space Station includes several large modules, each launched separately and connected in space by astronauts.The crew of the space shuttle Atlantis took this picture of the International Space Station after leaving it in July 2011. Atlantis was the last shuttle to visit the station, which was first launched in 1998 and built by a partnership of 16 nations.The crew of the space shuttle Atlantis took this picture of the International Space Station after leaving it in July 2011. Atlantis was the last shuttle to visit the station, which was first launched in 1998 and built by a partnership of 16 nations.While such missions are usually routine, past spacecraft resupply attempts have failed, making this one especially crucial.In late June, an unmanned SpaceX rocket carrying a supply capsule exploded shortly after liftoff from Cape Canaveral, Florida.It was carrying a spacesuit , water filtration equipment, crew provisions, food, water and student experiments. It was unclear what caused the rocket to fail, but a Federal Aviation Administration investigation is underway.Failed missionsThe Russian Progress 60 cargo craft is seen approaching the International Space Station.Three space station astronauts -- Cmdr. Gennady Padalka and Mikhail Kornienko of Russia and NASA's Scott Kelly -- had been awaiting SpaceX's shipment.Another Russian rocket, Progress 59, went out of control after launch in April and burned up on re-entry in May . It had crew clothing, spacewalk hardware, propellant, oxygen and water, among other supplies.But wait, there's more.Crew awaiting suppliesNASA says the crew on the space station has enough supplies to last until October, even without the gear on the latest rocket.JUST WATCHED Russian rocket takes off to resupply ISS Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Russian rocket takes off to resupply ISS 01:09"The space station crew is fine on orbit," NASA's William Gerstenmaier said . "They've done a tremendous job of balancing all the consumables on orbit. We're in good shape from a food standpoint."However, he said, the crew will need to watch water levels. One of the most important items lost in the SpaceX explosion was a piece of equipment that filters water."Even without processed water, we have enough water supplies on orbit until late 2015," NASA spokeswoman Stephanie Schierholz said.Kelly and Kornienko are taking part in what NASA calls " The One-Year Crew ." They're living on the space station for about a year to explore the effects of long-term space flight on the human body.Three more crew members are scheduled to go to the space station on a Russian spacecraft this month.The space stationThe station orbits about 250 miles (400 kilometers) above Earth. It circles the planet every 90 minutes