(CNN) David Sweat spills prison break details. The United States boosts holiday weekend security. And the U.S. women's soccer team is in the World Cup finals.It's Wednesday, and here are the five things to know for your new day:NEW YORK PRISON BREAKSay what you will about the recaptured New York prison escapee, but David Sweat is owning it. Not only is he portraying himself as the mastermind of the whole operation , but he's giving investigators a play-by-play account. Sweat has told police that he and Richard Matt made a prison break practice run. The night before they broke out of the Clinton Correctional Facility, they went through an underground tunnel system and reached a manhole, but decided it wasn't isolated enough. They waited until the next night and escaped through another one that was more to their liking.HOLIDAY TERROR WATCHHappy Fourth of July: Recent terror attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France have Recent terror attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France have U.S. law enforcement officials on edge and boosting security measures ahead of the holiday weekend. The FBI, Department of Homeland Security and National Counterterrorism Center issued a bulletin last week, saying July 4 events were ripe for possible attacks. Authorities appear most concerned about lone wolf attacks inspired by ISIS.JUST WATCHED Concerns grow over possible July Fourth terror attacks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Concerns grow over possible July Fourth terror attacks 01:48U.S.-CUBA RELATIONSBienvenido: The United States and Cuba are expected to The United States and Cuba are expected to officially renew diplomatic ties today by announcing the reopening of embassies in Washington and Havana for the first time in more than half a century. President Obama initiated the diplomatic thaw back in December. Since then, the United States has loosened some travel restrictions to Cuba and has allowed for new, limited economic ties.JUST WATCHED U.S. officials: U.S. and Cuba to re-open embassies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH U.S. officials: U.S. and Cuba to re-open embassies 03:00GREECEBroke: It's no big surprise, but It's no big surprise, but Greece has defaulted on a $1.7 billion payment to the International Monetary Fund. It's the first time a developed country has done so. Because of the default, Greece is cut off from IMF resources until the payment is made. To fix things, Athens is asking for a two-year bailout from Europe. If it comes to pass, it would be the third one in six years. The bankrupt country is reportedly asking for $32 billion. The question now is whether Europe and Greece can agree to terms to make it happen.JUST WATCHED Greece defaults on $1.7 billion payment Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Greece defaults on $1.7 billion payment 01:54WOMEN'S WORLD CUPOne more game: The The Americans are in the World Cup finals after beating No. 1 Germany 2-0 yesterday. The United States will face the winner of today's semifinal match between England and Japan. The championship match is Sunday in Vancouver, British Columbia. A U.S. win would be the team's third World Cup title. Team USA also won in 1991 and 1999.JUST WATCHED Fans celebrate USA's World Cup victory over Germany Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fans celebrate USA's World Cup victory over Germany 01:07Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few more that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing:MJ cover tunes: This Michael Jackson piano mash up is "Bad" -- really, really bad. But in a really, really good way.An eye opener: American teens react to Caitlyn Jenner.