(CNN) David Sweat is singing like a canary about the botched escape. Airlines are under investigation for possible price collusion. And Donald Trump goes after immigrants -- again.It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day:PRISON ESCAPEAfter pulling off a brazen, film-worthy escape from a prison in upstate New York , it came down to booze for convicted murderers David Sweat and Richard Matt. Sweat told investigators that Matt, who was fatally shot last week, was out of shape and hitting the bottle a little too hard after they broke into a cabin. The discord prompted the fugitives to split up, he said.DONALD TRUMPControversial comments: The Republican The Republican presidential candidate is not done talking. He continued his verbal attack against illegal immigrants in an exclusive interview with CNN's Don Lemon. "Well if you look at the statistics of people coming, you look at the statistics on rape, on crime, on everything coming in illegally into this country it's mind-boggling!" he said. In recent days, Trump has claimed "rapists" and "killers" are migrating over the United States' southern border. Univision and NBC Universal have cut ties with the businessman over his comments. So has Macy's.JUST WATCHED Donald Trump: 'Leaders of the party take me seriously' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Donald Trump: 'Leaders of the party take me seriously' 01:46WORLD CUPWomen's soccer: They They wanted a rematch, bad . Japan and the United States will meet again Sunday after a bitter World Cup final four years ago. Defending champs Japan advanced to the Women's World Cup soccer final with a 2-1 victory yesterday over England in a semifinal. Japan and the U.S. played to a 2-2 tie four years ago, and Japan won the penalty-kick shootout 3-1.JUST WATCHED Wambach: More happy that teammate scored than if I had Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wambach: More happy that teammate scored than if I had 01:39SHARK ATTACKSNumber seven: A man was attacked A man was attacked by a shark in North Carolina yesterday , the seventh such incident in that state this year. The attack occurred on the Outer Banks' Ocracoke Island. The man was swimming when he encountered a gray shark, which pulled him under the water and bit his rib cage, hip, lower leg and both hands. The man was conscious and talking and was taken to a hospital.JUST WATCHED Terrifying shark attack marks seventh in month Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Terrifying shark attack marks seventh in month 01:21AIRLINE PRICESCollusion? Did major Did major airlines conspire to keep prices high? We'll find out pretty soon. The Justice Department has sent subpoenas to several major airlines as part of an investigation into "possible unlawful coordination" to limit capacity increases, and thereby keeping ticket prices high. It's not immediately clear how the airlines coordinated, but investigators are pouring over public comments by executives and industry analysts.