(CNN) Can so-called conservation hunting actually benefit wildlife? Or is the killing of endangered animals for sport unconscionable, no matter what?The debate is emotional on both sides. And it has grown louder since Corey Knowlton, a Texas hunter, went to Namibia this year to kill a black rhinoHe had won the right to do so by bidding $350,000 -- money that will go toward conservation. The permit was issued by Namibia's Ministry of Environment and Tourism. And he was only allowed to kill an animal identified by Namibian authorities as one that needed to go: an aging bull who was beyond his reproductive years and who posed a threat to younger rhinos.Unyielding viewsPeople on each side of the debate hold uncompromising positions. Knowlton said he was motivated by a desire to save the species."Maybe 100 years from now -- maybe it's delusions of grandeur -- but I hope people will look at it and say this was the turning point that got people to understand what it means to be a conservationist," he told CNN.But Jeffrey Flocken, the North America regional director of the International Fund for Animal Welfare, was just as categorical."Killing endangered wildlife to save it is just wrong," Flocken wrote in an opinion piece for CNNEmotional elementIt is hard to escape the conclusion that at least some people on each side of the issue have formed an emotional conclusion first, then looked for reasons to support it.If someone with money to spare wants to donate several hundred thousand dollars to wildlife conservation in Namibia, for example, he or she doesn't need to shoulder a rifle to do so. It is possible to transfer the money electronically, without trekking through thorns and tracking the animal from its watering hole.It seems likely that, somewhere in there, the thrill of the hunt still plays a role.That thought has been reinforced this week with allegations that an American dentist, Walter Palmer of Minnesota, paid between $50,000 and $55,000 to hunt and kill a much-loved lion in Zimbabwe in July.Cecil the lion was shot first with a crossbow, finished off 40 hours later with a gun, then skinned and beheaded, according to Zimbabwean officials.Those officials said the kill was illegal. Palmer has said he relied on his local guides to make sure that hunting laws were followed.Conservation is to hunting what farming and ranching are to agriculture. Just a great way of keeping it going! pic.twitter.com/LUdISDiKsD — Outdoors (@OutdoorsCEO) May 19, 2015But the idea that trophy hunting has shown no benefit whatever does not seem to be backed by research.An article published in the University of Washington magazine Conservation -- quoting a 2005 paper from the Journal of International Wildlife -- reported that legalizing hunting of the white rhino in South Africa had motivated private landowners to reintroduce the species onto their lands."As a result, the country saw an increase in white rhinos from fewer than 100 individuals to more than 11,000, even while a limited number were killed as trophies," the article said.And the Conservation article went on to evaluate Namibia's practice of auctioning permits to kill older, nonbreeding males."Namibia's own hunting policy, it turns out, is remarkably consistent with scientific recommendations," the article said.Poachers are the real threatThe real threat to endangered species such as the black rhino, whose horn is prized for its purported medicinal properties, is poachers, most people agree. If the fight against poachers can be made more robust, and if the animals' habitat can be expanded, the argument goes, the herd as a whole will benefit.In light of such findings, one could conclude that at least some opponents of conservation hunting have first and foremost a revulsion to the killing of animals for sport and therefore decline to acknowledge it can ever have any benefits.Conservation hunting is such BS! If you want to help the rhino give the money to anti-poaching efforts WITHOUT killing one of them. — Farrah Smith (@fesSSCS) May 20, 2015Culling herds, including through hunting, has long been an accepted conservation practice. A prime example: deer hunting in North America.A 2013 article on Cool Green Science -- the science blog of the Nature Conservancy -- argued that the population of white-tailed deer was too big and was damaging the region's forests and reducing the habitat for wildlife."In our opinion, no other threat to forested habitats is greater at this point in time -- not lack of fire, not habitat conversion, not climate change," the authors wrote.Intangible aspectsPhotos: The world's critically endangered species Photos: The world's critically endangered species Black rhino – Poachers and hunters are responsible for the early decline of black rhino population. The world's animal population has halved in 40 years as humans put unsustainable demands on Earth, according to a 2014 report from the World Wide Fund for Nature Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: The world's critically endangered species Hawksbill sea turtle – The existence of Hawksbill sea turtles have been traced back 100 million years. Now they are critically endangered, the WWF says. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: The world's critically endangered species Mountain gorilla – As humans move more into the mountain gorillas' territory, the gorillas have been pushed farther up into the mountains, forcing them to endure dangerous and sometimes deadly conditions, the WWF report on the planet says. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: The world's critically endangered species Amur leopard – Amur Leopard, a rare species of leopard living on the borders of Russia and China, was the winner of the 2013 WWF award dedicated to the positive evolution of an endangered species, but remains critically endangered. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: The world's critically endangered species Sumatran orangutan – Sumatran orangutans are losing their natural habitats to mining, palm oil and paper plantations. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: The world's critically endangered species South China tiger – The South China tiger is considered "functionally extinct," as it has not been sighted in the wild for more than 25 years. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: The world's critically endangered species Sumatran elephant – Sumatran elephants come into conflict with humans due to the rapid expansion of palm oil plantations which destroy their habitat. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: The world's critically endangered species Sumatran tiger – Sumatran tigers are the smallest surviving tiger species and are protected by law in Indonesia. But despite increased efforts in tiger conservation, they remain critically endangered. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: The world's critically endangered species Leatherback turtle – Leatherback turtles are the largest sea turtle species and also one of the most migratory, crossing both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. According to WWF, their numbers have seriously declined during the last century as a result of intense egg collection and fishing. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: The world's critically endangered species Western lowland gorilla – Western lowland gorillas are critically endangered species. Because of poaching and disease, their numbers have declined by more than 60% over the last 20 to 25 years, according to the WWF's report. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: The world's critically endangered species Yangtze finless porpoise – The population of Yangtze finless porpoises is declining rapidly. The freshwater dolphins are suffering due to pollution and hunting. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: The world's critically endangered species Sumatran rhino – Sumatran rhino populations are extremely threatened by poaching, the WWF says. Hide Caption 12 of 12Then there are the intangible aspects of different policies. What, for example, is the effect of conservation hunting on public perception?Such a question is harder to answer."Could the possible negative consequences from a PR perspective outweigh the possible benefits from hunting?" the article in Conservation asked. "Can the message that an auction for the hunting of an endangered species like the black rhino brings possibly be reconciled with the competing message that the species requires saving?"This question is probably not one that science can address."