(CNN) A Brooklyn-based artist and animator has devised a way to hush that fuss over the Confederate icons striding across Georgia's Stone Mountain.Rather than trying to wash away the South's history -- as represented in a relief carving of Jefferson Davis, Robert E. Lee and Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson -- Mack Williams proposes making that history more robust.By adding sculptures of Atlanta's Outkast to the granite formation."I believe that Daddy Fat Sacks and Three Stacks should be carved riding in a Cadillac (as is their wont). This will help the new carving blend nicely with the Confederates who are on horseback," Williams wrote, using Big Boi and Andre 3000's nicknames, i n a moveon.org petition that had more than 5,600 signatures as of Thursday afternoon.Williams, who hails from Blackshear, located about 100 miles southwest of Savannah, says he had the idea when he saw that the Atlanta branch of the NAACP wanted to completely remove the carvings , which it says were "commissioned out of hate and white supremacy.""I don't think the NAACP thinks anyone is going to sandblast that sculpture off the mountain," Williams told CNN.JUST WATCHED NAACP chapter: Remove faces of Confederacy from monument Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NAACP chapter: Remove faces of Confederacy from monument 01:13Likewise, Williams doubts he can convince the powers that be to put Big Boi and Andre 3000, whose real names are Antwan Patton and André Benjamin, alongside the Confederate leaders.But he's pleased it's starting a dialogue, even if that dialogue is largely drowned out by vitriol spewed from those who missed the point. If it pans out, and the "Two Dope Boyz in a Cadillac" cruise onto the face of the outcropping, he'd be delighted.Granted, the chances are slim. The Stone Mountain Memorial Association operates the park as a sort of Confederate museum. Revenue, not tax dollars, cover its maintenance and operation, said association spokesman John Bankhead. The state Legislature must approve any changes to the park, he said."This park is protected by the law," he told CNN.So, why Outkast?You see, as one of duo's many hits tells it, "A couple of years ago on Headland and Delowe, was the start of something good" -- so good that the duo hailing from East Point, outside Atlanta, became international names, paving a way for dozens of Atlanta rappers to follow."Luda or T.I. or Jermaine Dupri have all done a lot for the Atlanta music scene ... but nobody unites Atlanta like Outkast," Williams said. "If the image of these Confederate (generals and president) is divisive, I can't think of anything that would unite us like Outkast."👍RT @ajc: How 'bout it @bigboi? Two dope boys in a Cadillac — on the side of Stone Mountain? http://t.co/seiEZGsZcs pic.twitter.com/G8srJkbu5S — Big Boi (@BigBoi) July 15, 2015Other tongue-in-cheek ideas included having Georgia civil rights heroes "John Lewis and Andy Young facing off against the generals" or "carving up the mountain and putting people all over it," but being a fan of the band -- and seeing how Outkast sold out night after night of their reunion concerts at Atlanta's Centennial Olympic Park and elsewhere -- Williams decided the pair deserved their faces on a monument for posterity.To be clear, Williams is not a revisionist. He would never condone doing away with the monument, which he calls "technically and architecturally amazing" and "an engineering achievement.""But it's for the Confederacy, which in my opinion, is a horrible thing," he said. "I don't think a work of art needs to be judged on its intent. ... I also don't think we should erase that and pretend it didn't happen or pretend it wasn't there."'There's plenty of room'As he wrote in his petition, "I believe it's important to recognize the history and heritage of all Georgians. However, the carving of Davis, Lee, and Jackson on the side of Stone Mountain only represents a small, regrettable time in the history of the Peach State. It's high time we added a bit more of our history and culture to this monument.Photos: Hollywood's best bromances Photos: Hollywood's best bromances When you start a band together, it's a special kind of bromance. Big Boi and Andre 3000 have been at it for over 20 years. We just hope to see a new OutKast album one of these days. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances Is this a bromance in the making? When Captain Jack Sparrow meets Han Solo, it certainly is, at least in our dreams. Johnny Depp (in full Captain Jack regalia) came face to face with Harrison Ford on Saturday, August 15 at Disney's D23 Expo (promoting the next "Pirates of the Caribbean" and the next "Star Wars," respectively), and the photo quickly went viral. If only we were a fly on the wall ... Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances Matt Damon and Ben Affleck are the poster boys of bromance. In fact, when Affleck was cast as Batman, there were jokes about Damon playing Robin . After their Oscar-winning script for "Good Will Hunting," the pair continued to work together in movies like "Dogma." Now they have teamed up again for Syfy thriller "Incorporated." See more of our favorite male besties ... Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances Jonah Hill and Channing Tatum are a winning pair on and off the big screen. The "21 Jump Street" co-stars and off-screen pals are reviving their bromance with the comedy "22 Jump Street," which opens June 13. Of their bond, Tatum told CNN, "we just got really lucky." Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances Co-workers and good friends, "X-Men" stars Ian McKellen and Patrick Stewart have perfected the art of the bromance . In a new interview with AARP magazine , McKellen said that Stewart is "straightforward," but "his nature is a very sweet one. And we spend much of our time laughing." The way all bros should. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances Kanye West and Jay-Z go way back. West was a producer on Jay-Z's albums 13 years ago, and Jay-Z returned the favor, appearing on West's albums. The ultimate collaboration came in 2011 with the pair's wildly successful album "Watch the Throne." Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances Though they may have played enemies on "Lost," Terry O'Quinn and Michael Emerson ("Person of Interest") became good friends while filming the show. Emerson told CNN , "We were both the oldest guys on that show. We had many more things in common: small town Midwestern backgrounds, and we both moved to big cities to pursue the unlikely dream of being an actor. We both ended up accidentally on a big series. We had some of the same work habits. We had so many things in common." The pair hope to work together again in the future. Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances For some fans, the relationship and competition between Blake Shelton and Adam Levine are big reasons to watch "The Voice." The show has played up the pair's bromance, but that hasn't made them less competitive, often needling each other along the way. Levine won the first season and Shelton has won every season since. Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances The film "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" was one of the highlights of a beautiful friendship between Robert Redford (right) and the late Paul Newman. They worked together again in "The Sting." When Newman died in 2008, Redford spoke at length about their relationship, praising Newman's social responsibility and his sense of fun. Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances Any fan of "Zoolander" will tell you just how great Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson work together. The pair turned up again in "The Royal Tenenbaums," "Starsky & Hutch" and the "Meet the Parents" films. Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances Most people first met Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau in the 1996 hit independent film "Swingers." Sure, Vaughn had his Owen Wilson comedies and Favreau had his "Iron Man" movies but these two have kept working together in everything from "Four Christmases" to "Couples Retreat." Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances Their bromance didn't start with "The Great Gatsby." Tobey Maguire and Leonardo DiCaprio go back to the late 1980s. While doing press for the movie this summer, Maguire called DiCaprio "one of my best friends." All together now: Awww... Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances Brad Pitt and George Clooney always seemed to have a blast making those "Ocean's" movies, and the fun has just continued for these two. Clooney even name-dropped Pitt in his Golden Globes acceptance speech last year. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances You just thought that "Scrubs" characters Turk and J.D.'s "Guy Love" was only on-screen. It turns out that Donald Faison and Zach Braff are besties in real life, singing Christmas carols , one hosting the other's wedding at their home , the whole bit. So of course they had to reunite on Faison's TV Land show. Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances As soon as Jimmy Fallon and Justin Timberlake did "The Barry Gibb Talk Show" on "Saturday Night Live" -- and couldn't help but crack each other up -- you knew it was a bromance waiting to happen. Timberlake is now basically a regular on "Late Night with Jimmy Fallon," most recently as part of "Timberlake Tuesdays" this September. Hide Caption 15 of 16 Photos: Hollywood's best bromances Since their "Freaks and Geeks" days, Seth Rogen and James Franco seem to make every effort to work together, most famously in "Pineapple Express," and most recently in "This is the End." They'll return in the upcoming comedy about North Korea (yes, you read that right) titled "The Interview." Hide Caption 16 of 16"By no means do we wish to erase or destroy the current carving, which, regardless of its context, is an impressive and historic work of art. We simply wish to add new carvings, of Atlanta hip-hop duo Outkast, to the mountainside. There's plenty of room."Williams acknowledges that the monument poses different challenges than does the Confederate flag itself, which has been the topic of hot debate across the South since Dylann Roof admitted to killing nine parishioners at a black church in Charleston, South Carolina."If you're flying a Confederate flag above a government building, that's simple. Don't do that. But a football field-sized, epic carving on the side of a mountain? Maybe we need to have a conversation about why it's there and what it means today."As for those who have sent him nasty messages or hammered out hateful comments below the local media's online stories, Williams said he understands."Racist people are scared right now in America. Your way of thinking is going extinct."