Story highlights Trial is set for July 11, 2016Attorney says Dylann Roof is competent to stand trialProsecutors have not ruled out the possibility of seeking the death penalty(CNN) A South Carolina judge Thursday set a trial date for accused Charleston church shooter Dylann Roof.The trial is set to start July 11, 2016.Roof faces a myriad of charges in connection with the June 17 Bible study attack at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. Nine people were killed, including the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, who also was a state senator.Roof, 21, was captured in North Carolina the day after the attack and was brought back to South Carolina. Law enforcement officials have said that he admitted to the killings.Photos: Manifesto photos feature Dylann Roof Photos: Manifesto photos feature Dylann Roof A website featuring a racist manifesto and 60 photos has become part of the investigation into Dylann Roof , who has been charged in the slaying of nine people at Charleston's Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church on June 17. Hide Caption 1 of 5 Photos: Manifesto photos feature Dylann Roof Three photos show Roof posing with a pistol. One closeup shows a gun that can be identified as a .45-caliber Glock -- the model of gun investigators say was used in the church shooting. Those photos were taken in April, after his 21st birthday, when his family said he purchased a .45-caliber gun. Hide Caption 2 of 5 Photos: Manifesto photos feature Dylann Roof It's not clear who took any of the 60 photos, which were shot between August 3, 2014, and June 17, with the majority shot in March and April. Roof appears alone in many of them, never smiling. The other pictures show objects or landscapes and no other people. Hide Caption 3 of 5 Photos: Manifesto photos feature Dylann Roof Photos taken May 11 show Roof burning and spitting on an American flag. Another May 11 photo shows him holding a small Confederate flag. Hide Caption 4 of 5 Photos: Manifesto photos feature Dylann Roof Motive has become the biggest question as state and federal investigators work on the case -- and statements and photos on the website match what investigators have determined so far. Hide Caption 5 of 5Prosecutors have not ruled out the possibility of seeking the death penalty.Read More