Story highlights Seau's daughter Sydney will not be making a speech at the ceremonyThe Hall of Fame says this is according to policySeau's family filed a lawsuit against the NFL in 2013(CNN) Junior Seau's family will not be able to speak during his induction to the Pro Football Hall of Fame on August 8. Instead, the famed linebacker will be honored by a video presentation, in what the Hall of Fame says is standard procedure for dead players.Seau killed himself in May 2012 and was posthumously diagnosed with chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a brain disease that can result from repeated head trauma. His tragic case increased scrutiny of NFL policies regarding concussions and player safety. Seau's family filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the league in 2013.The particulars of Seau's induction ceremony have caused some confusion and debate, heightened by the controversy surrounding his death. Seau wanted his daughter Sydney to present him if he were ever chosen for the Hall of Fame, and a press release from the organization earlier this month implied that Sydney would indeed be the presenter. Sydney expressed frustration at not being able to speak at the event to The New York Times: "I just want to give the speech he would have given. It wasn't going to be about this mess. My speech was solely about him."Junior Seau as a San Diego Charger in 1996. Seau also played for the Dolphins and Patriots.The Hall of Fame, however, said that in honoring the late Seau it is following a policy initiated in 2010. According to a statement released Friday, the ceremony features "expanded presenting video (longer than the videos of living inductees) followed by the traditional unveiling of the bronzed bust and no additional comments made from the podium."In an email to CNN, Joe Horrigan, executive vice president and chief communications officer at the Hall of Fame, said the decision to not have the family speak was made "strictly on the policy" and "has nothing to do with any other circumstances." Horrigan acknowledged that there was some miscommunication that led Sydney Seau to believe she would be speaking, but he said that has been fully resolved after a phone call. He said Sydney is a presenter in the sense that she is included in the presenting video.Read More