(CNN) Prisoner escapee Richard Matt wrote a letter to his daughter. Greece has a big decision to make Sunday. And an ISIS 'emir' is killed.It's Friday, and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day:PRISON BREAKWhen Richard Matt broke out of prison, he was looking forward to seeing his daughter. "I always promised you I would see you on the outside," he wrote to her in a letter. She received it in the mail three days after he and fellow inmate David Sweat escaped from the Clinton Correctional Facility in upstate New York, according to The Buffalo News. He did not keep his promise. Police shot him dead after he aimed a 20-gauge shotgun at an officer.ISIS'Emir' killed: A senior ISIS leader known as A senior ISIS leader known as the "emir of suicide bombers" was killed by a coalition airstrike in Syria, a U.S. official said. He played a key logistical role for ISIS, overseeing efforts to get jihadists and weapons into Iraq and Syria to fuel the militant organization's war machine.JUST WATCHED Pentagon: Senior ISIS figure killed in airstrike Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pentagon: Senior ISIS figure killed in airstrike 01:43GREECE VOTEDecisions, decisions: Greece is facing a hideous choice: Greece is facing a hideous choice: A third massive international bailout with strict austerity attached, or more insolvency. Greeks are preparing to vote Sunday in a referendum on whether to accept a bailout offer from Europe and the International Monetary Fund. European leaders say a "no" vote would show Greece is unable to carry out necessary reforms. Then a default could be around the corner.JUST WATCHED Greek negotiator: 'There's always a point of democracy' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Greek negotiator: 'There's always a point of democracy' 08:35ISS SUPPLIESWelcome sight: Resupply missions to the International Space Station rarely fail -- let alone twice in row, like the last two did. That may make the arrival of the Resupply missions to the International Space Station rarely fail -- let alone twice in row, like the last two did. That may make the arrival of the Russian cargo spacecraft that launched Friday all the more welcome. It was on course to deliver 5,249 pounds (2,381 kilograms) of supplies to the ISS on Sunday. They include food, water, oxygen, fuel and scientific apparatuses.Russian Progress rocket launches on resupply mission to the International Space Station.BALTIMORE SIGNSWords hurt: With tensions still simmering in Baltimore over the death of Freddie Gray in police custody, photos have emerged of a With tensions still simmering in Baltimore over the death of Freddie Gray in police custody, photos have emerged of a sign on the door of one the city's police transport vans that reads, "Enjoy your ride, cuz we sure will!" The city's police department was quick to criticize the sign, which it told CNN affiliate WBAL was real. "The nature and the posting of the wording is both concerning and unacceptable," Baltimore City Police Sgt. Jarron Jackson told CNN.