(CNN) One co-owned a gift and toy shop. Another was a college student who also worked at a women's clothing store and planned to start radiology school in the coming days.Jillian Johnson, 33, and Mayci Breaux, 21, were among those shot Thursday night by a gunman at a Lafayette, Louisiana, movie theater at a showing of the Amy Schumer comedy, "Trainwreck."Jillian Johnson, 33, was killed in the Lafayette theater shooting, police Chief Jim Craft said.Breaux, of Franklin, Louisiana, was shot dead at the scene, and Johnson, who was from Lafayette, died a short time later at a hospital, Lafayette police Chief Jim Craft said."Don't lose sight of the fact that these two individuals had a vision, had a name, had a future," said Col. Michael Edmonson of the Louisiana State Police. "It wasn't to die as they did horribly in this theater here."Of the nine others injured, one was in critical condition Friday afternoon, and two had been released, Craft said. Authorities identified the gunman as 59-year-old John Russell "Rusty" HouserAn online business profile identifies Johnson as the co-owner of the Red Arrow Workshop. The business is described as a gift, apparel, accessories and toy shop. Johnson owned the shop with her husband, Jason Brown, the website says.She was "obsessed with Fats Waller," and her all-time favorite movie was "Coal Miner's Daughter," according to the site."Pretty much any time you go in, she is there and doing work," a friend, Caitlin Sonnier, said of Johnson's presence at the shop. "She was very devoted to it."Johnson was also part of a band, the Figs, which was at the "forefront of a movement of a younger generation embracing Cajun/folk music traditions and making them popular and 'cool' again," Molly Rowe, who knew her, said via email."She was ... a phenomenal musician, which is what most of the community knew her for," Rowe said.I have no words. Only this short video from Saturday's performance by The Figs. #prayforlafayette Posted by Matthew Thibodeaux on Friday, July 24, 2015A friend and band member, Caroline Helm, said in a statement that news of Johnson's death was devastating."I wish there were words to penetrate the hearts of the people watching or listening (to) the news and to make them understand the kind of person Jillian was," Helm said. "Jillian made everything more beautiful. She worked to make Lafayette a more beautiful place, and one of the most tragic things that has ever happened here took her. She was a mother, a wife, a sister, an artist, a collaborator, a band member, a friend to so many."@redarrownola So much love to Jason, Bram, and all of the lives that Jillian touched. She was a rockstar human being. #LafayetteStrong #NOLA A photo posted by Kelley Anderson (@akelleya) on Jul 24, 2015 at 7:31am PDTKimberly Wooten said the impression Johnson made on people was lasting."She was a creative being," Wooten said. "She made life better, from what she said ... from her hand to what she made. Her and her husband are just such a presence here in Lafayette, and Lafayette has become such a better place just for not only Jillian but her entire family."The Red Arrow Workshop posted a message on its Facebook page."Our hearts are shattered," the post said. "We will love you forever. She was a once-in-a-lifetime gal. A mother, daughter, sister and a truly exceptional wife. She was an artist, a musician, an entrepreneur and a true renaissance woman. She was the love of my life and I will miss her always."Tributes to Johnson appeared on her Facebook pageE. Joseph Savoie, president of the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, offered thoughts and prayers for the families and friends of the victims. Johnson graduated from the university in 2004."The entire campus mourns the loss of lives in our Lafayette community," Savoie said in a statement.The statement said Johnson founded apparel store Parish Ink in downtown Lafayette and River Ranch as well as Red Arrow Workshop in Lafayette and New Orleans. She had been a producer at KRVS, a National Public Radio affiliate on campus."Jillian Johnson was a much-loved creative talent known throughout the community," Savoie said.She had plans to attend radiology schoolBreaux attended Louisiana State University-Eunice, according to LSU President F. King Alexander.We mourn the loss of Mayci Breaux, an @LSU_Eunice student killed in last night's theater shootings. Prayers to her family and friends. — F. King Alexander (@lsuprez) July 24, 2015She was supposed to start radiology school at Lafayette General Hospital in the coming days, said David Callecod, president of Lafayette General Health. She toured the hospital and met staff two weeks ago."All the folks in this very close-knit community have been affected by the horrific events," Callecod said, adding that Johnson was well-known to the hospital staff. "We're very close-knit here at Lafayette General, and we certainly had many ties to the victims as well."Mayci Breaux, 21, a student, was killed in the theater shooting.Breaux also worked at Coco Eros, a women's clothing store in Lafayette. Her employer posted on Facebook that "many of you had come to know and love Mayci" during her time working there."Nothing ever prepares you for a loss... Much less the loss of such an amazing young woman," the Coco Eros post said. "We are deeply saddened."The store was closed Friday "in memory of our beloved friend," Breaux's employer posted on Facebook.Breaux's boyfriend of about three years, Matthew Rodriguez, was shot in the neck and armpit, according to his cousin."Although he's in a lot of pain right now, it is nothing compared to the mental anguish he's going through," said the cousin, Patrice Rodriguez Picard. "The whole family is completely distraught."