It's Friday, and here are five things to know for your new day.MH370: Plane debris found near a remote Indian Ocean island will be sent to France today for further analysis. Officials are increasingly confident the debris is from a Boeing 777, most likely Malaysia Airlines Flight 370. Boeing investigators think the debris is a right wing flaperon from a 777. It's unclear how or when the identification process will be completed and announced. Yesterday an assessment by U.S. intelligence agencies says someone in the cockpit deliberately caused the aircraft's movement before it disappeared.CAMPAIGN 2016Trump on top: He keeps saying outrageous things, and he keeps rising to the top of the polls. In the latest one, from Quinnipiac University, Trump has a He keeps saying outrageous things, and he keeps rising to the top of the polls. In the latest one, from Quinnipiac University, Trump has a significant lead over his closet rivals. He tops the 17-person GOP field at 20%. He may be leading the pack, but Trump insists he's going to keep doing things his way. Need evidence? He's promised kids free rides on his private helicopter at next month's Iowa State Fair, a must-attend event for presidential hopefuls. And remember, all eyes will be on The Donald when the first GOP debate kicks off next week.JUST WATCHED New poll: Trump in 1st, Jeb in 3rd place Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New poll: Trump in 1st, Jeb in 3rd place 02:21GAY PRIDE PARADE STABBINGShocking repeat: Ten years ago, an Orthodox Jew stabbed marchers at a gay pride parade in Jerusalem. Yesterday, police said Ten years ago, an Orthodox Jew stabbed marchers at a gay pride parade in Jerusalem. Yesterday, police said he did it again . Israeli authorities said Yishai Shlissel wounded six people in the latest attack, which happened just three weeks after Shlissel got out of prison for stabbing three marchers in a Jerusalem gay pride parade in 2005. Shlissel was arrested; Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called the attack "a despicable hate crime."JUST WATCHED Jerusalem: Gay Pride parade attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jerusalem: Gay Pride parade attack 01:58GOOD SAMARITANS KILLEDNo good deed: You see someone stranded on the side of the road, and you stop to help. It's something lots of folks do. But that act of kindness cost two members of a Montana family their lives earlier this week, when the person they stopped to help shot them. The You see someone stranded on the side of the road, and you stop to help. It's something lots of folks do. But that act of kindness cost two members of a Montana family their lives earlier this week, when the person they stopped to help shot them. The mother and father were killed ; their adult daughter was shot as well, but she managed to escape. An 18-year-old man was arrested and has an appearance in federal court today. And what was the motive for such a senseless killing? The suspect told FBI agents he was "tired of waiting around" and the daughter had laughed at him.BALTIMORE CITY JAILBad to the bone: Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan announced yesterday he's Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan announced yesterday he's closing down the Baltimore City Jail , what he called the worst jail in America. How bad? Well, let's review: A 2013 federal indictment charged 44 people, including 27 correctional officers, for operating a criminal organization within the jail. A notorious gang leader basically ran his empire from the jail. And he impregnated four guards, who were smuggling contraband for him. Yeah, that bad. Hogan said inmates and correctional workers will be transferred to other facilities as soon as possible.