It's Monday, and here are five things to know for your new day.BOBBI KRISTINA BROWN: Bobbi Kristina Brown, the daughter of Whitney Houston and Bobby Brown, died last night . She had been in a hospital and then a hospice since she was found unresponsive and not breathing in the bathtub of her home back in late January. A criminal investigation was soon launched into how she ended up in the tub. Her family, in a statement released last night, said Brown was "at peace in the arms of God."JUST WATCHED Daughter of Whitney Houston, Bobbi Kristina Brown, dies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Daughter of Whitney Houston, Bobbi Kristina Brown, dies 02:04MISSING TEENSBoat found: The 19-foot boat that two missing teens had been traveling in was discovered Sunday. The The 19-foot boat that two missing teens had been traveling in was discovered Sunday. The vessel was found capsized 67 nautical miles off Florida's eastern coast. Coast Guard crews have been searching for the teens -- Perry Cohen and Austin Stephanos, both 14 -- since Friday, when they set off on a fishing trip.JUST WATCHED Coast Guard continues search for missing Florida teens Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Coast Guard continues search for missing Florida teens 02:07CAMPAIGN 2016Still rising: So much for that "Trump is losing momentum" meme. Donald Trump, in a new CNN/ORC poll, So much for that "Trump is losing momentum" meme. Donald Trump, in a new CNN/ORC poll, leads the GOP field with 18% support. And this comes after his controversial remarks about John McCain's war record. Looks like The Donald's going to be around for a while. Meanwhile, Mike Huckabee is the latest presidential candidate to play the "let's say something controversial" game. Huckabee, while blasting the Iran nuclear deal, said yesterday that President Obama was marching Israel to " the door of the oven ," an obvious reference to the Holocaust. No, that didn't go over well with a lot of people, and no, Huckabee didn't apologize. In fact, he later highlighted his comment on Twitter.Tell Congress to do their constitutional duty & reject the Obama-Kerry #IranDeal --> http://t.co/SaIyuq4w01 pic.twitter.com/2rFJgdDHhV — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) July 26, 2015TRINIDAD PRISON BREAKIt's over: Christoper "Monster" Selby -- one of three prison escapees in Trinidad and Tobago -- Christoper "Monster" Selby -- one of three prison escapees in Trinidad and Tobago -- turned himself in to authorities Sunday . Selby's surrender comes after the other two escapees were shot dead while on the run. The three men escaped Friday afternoon from a Port of Spain prison. One of them, Allan "Scanny" Martin, was shot dead by police shortly after the escape. A second escapee, Hassan Atwell, was found shot to death early yesterday, but it's not clear who killed him.JUST WATCHED Brazen prison escape caught on camera Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Brazen prison escape caught on camera 01:00AUTO INDUSTRY