Centennial, Colorado (CNN) Twelve people who'd gone to a Colorado movie theater for an evening's entertainment never came home. Seventy who'd wanted to see "The Dark Knight Rises" found themselves wounded in an all-too-real barrage of gunfire. And one man, James Holmes, was responsible for it all.There's no question that Holmes walked into the crowded Aurora theater and unleashed a torrent of bullets on unsuspecting moviegoers on July 20, 2012.What is in question is if he'll be found guilty of the bloodshed and, if so, what penalty he'll face.Jurors began deliberating his fate Wednesday, one day after attorneys from both sides offered their closing argumentsThere's no clear timetable on when a decision will be reached on Holmes and the 165 charges he faces. But when it comes, it will close a chapter in what has been a long, grueling journey -- more than 11 weeks of trial, about six months after the start of jury selection, and some three years after the nightmare began for families in and around the suburban Denver community.By virtue of his pleading not guilty by reason of insanity , the now 27-year-old Holmes has never denied he was behind the killing.But given his mental state, his lawyers contend that he should not be found culpable."The evidence is clear that he could not control his thoughts, ... he could not control his actions, and he could not control his perceptions," defense attorney Dan King said during closing arguments. "... Only the mental illness caused this to happen and nothing else."Yet prosecutors -- who called more than 200 witnesses to the stand, among them investigators, students who knew Holmes and his ex-girlfriend -- insisted the shooter knew very well what he was doing. He acted deliberately, if diabolically, to deliver pain and his mental issues shouldn't excuse him from paying the price, they argued."Look at the evidence, then hold this man accountable," Arapahoe County District Attorney George Brauchler said. "Reject this claim that he didn't know right from wrong when he murdered those people and tried to kill the others..."That guy was sane beyond a reasonable doubt, and he needs to be held accountable for what he did."'Like a deer in the headlights'Having bought a ticket 12 days earlier, Holmes walked into the theater #9 screening of "The Dark Night Rises" like other patrons. He then walked out through a rear door, which he left propped open.Just after midnight, some 18 minutes after the movie began, he returned wearing a ballistic helmet, a gas mask, black gloves and protective gear for his legs, throat and groin.Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Cynthia Davis, center, visits the roadside memorial set up for victims of the Colorado shooting massacre across the street from the Century 16 movie theater on Monday, July 30, 2012, in Aurora, Colorado. Twelve people were killed in the theater early July 20, 2012, during a screening of "The Dark Knight Rises." Suspect James Holmes was taken into custody shortly after the attack. More photos: Colorado movie theater shooting Hide Caption 1 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims People visit the roadside memorial set up for victims of the massacre on Monday. Hide Caption 2 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Visitors pray around a cross at the memorial across the street from the theater on Saturday, July 28. Hide Caption 3 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Jeremy Blocker displays a new tattoo honoring the victims. Hide Caption 4 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Members of Alex Sullivan's family embrace at a memorial across the street from the Century 16 movie theater on Thursday, July 26. Hide Caption 5 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Hello Kitty-themed flowers are sent to shooting victim Micayla Medek's funeral Thursday in Denver. Hide Caption 6 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Pallbearers carry Micayla Medek's coffin during her funeral at the New Hope Baptist Church on Thursday. Hide Caption 7 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims People visit a memorial across the street from the Century 16 movie theater on Thursday, July 26, in Aurora, Colorado. Hide Caption 8 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Angella Aquilis, left, and Maria Olivas mourn together at a makeshift memorial across the street from the Century 16 movie theater Wedesday, July 25. Hide Caption 9 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Yvonne Amaro, 9, prays for those injured and killed as she visits the memorial on Wednesday. Hide Caption 10 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Carrie Hensley, left, and Hailee Hensley mourn together on Wednesday. Hide Caption 11 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Kevin Flynn, left, Aurora Police top brass division chief, and Cmdr. Jack Daluz visit the makeshift memorial. Hide Caption 12 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A couple embraces as "Dark Knight Rises" star Christian Bale and his wife, Sandra Blazic, wait to place flowers at the memorial on Tuesday. Hide Caption 13 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Bale places flowers at the memorial while other mourners look on. Hide Caption 14 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Visitors pay tribute Tuesday, July 24, at the makeshift memorial. Hide Caption 15 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A cross stands at the makeshift memorial for victims across the street from the Century 16 theater on Tuesday. Hide Caption 16 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Greg Zanis of Aurora, Illinois, carries two of the 12 crosses he made for a makeshift memorial to the victims of last weekend's mass shooting at the Century 16 movie theater on Sunday, July 22. Hide Caption 17 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Greg Zanis writes the names of the victims of last weekend's mass shooting on the crosses before erecting them at the memorial across from the Century 16 movie theater on Sunday. Zanis, a carpenter, drove all night from Illinois to deliver the crosses. Hide Caption 18 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Parishioners pray during morning Mass, remembering victims of the theater shooting, at the Queen of Peace Catholic Church on Sunday. Hide Caption 19 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Angie Terry of Alabama prays next to a white wooden cross erected for victims. Hide Caption 20 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A man pauses before the crosses at the memorial near the Century 16 movie theater on Sunday. Hide Caption 21 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims President Barack Obama embraces Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper as Sen. Mark Udall, left, and Sen. Michael Bennet look on during a visit to the University of Colorado Hospital on Sunday. Hide Caption 22 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Mourners bow their heads in prayer during the vigil for the victims of the Aurora shooting. Hide Caption 23 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A woman is overcome with emotion during the vigil. Hide Caption 24 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Tiffany Garcia, right, and her 6-year-old daughter, Angelina Garcia, cry on Saturday, July 21, as they look at a memorial for the victims of Friday's shooting. Hide Caption 25 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims People pray at a cross erected at the makeshift memorial across the street from the Century 16 theater on Saturday. Hide Caption 26 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Family, friends and former classmates of movie theater shooting victim A.J. Boik gather for a memorial service at Gateway High School on Saturday. Hide Caption 27 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Boik and his girlfriend were at the midnight showing of 'The Dark Knight Rises' when a gunman killed Boik and 11 other people. Hide Caption 28 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Movie theater shooting victim A.J. Boik's girlfriend, Lasamoa Croft, center, embraces his mother during the memorial service. Hide Caption 29 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Eman Alexander, 17, pins a ribbon on his shirt while joining family, friends and former classmates to honor shooting victim A.J. Boik. Hide Caption 30 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Denise Toepel of Denver sheds tears while visiting a makeshift memorial across the street from the Century 16 movie theater on Saturday, July 21. Hide Caption 31 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Handwritten signs decorate the makeshift memorial across from the Century 16 movie theater on Saturday. Hide Caption 32 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Gerald Wright, 24, relights candles that have blown out at the victims' memorial across from the movie theater. Hide Caption 33 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Aviation Boatswain's Mate 3rd Class Jajuan Mangual lowers the American flag on the flight deck of the aircraft carrier USS George H.W. Bush to half-mast on Saturday. One U.S. Navy sailor was killed in the shooting and another injured. Hide Caption 34 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Two women mourn near the theater on Saturday. Hide Caption 35 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Alicia Prevette, left, and Paul Stepherson attend a vigil for the victims Friday at the Century 16 movie theater. Hide Caption 36 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A woman lights a candle at a makeshift memorial where the victims of the massacre are mourned. Hide Caption 37 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Mourners hold hands at a vigil near the theater. Hide Caption 38 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Mourners hug as they grieve the loss of the victims. Hide Caption 39 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A group of teenagers stand behind a sign that reads "Strength." Hide Caption 40 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Dara Anderson, left, and Monique Anderson cry during a candlelight vigil across the street from the crime scene. Hide Caption 41 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A woman holds a lit candle at a makeshift memorial. Hide Caption 42 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Marietta Perkins of Denver prays for victims and their families. Hide Caption 43 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Lonnie Delgado, right, hugs Heaven Leek during a prayer. Hide Caption 44 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A mourner grieves on the curb during a memorial service. Hide Caption 45 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims People hug during a vigil for the victims. Hide Caption 46 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Handwritten consolation letters lie beneath flowers at a makeshift memorial. Hide Caption 47 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Nathan Mendoza, left, and Melissa Clark sit on the grass during a vigil. Hide Caption 48 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Flags, flowers and candles make up a memorial site. Hide Caption 49 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Two mourners sit on the ground at a vigil. Hide Caption 50 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A sign prevents moviegoers from wearing masks or bringing in props to the AMC Arapahoe Crossing 16 movie theater in Aurora. Hide Caption 51 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A woman looks at a makeshift memorial after attending a candlelight vigil. Hide Caption 52 of 52A tear gas canister exploded in the theater, then gunfire erupted from an AR-15 rifle, a 12-gauge shotgun and at least one .40 caliber handgun. The real-life horror story ended with Holmes' arrest outside the theater about seven minutes after the first 911 calls were made to police.During the trial, prosecutors detailed the nightmare, describing the scores of spent shells, pellets and casings, as well as the accompanying bullet holes. They played a graphic 45-minute video showing bloodied bodies scrawled across the floor and aisles, some contorted and others in fetal positions. They noted more than 200 live rounds were never fired, though it's hard for anyone to fathom it could have been worse."I was like a deer in the headlights. I froze. I wasn't able to process what was going on," Kimberly Avra testified of her reaction before a friend pulled her to the ground. "So I sat there and stared at it (the shooter)."JUST WATCHED Testimony from Aurora victim closes prosecution's case Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Testimony from Aurora victim closes prosecution's case 03:26Who was James Holmes?Prosecutors painted a picture of a once-promising neuroscience student who knew exactly what he was doing, both carrying out the attack and rigging his apartment with makeshift explosives ahead of authorities' arrival."Nothing was random," said FBI Special Agent Christopher Rigopoulos, who was part of the evidence collection team who saw how Holmes' apartment contained pickle jars filled with napalm and bullets linked together, plastic soda bottles filled with gasoline and other dangerous concoctions.Those who spent time with Holmes as a PhD student at the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora described him as quiet and socially awkward, but seemingly not "detached from reality."JUST WATCHED Inside the mind of James Holmes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Inside the mind of James Holmes 02:20Fellow student Jessica Cummiske recalled that one thing about Holmes' eyes really stood out. "There was more than one occasion where his pupils were completely blown out. It was shocking, stunning," she said.In fact, defense attorneys repeatedly highlighted Holmes' dilated eyes during cross-examination.But this line of defense is controversial. For more than 100 years, mental health experts have studied pupil dilation, but it hasn't yet proved to be a way to diagnose psychiatric conditions, according to Slate magazine and "The Handbook of Clinical Neurology."While many acquaintances, medical professionals and others weighed in on his mental state during the extensive trial, Holmes did not -- declining to testify on his own behalf.That leaves jurors to sort through all the evidence and testimony to decide for themselves if he was or was not sane.Psychiatrist: Admitted to 'homicidal thoughts'Holmes' lawyers never denied that their client was responsible for the mass shooting, one of the worst in U.S. history. Their argument throughout the trial was that he'd been mentally off all along.JUST WATCHED Psychiatrist: Holmes thought about killing people Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Psychiatrist: Holmes thought about killing people 01:36Yet the psychiatrist explained that she didn't place him in a psychiatric hold because he never disclosed his intention to kill or named a target. Nor did he talk about feeling manic or depressed or seeing "flickerings" or other hallucinations, as he did in a notebook Holmes mailed to her.Dr. Jeffrey Metzner, a court-appointed psychiatrist, testified that "despite having mental disease or defect, Mr. Holmes (could) tell the difference between right from wrong.""It is my opinion," Metzner said, "that Mr. Holmes, at the time of the commission of the alleged acts, met the criteria for legal sanity."When pressed by the defense -- which addressed during the trial the depths of Holmes' psychosis and delusions, asserting that he has schizophrenia -- Metzner added that the shooting was a direct result of mental illness. Lawyer Daniel King then asked if the shooting wouldn't have taken plane if not for Holmes' condition.Correct again, the psychiatrist stated.Mother: 'Mentally ill ... need treatment, not execution'If the jurors decide to convict Holmes on multiple murder charges, the next question would be what price he'll pay."It is my determination and my intention that in this case, for James Eagan Holmes, justice is death," Brauchler said then.The shooter's parents, Robert and Arlene Holmes, were regulars in court during their son's trial. They were there again Tuesday, packed into the room alongside survivors and family members of some of the dead.They have not talked to reporters. But they have written two open letters and published a prayer book detailing the family's internal struggle and pleading for their son's life.In a December 2014 letter published in the Denver Pos t, the couple said "we have spent every moment for more than two years thinking about those who were injured, and the families and friends of the deceased who were killed, in the theater shooting in Aurora."We are always praying for everyone in Aurora. We wish that July 20, 2012, never happened."Still, while they don't deny James Holmes was behind the carnage, the parents said they didn't think he should have been put on trial, much less be convicted and possibly face the death penalty, given his mental state."(James Holmes) is not a monster. He is a human being gripped by a severe mental illness," his parents wrote. "We believe that the death penalty is morally wrong, especially when the condemned is mentally ill."