(CNN) Western powers and Iran reach a nuclear deal. New York City settles with Eric Garner's family. And a blues legend was NOT poisoned.It's Tuesday, and here are five things to know for your New Day.IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL: After almost two years of negotiations, Iran and Western powers have reached a deal over its nuclear program. Representatives from the European Union and Iran were expected to issue a statement on the deal early this morning. The Obama administration has been pushing hard for a deal, but it is expected to face intense opposition from Republicans (and some Democrats) in Congress, as well as from some allies in Israel.JUST WATCHED Diplomats: Iran, major powers strike nuclear deal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Diplomats: Iran, major powers strike nuclear deal 02:31ERIC GARNERSettlement but no liability: Almost a year to the day he died, Eric Garner's family accepted a Almost a year to the day he died, Eric Garner's family accepted a $5.9 million settlement from New York City. Despite the multimillion dollar amount, the city did not admit liability. Garner's death -- at the hands of New York police officers, who put him in an apparent chokehold while arresting him for allegedly illegally selling cigarettes -- triggered protests and reforms in how police do their jobs, especially in minority communities.Demonstrators rally against police brutality in memory of Eric Garner on August 23, 2014 in Staten Island, New York.MEXICAN DRUG KINGPIN ESCAPESBig reward: Mexico offered up a Mexico offered up a $3.8 million reward yesterday to get Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman back behind bars. "El Chapo" slipped out of a hole in a prison shower Saturday night and escaped through a mile-long tunnel. The prison's director was fired and police released an updated photo of Guzman, this time without his trademark mustache.Joaquin "El Chapo" GuzmanTRANSGENDER BANBig changes?: The Pentagon The Pentagon may lift the ban on transgender people openly serving in the military in the next couple of months. The White House has been pressing the Pentagon to go ahead and lift the ban, but military officials want time to determine how several medical and legal issues will be dealt with. Defense Secretary Ash Carter wants to spend the next six month studying the issue.JUST WATCHED 2013: SEAL is transgender 'Warrior Princess' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2013: SEAL is transgender 'Warrior Princess' 01:44B.B. KINGNot poisoned: That's what a That's what a Nevada coroner said yesterday as an investigation into blues legend B.B. King's death wrapped up. Alzheimer's disease was named the primary cause of his death, along with other health issues. Two of King's 11 children claimed after he died in May that his business manager and personal assistant had poisoned him with "foreign substances."