(CNN) Bill Cosby admits getting drugs to give to women. South Carolina lawmakers vote on the Confederate flag. And this is the deadline for an Iran nuclear deal.It's Tuesday, and here are the "5 things to know for your New Day."COSBY ALLEGATIONSHis accusers are screaming, "yes." Bill Cosby admitted under oath that he got quaaludes for the purpose of giving the drug to young women with whom he wanted to have sex, newly released documents show. The documents from 2005 come from a lawsuit filed by a woman who has accused the comedian of sexual assault. The records were made public yesterday after The Associated Press went to court to force their release. More than 25 women have accused Cosby of assaulting them over the past 40 years. Most of the allegations have passed statutes of limitations, preventing criminal legal action. Efforts to talk to Cosby's attorney were unsuccessful.SOUTH CAROLINA CONFEDERATE FLAGFlagging popularity: South Carolina lawmakers vote today on a bill to South Carolina lawmakers vote today on a bill to remove the Confederate flag from statehouse grounds . A preliminary version of the measure passed on a 37-3 vote. The bill needs a two-thirds majority vote to pass and move to the House for approval. If it clears both chambers, it will land on the desk of Gov. Nikki Haley, who has called for the flag to come down after last month's deadly shooting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston.JUST WATCHED S.C. begins process of removing Confederate flag Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH S.C. begins process of removing Confederate flag 01:36NEW YORK PRISON BREAKWhat should happen to Sweat now? A disciplinary A disciplinary hearing is in the offing for New York prison escapee David Sweat . A source in the New York Department of Corrections told CNN that the hearing will be closed to the public. It could be weeks before we know the outcome. Meanwhile, Sweat will be held in solitary confinement. He and his partner in crime, Richard Matt, escaped from the Clinton Correctional Facility in early June. Matt was shot and killed in upstate New York. Sweat was shot and apprehended a few days later, just a few miles from the Canadian border.JUST WATCHED Prison worker destroyed pills in plot to kill husband Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Prison worker destroyed pills in plot to kill husband 03:42IRAN NUCLEAR DEALDeal or no deal? This is deadline day in the Iran nuclear talks. The United States and its Western allies are trying to secure a deal that would This is deadline day in the Iran nuclear talks. The United States and its Western allies are trying to secure a deal that would prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon , although Iran has long insisted that its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes. International sanctions have crippled Iran's economy, and Tehran wants those lifted. Will a deal be announced today? It's hard to say, but if not, all the parties involved could agree to extend talks, as they have many times before. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry says tough decisions need to be made.JUST WATCHED World powers, Iran struggling to meet nuclear deadline Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH World powers, Iran struggling to meet nuclear deadline 01:18CLINTON INTERVIEWParty favorite: We see her everywhere, but today will be the first nationally televised interview of We see her everywhere, but today will be the first nationally televised interview of Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign . CNN senior political correspondent Brianna Keilar will do the honors. The Democratic front-runner has largely stayed away from the media, only occasionally taking questions from reporters and granting interviews to local news outlets in early-voting states like Iowa and New Hampshire. Clinton has granted no interviews to national outlets since officially announcing for the White House in April.