San Francisco (CNN) It's been a brutal year so far for California's infrastructure.Swinging from a five-year drought to massive rainfall has pummeled the state's structures and roads. Damage to the state highway system is estimated to exceed $1 billion, according to the California Department of Transportation's estimates.Here's what lies in ruins: portions of Pacific Coast Highway buried under landslides, a disintegrated spillway and a cracked bridge.Mud Creek landslide- Pacific Coast HighwayRepair cost: UnknownA monster of a landslide buried a quarter-mile section of the scenic coastal highway in California's Big Sur region.More than a million tons of rock and dirt fell Saturday onto the Pacific Coast Highway, the main artery running through Big Sur. The section is about 60 miles south of Monterey.The Mud Creek landslide covered the road, also known as State Route 1, in a 35-40 feet deep layer of dirt for about 1,500 feet. There were no injuries as the highway had been closed at that spot -- almost continuously since January -- because of landslides caused by unusually heavy rainfall.The slide left a pile of earth about 35 to 40 feet high covering the highway.The latest slide is the largest by far, and authorities said they don't know when it can be cleared.Caltrans listed at least 10 landslide sites in need of repair on State Route 1 in Monterey County with estimates reaching $55 million. This sum excludes the latest landslide.Oroville DamRepair cost: more than $274 millionUnder heavy rainfall, the primary spillway that handles the overflow at the Oroville Dam eroded and formed a hole almost the size of a football field.As the damaged spillway along with the backup channel struggled to handle the influx of water earlier this year, authorities feared that Lake Oroville was on the verge of overflow, threatening communities downstream. About 188,000 residents of Butte, Sutter and Yuba counties were evacuated in February. They returned to their homes four days later.The concrete primary spillway remains splintered as crews have begun repairs.California is borrowing up to $500 million to pay for repairs. The state hasn't given an estimate for how much the project will cost, according to Capital Public Radio . In April, the Trump administration approved $274 million in federal funding for repairs.Photos: Damage to Oroville Dam spillway sparks flood fears Water gushes over the primary spillway at Oroville Dam in Northern California. At least 188,000 people have been evacuated from nearby counties in recent days after erosion caused damage to two spillways and, combined with recent heavy rains, sparked fears of possible flooding. Hide Caption 1 of 9 Photos: Damage to Oroville Dam spillway sparks flood fears California Highway Patrol officer Ken Weckman directs evacuation traffic in Marysville, California on Sunday, February 12. An evacuation order was issued for several Northern California counties after heavy rainfall filled Lake Oroville to the verge of overflow. Hide Caption 2 of 9 Photos: Damage to Oroville Dam spillway sparks flood fears Water flows over an emergency spillway (bottom right) at Lake Oroville Dam on Saturday, February 11. The damage has affected both the primary and the emergency spillways, which serve as channels to drain water from the lake to prevent overflow. Hide Caption 3 of 9 Photos: Damage to Oroville Dam spillway sparks flood fears Jason Newton of the California Department of Water Resources photographs water flowing over the emergency spillway alongside the dam on Saturday, February 11. Hide Caption 4 of 9 Photos: Damage to Oroville Dam spillway sparks flood fears Water gushes over the main spillway at Oroville Dam on February 11. Hide Caption 5 of 9 Photos: Damage to Oroville Dam spillway sparks flood fears Floodwaters from the nearby Feather River inundate Marysville Cemetery in Marysville, California on February 11. Marysville is downriver from Oroville and would be affected by any uncontrolled release of water from the dam. Hide Caption 6 of 9 Photos: Damage to Oroville Dam spillway sparks flood fears Workers from the Department of Water Resources and members of the media watch as water flows over the main spillway of the Oroville Dam on Wednesday, February 8. Hide Caption 7 of 9 Photos: Damage to Oroville Dam spillway sparks flood fears Workers inspect a hole that developed in the main spillway on Wednesday, February 8. Hide Caption 8 of 9 Photos: Damage to Oroville Dam spillway sparks flood fears Chunks of concrete are seen breaking off in the dam's primary spillway on Tuesday, February 7. Lake Oroville managers stopped sending water over the spillway Tuesday after noticing the damage caused by erosion. Hide Caption 9 of 9Pfeiffer Canyon BridgeCost: estimated $26.5 millionThe bridge cracked after heavy rains caused a landslide that damaged one of its main support columns.After closing the bridge in February, crews demolished the structure to make room for a new steel plate girder bridge. The Pfeiffer Canyon Bridge connects drivers to Big Sur, and serves a popular tourist route on Pacific Coast Highway.Back on #Hwy1,contractors continue to excavate & prep for rebar next week for new Pfeiffer Cyn Bridge-Photos courtesy of B. Riggins, MNS Eng pic.twitter.com/11Tc94Sv1p — Caltrans District 5 (@CaltransD5) May 12, 2017Caltrans estimates that the new bridge will be ready in September.