(CNN) Today is Employee Health and Fitness Day. Did you know a six-hour workday could be good for you -- and your employer ? Here's what else you need to know today to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. White HouseThis. Feels. Different. Of all the controversies that have enveloped the Trump White House these past four months, this one's the most ominous. (CNN's Chris Cillizza calls it an "existential" threat .) Sources say ex-FBI chief James Comey documented in a memo the fact that President Trump asked him to stop investigating former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn . If that's true, lots of folks consider it obstruction of justice , a straight-up impeachable offense. Comey wrote that the request from Trump -- "I hope you can let this go" -- came during a meeting on February 14 in the Oval Office.The White House denied Trump said such a thing . Democrats ran for the nearest microphones to condemn Trump; Republicans pretty much disappeared. GOP Rep. Jason Chaffetz, chairman of the House oversight committee, said let's see the memo and anything else that's relevant (and Comey reportedly has written lots of memos about his conversations with Trump ).CNN's David Gergen says buckle up, because we're in "impeachment territory," and he should know it when he sees it. Gergen worked at the White House during Richard Nixon's Watergate scandal and Bill Clinton's impeachmentThis latest scandal -- is it too early to call it "memogate?" -- spooked the financial markets, as the dollar fell , but at least it turned everybody's attention away from the Russia saga -- and there's an update there too. Officials tell CNN that Israel was the source of some of the classified info that the President reportedly told the Russians last week in that infamous White House get-together.JUST WATCHED Why Trump's intel reveal could be dangerous Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Trump's intel reveal could be dangerous 02:032. Terror bulletinWhat Homeland Security calls one of the "most serious" threats to the nation since 9/11 isn't coming from overseas -- it's coming from right here at home . DHS renewed a bulletin warning of possible attacks from homegrown terrorists . The bulletin includes new information, like how terrorists might use vehicles to kill people in "ramming" attacks. Warnings about foreign terrorist fighters who may try to get into the US to carry out attacks or incite others to do so is also in the bulletin.3. Bill CosbyBill Cosby says he won't testify during his upcoming assault trial. It's the first time we've heard from the disgraced comedian in more than two years. In an interview with CNN's Michael Smerconish on his SiriusXM radio program, Cosby said the "piling on" of sexual assault and misconduct accusations from more than 50 women was "an impressive way" to tilt public opinion against him. He also said racism "could be" a factor in the charges against him. Jury selection in the trial for Cosby -- facing three felony indecent assault counts in a case involving a Temple University employee -- starts next week.JUST WATCHED Cosby calls sex assault allegations nefarious Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cosby calls sex assault allegations nefarious 02:264. FentanylJUST WATCHED How dangerous is Fentanyl? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How dangerous is Fentanyl? 00:485. Teen deathsMore than 3,000 adolescents die every day around the world from causes that are largely preventable . A new report from the World Health Organization says those deaths add up to more than 1.2 million fatalities among those aged 10 to 19. The leading cause was car crashes, followed by lower respiratory infections and self-harm. Where teens live makes a difference, too. Two-thirds of the deaths occur in Southeast Asia and Africa.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Love is in the air, part oneIt was a tough day at the White House, but not in the driveway. That's where a pair of crazy kids decided to get engagedLove is in the air, Part TwoShe's a Japanese princess. He played the "Prince of the Sea" in a tourism commercial. And she's tossing aside her royal status to marry himFerrari, anyone?It's a 150-foot-tall vending machine. For luxury cars. No further witty commentary needed.Retro reruns"Roseanne" is coming back to TV, and so is "American Idol," with Katy Perry as a new judge.Not science fictionAn infertile mouse got pregnant and gave birth thanks to an ovary made by a 3-D printer . Just let that one sink in for a sec.JUST WATCHED 3-D printed ovary helps mice give birth Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 3-D printed ovary helps mice give birth 00:54Workin' 9 to 5TODAY'S NUMBER$45 millionThat's how much Picasso's painting, "Femme assise, robe bleu," sold for at auction in New York. It was stolen by the Nazis during World War II.TODAY'S VIDEOSpicy challengeHere are 100 people swallowing a spoonful of cinnamon in less than a minute. Oh, the internet never disappoints. ( Click to viewAND FINALLY ...We know you love this newsletter -- and we love you. So we're trying something new this morning. We'll drop some trivia on you. Tweet the answer to @cnndoug. If you're the first reader to post the correct response, we'll mention your name in tomorrow's edition -- and maybe send you a little something.Question: Hi-ho! Disney's "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" turns 80 this year. Which of the stout guys' names comes last alphabetically?