(CNN) Tiger Woods' 2015 Mercedes-Benz showed signs of "fresh damage" on the driver's side of the vehicle when he was found asleep at the wheel the morning of his arrest on suspicion of driving under the influence, police records show.New documents released late Tuesday afternoon by Jupiter, Florida, police reveal that both tire rims on the driver's side of the Mercedes had minor damage and the front and rear tires on that side of the vehicle were flat.Police also observed damage to the bumper on the driver's side, white scrapes and scuffs on the rear bumper, and the passenger side rear taillight was not working, according to the documents.Jupiter police discovered Woods early Monday on the side of the road, with his car running, its brake lights illuminated and right turn signal flashing, according to the arrest report released earlier Tuesday. He was by himself and wearing his seat belt.The report said Woods had to be awakened and that his speech was slurred. Woods told police he was coming from golfing in Los Angeles and he didn't know where he was, the document said. According to the report, he later changed his story and asked how far he was from his house. Woods has a home on Jupiter Island.The report said Woods also told police he "takes several prescriptions."Woods took a Breathalyzer test, registering 0.000 on it, and a urine test, the report said. The report noted the golfer was cooperative.On Monday, Woods said in a statement that alcohol was not involved and that he had "an unexpected reaction to prescribed medications."In a statement to CNN and other media outlets, Woods, rehabbing from back surgery, said he did not realize the mix of medications "had affected me so strongly.""I understand the severity of what I did and I take full responsibility for my actions," Woods said.Woods is set to make his first court appearance July 5, according to records released Tuesday.Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Tiger Woods clinched his fifth Masters and 15th major title with victory at Augusta in April. Hide Caption 1 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows The former world No. 1 had not won the Masters since 2005, and it was his first major win since 2008. Hide Caption 2 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows A month after winning the Masters, Woods received the nation's highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, from President Donald Trump. Hide Caption 3 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Woods won the season-ending Tour Championship in September 2018. It was his first title in five years following a succession of back injuries. Hide Caption 4 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Signs that Woods was back to his best were obvious at August's PGA Championship, where he finished runner-up to Brooks Koepka. It followed an impressive showing at July's British Open, where he briefly topped the leaderboard. Hide Caption 5 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Woods made an impressive return to competitive golf in 2018 after multiple back surgeries in recent years. He played his first Masters in three years in April 2018. Hide Caption 6 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows The four-time champion had back fusion surgery -- his fourth procedure -- in April 2017 and returned to the game pain-free in December. He finished tied 32nd at Augusta. Hide Caption 7 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Woods was touted as one of the favorites after impressing in his early-season events. He also set tongues wagging by playing a practice round with old rival Phil Mickelson, right. Hide Caption 8 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Woods finished tied second at the Valspar Championship in March 2018 and followed it up with a tie for fifth at the Arnold Palmer Invitational at Bay Hill. The hype needle moved into overdrive. Hide Caption 9 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Woods set out on his legendary path by becoming the youngest winner of the Masters -- at 21 -- with a record 12-shot win in 1997. Hide Caption 10 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows One of his most remarkable feats was winning his first US Open by an unprecedented 15 shots at Pebble Beach, California, in 2000, sparking a streak never seen before or since. Hide Caption 11 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Woods' victory in the 2001 Masters meant he held all four of golf's major titles at the same time, dubbed the "Tiger Slam." Hide Caption 12 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Woods' win rate, his dedication to fitness training and his desire to succeed were changing golf. Prize money rocketed because of Woods. Off the course, he married girlfriend Elin Nordegren in 2004. Hide Caption 13 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Woods showed rare emotion when he broke down in tears on the shoulder of caddie Steve Williams following his win in the 2006 British Open at Hoylake, months after his father and mentor Earl passed away. Hide Caption 14 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Despite being visibly hampered and in pain from a knee injury, Woods won the US Open in breathtaking fashion at Torrey Pines, California, in 2008. It was his 14th major title to leave him only four behind the record of Jack Nicklaus. He was later diagnosed with knee ligament damage and two fractures of his left tibia. He missed the rest of the season after surgery. It is still his last major title. Hide Caption 15 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows In December 2009, Woods crashed his car into a fire hydrant outside his home. As the big picture emerged it was discovered Woods had been conducting a series of extra martial affairs. He took three months away from the game to sort out his private life. Hide Caption 16 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows In February 2010 Woods addressed the world's media to explain and apologise for his actions. His infidelity led to divorce and was the beginning of a downhill slide in Woods' playing career. By October he lost the world No. 1 ranking, a position he had held for 281 consecutive weeks Hide Caption 17 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Back in the fold, Woods earned his first win in two years at the Chevron World Challenge in December 2011, a charity tournament he hosts that does not count on the PGA Tour money list. Hide Caption 18 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Woods was back in the winner's circle in 2013, lifting five titles, including the Arnold Palmer Invitational, to get back to the top of the rankings. Hide Caption 19 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows In March 2013, Woods and Lindsey Vonn announced they were dating on Facebook. In January that year, the champion skier had finalized her divorce from Thomas Vonn, after initializing proceedings in 2011. In May 2015, Woods and Vonn announced their breakup, with the golfer claiming he "hadn't slept" in the days following. Hide Caption 20 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Later in 2013 there were signs all was not well as Woods was seen to be in pain as he picked the ball out of the hole at the Barclays tournament in August. He missed the Masters the following April for the first time since 1994 to undergo back surgery. Hide Caption 21 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Woods pulled out of the Farmers Insurance Open in February 2015, and struggled with injury and form for the rest of the season. Hide Caption 22 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Woods cut a dejected figure at that year's US Open as he struggled with his game and carded rounds of 80 and 76 to miss the cut. Hide Caption 23 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows In August 2015 Woods made his last appearance for 15 months to undergo follow-up back surgeries. At one stage during his rehabilitation, Woods spoke of there being "no light at the end of the tunnel" -- and with one eye on his fading career, he suggested "everything beyond this will be gravy." Hide Caption 24 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Woods made a much-anticipated return to golf in December 2016, showing signs of promise with the highest number of birdies in the field -- 24 -- but he also made a number of costly errors to finish third from last in the 18-man event. Hide Caption 25 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows He missed the cut in his first event of 2017 in the US and pulled out after the first round of the Dubai Desert Classic in February, citing back spasms. He underwent a fourth back prodecure in April. Hide Caption 26 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows The golf legend was arrested Monday, May 29, on suspicion of driving under the influence. He was booked into a local jail in Florida and released a few hours later. He said in a statement he had "an unexpected reaction to prescribed medications." Hide Caption 27 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows In August Woods entered a first-offender program and pleaded guilty to reckless driving on October 28. He will avoid jail unless he commits major violations of his probation. Hide Caption 28 of 29 Photos: Tiger Woods: From highs to lows Woods returned to golf after 301 days at the Hero World Challenge in the Bahamas on November 30 2017. He carded a three-under first-round 69 and appeared pain-free and hungry to resume his career. Hide Caption 29 of 29He was cited for DUI and improper parking, and records said there was no crash or damage to any property.Four back surgeries since 2014Woods was arrested about 3 a.m. Monday, Jupiter police spokeswoman Kristin Rightler said. He was booked into a local jail and released on his own recognizance with no bond a few hours later, according to Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office online records.In his statement, the golfer apologized to family, friends and fans. "I will do everything in my power to ensure this never happens again."Woods has won 14 major tournaments, second only to Jack Nicklaus. But the 41-year-old golfer has undergone multiple back surgeries and hasn't played competitive golf since he was forced to pull out of the Dubai Desert Classic in February. He has expressed a desire to continue to play professionally despite his recent history of injuries.He underwent fusion surgery on his back more than a month ago, his fourth operation since 2014. Woods said in a blog post published last week that "it was instant nerve relief.""I haven't felt this good in years," he said.Woods also said in the post that his long-term prognosis for returning to professional golf is positive but that he won't be able to twist his back for another two to three months."Right now, my sole focus is rehab and doing what the doctors tell me," he wrote. "I am concentrating on short-term goals."I want to thank my doctors for their great work and support throughout this process. I also want to thank the fans for your phenomenal support. It means more than you know. There's a long way to go, but as I said, words cannot convey how good it feels to be pain-free."Jack Nicklaus: 'I think he needs all our help'The PGA Tour said it would not comment on Woods' arrest.But it was the subject of conversation ahead of the Memorial Tournament, the next stop on the PGA Tour, at Muirfield Village Golf Club in Dublin, Ohio."I think the immediate reaction is just concern, and also wanting to get kind of the facts of this story, exactly what happened," said Jim Furyk , who was an assistant captain with Woods at last year's Ryder Cup."I've spent a lot of time around Tiger throughout my career and also just recently a lot of time at the Ryder Cup. But really just more than anything else, just concern. Hopefully he's OK. I'm kind of wanting to find out more about the story and hope all is well."The world's No. 1-ranked golfer, Dustin Johnson, who in 2014 took a break from the sport to address what he called "personal challenges," weighed in as well."Obviously, we feel for him and his family," Johnson said. "It's a tough situation to deal with, but thoughts and prayers are with him and his family, and hopefully everything is going to be fine."Nicklaus also spoke of Woods."I feel bad for Tiger," he said. "Tiger's a friend. He's been great for the game of golf. I think he needs all our help, and we wish him well."Woods hasn't won a major tournament since 2008 when he clinched the US Open in sudden death over Rocco Mediate. Shortly after his victory, Woods announced he would undergo reconstructive ACL surgery on his left knee and would miss the rest of the PGA Tour season.The Memorial Day arrest is not Woods' first encounter with adverse publicity. In November 2009, the golfer was taken to a hospital after he was injured in a car accident in front of his home in Orlando. The episode mushroomed into a scandal in the days afterward over revelations that Woods had been unfaithful to his then-wife, Elin Nordegren.