(CNN) Manchester's beloved soccer team, Manchester United, won a league title. It was an emotional, bittersweet victory . Here's what else you need to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. Concert attackPolice are convinced that Salman Abedi, the suicide bomber who killed 22 people in the Manchester Arena attack, didn't act alone. So just how big is the network he may have been a part of? It might stretch all the way to Libya. Abedi was of Libyan descent, and police say he returned from a three-week visit just before the attack. A sixth person in the UK has been arrested in connection with the bombing, and Abedi's brother in Libya is also in custody.The Brits are ticked off about all the leaks to the media coming out of this investigation. The New York Times last night published photos that allegedly show remnants of the bomb. The Times says British officials gave the newspaper access to the pictures. The subject is sure to come up when Prime Minister Theresa May meets up with Donald Trump at today's NATO summit2. Russia investigationJUST WATCHED DOJ: Sessions didn't disclose Russia meetings Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH DOJ: Sessions didn't disclose Russia meetings 02:023. President TrumpJUST WATCHED What's the point of NATO? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What's the point of NATO? 01:234. Montana electionJUST WATCHED Candidate charged with assaulting reporter Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Candidate charged with assaulting reporter 02:025. Health careSpeaking of not having insurance, almost 19,000 residents in Missouri could be left without it after Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Kansas City pulled out of Obamacare. The company is leaving because of, you guessed it, big losses and uncertainty over health care policy. This kind of thing has happened across several states already.TODAY'S QUOTE"If anybody is wondering how bad the opioid epidemic has become, this case is a frightening example."Chester County District Attorney Tom Hogan, after two drug counselors overdosed on opioids at an addiction facility in PennsylvaniaJUST WATCHED Why are opioids so addictive? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why are opioids so addictive? 01:09Breakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Total recallIf you have a Graco car seat in your ride, you may want to take a look at it. Graco is recalling more than 25,000 car seatsA good dayA boy at a hospital in Rome got a double shot of good -- a visit from the first lady of the US and word that doctors have found him a heart donorThanks, momShe took notes for him at every class because he couldn't. So when he graduated with an MBA, she got one, tooCosmic cashA total solar eclipse will glide across the US in August, and being the capitalists that we are, Americans are finding ways to cash inAnd finally ...I got a deal for ya