(CNN) Good morning. Looking for a contractor? This robot can 3D-print a building in 14 hours. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. Hillary Clinton2. Russia investigationEx-Acting Attorney General Sally Yates will finally appear before a Senate committee next week, and she'll pretty much say: I told you so. Sources say Yates, who will speak to a Senate Judiciary subcommittee, will testify that she gave a strong warning to the White House about former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn and his troubling ties to Russia before he was fired. That directly contradicts the Trump administration's version of events. Yates isn't the only big figure up on Capitol Hill talking to panels about the Russia probe . FBI Director James Comey will speak this week with Senate and House committees about Russia, too.JUST WATCHED Sources: Yates to contradict WH on Flynn Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sources: Yates to contradict WH on Flynn 02:073. Police shooting casesConfusion reigns right now over the Alton Sterling investigation . Media reports are swirling that the Justice Department has decided not to prosecute the two white Baton Rouge, Louisiana, police officers in last summer's shooting death of the black man. Justice says no decision has been made yet . Sterling's relatives are angry because they thought they would be told of any decision before it went public. Sterling was shot and killed by police outside a convenience store after a scuffle, leading to days of protests.JUST WATCHED Video shows shooting of Alton Sterling Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video shows shooting of Alton Sterling 01:034. School lunchesThe Trump administration is easing up on Obama-era school lunch guidelines. The agriculture secretary signed a proclamation relaxing some standards -- in place since 2012 -- for whole grains, salt and milk. That means states can give waivers to schools having trouble meeting the standards. The guidelines were a big priority for former first lady Michelle Obama , who pushed to make sure kids got the most nutritious meals available. But the standards weren't all that popular with a lot of people who run school cafeterias, who said the emphasis on more fruits and vegetables just meant more stuff ended up in the trash.JUST WATCHED Trick your kids into eating healthy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trick your kids into eating healthy 01:385. Joseph KonyYou remember Joseph Kony? You don't? Don't worry about it; most of us have forgotten about the brutal African warlord, too. But back in 2012, the whole world wanted to track him down after the documentary "Kony 2012" came out. It detailed how he and his militia have killed thousands of civilians and abducted thousands of children during a decades-long insurgency in Uganda. The documentary was a YouTube sensation and prompted international outrage. The US even sent in a handful of troops to help search for him. But now the US is winding down its role in the hunt for Kony because his militia is a shadow of what it used to be.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Unfriendly skiesMan, that 11-hour flight between Tokyo and LA can be boring. So a couple of fliers thought staging a mini-fight club was a good way to pass the time.What's in a name?It's a literal bolt from the sky that may be a new part of the northern lights . So of course, scientists gave it an out-of-this-world name: Steve.Miss you muchMs. Jackson is coming back. Janet Jackson, in a Twitter message, says she's restarting her world tour (after having a baby and splitting from her hubby.)Nice tryHe tried to smuggle 67 pounds of pot across the Mexican border -- in a coffin in a hearse . Yeah, he got caught, but you gotta give him an "A" for effort.Great performancesWho knew that a musical based on "War and Peace" would kill on Broadway? "Natasha, Pierre & the Great Comet of 1812" leads the Tony nominationsTODAY'S NUMBER332That's the newest area code for Manhattan, but it just doesn't have the swagger that 212 holds for most New Yorkers.AND FINALLY ...Got cheese?