(CNN) If you're planning a summer trip, take note: The State Department just issued a travel alert for all of Europe . Here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. Health care billRepealing and replacing Obamacare is turning into a frustrating game of Whack-A-Mole for the GOP . The party last week made enough changes to its health care bill to get conservative House Freedom Caucus members on board. But those very changes are scaring off moderates . The issue is pre-existing conditions . Under the GOP bill, insurance companies could charge people with pre-existing conditions more, possibly making coverage unaffordable for them. That was enough to spook moderates, leaving the House Republican leadership searching for more "yes" votes. The chances this bill will come up for a vote before the House leaves Friday for a week-long break are pretty slim.2. Trump meetingsJUST WATCHED Trump: I'd be honored to meet Kim Jong Un Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: I'd be honored to meet Kim Jong Un 01:483. Violence4. Military sex assaultsSex assaults in the US military dropped to a 10-year low last year , the Pentagon says in a new report. The number of assaults declined by more than 5,000 in 2016. Military officials attributed this to better communication and prevention efforts and new policies intended to counter assaults. Groups outside the military said while this is a step in the right direction, the military needs to do more to hold assailants accountable. One other area that needs improvement: sexual harassment. The report shows no change in the number of harassment claims.JUST WATCHED Rape victims: Military calls us 'crazy' (2012) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rape victims: Military calls us 'crazy' (2012) 05:295. Milwaukee jail deathA jury in Milwaukee recommends seven employees of the county jail there be charged in the death of an inmate who was denied water for seven days . Terrill Thomas died of dehydration in April 2016 in his cell. After six days of testimony in an inquest, the jury said it wants charges brought against the jail's former administrator and the officer who gave the order to cut off water to Thomas' cell. But the officer said she only wanted water to Thomas' toilet shut off because he had flooded a toilet in another cell. It's not clear if the district attorney will follow the jury's recommendation and file charges.JUST WATCHED Officials: Inmate dies after days of no water Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Officials: Inmate dies after days of no water 00:48This just in ...Your favorite TV shows and movies are safe. Writers in Hollywood reached a three-year deal with the studios early this morning that averts a strike.TODAY'S NUMBER$61 millionThe amount Congress is set to approve to reimburse local police for protecting the Trump family for travel outside WashingtonBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.All the way liveAs if he already didn't have enough jobs, Ryan Seacrest is joining Kelly Ripa as the new co-host of "Live."Dinner dateSurprise guests for dinner are always fun, especially when your guest is the creator of the world's leading social media site.A father's loveWatching Jimmy Kimmel getting choked up talking about his newborn son's battle with a heart disease will give you all the feels.Road raceMove over, Google and Apple. Make way, GM and Uber. Now electronics-maker Samsung wants to get in on the driverless car gameQUOTE OF THE DAY"People don't ask that question: But why was there a Civil War?"President Donald Trump, raising the issue of the causes of the war , which actually is covered in the US citizenship testAND FINALLY ...Read my lips