If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Looking for something different in an Airbnb? How about spending a night in the Oscar Mayer Wienermobile ?Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. PoliticsPresident Trump tried to distance himself from the "send her back" chants that broke out during his rally this week in North Carolina. The President claimed he tried to stop the chant, but video shows otherwise. As the crowd begins the chant, Trump waits 13 seconds -- and appears to let it gain momentum -- before resuming his speech. US Rep. Ilhan Omar, the Democrat targeted by the chant, was greeted by a cheering crowd in Minneapolis as she returned to her home district for a town hall on health care. She said Trump is "threatened because we are inspiring people to dream ."Meanwhile, newly released FBI search warrants show Trump was very much involved late in the 2016 race in the hush money scheme to hide his alleged affair with adult film star Stormy Daniels and contain the fallout from related news stories. The documents mark the first time authorities have identified Trump by name and alleged his involvement at key steps in the scheme. Trump has publicly denied the affair and making the payments. His former attorney, Michael Cohen, facilitated the payments and ended up pleading guilty to two campaign finance crimes, among others; he's serving three years in prison. The US attorney's office in the Southern District of New York has said it has closed its investigation into the matter, and CNN previously reported that no one from the Trump Organization would be charged.2. IranTensions with Iran continue to escalate. President Trump and the Pentagon said the US destroyed an Iranian drone that came within 1,000 yards of the USS Boxer. The ship was in international waters and near the Strait of Hormuz. The drone wasn't shot down but was destroyed by using electronic jamming, a defense official said. Iran's foreign affairs minister denied a drone had been lost. Meanwhile, Iran says it seized an oil tanker that was carrying smuggled fuel and had 12 people on board. It's still not clear who owns that ship. Relations between Iran and the US have deteriorated since May 2018, when the Trump administration left the 2015 nuclear deal and reimposed crippling sanctions on Iran's economy.JUST WATCHED Footage released of Iran seizing tanker Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Footage released of Iran seizing tanker 01:423. EbolaThere has been a major escalation in the fight against Ebola. The current outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo has been declared a public health emergency of international concern , the World Health Organization announced. It's just the fifth time the WHO has made such a declaration. While the decision won't markedly shift the country's strategy in fighting the deadly disease, it will focus global attention on the outbreak and help bring in money to battle it. This outbreak, which began in the summer of 2018, has killed more than 1,600 people. A photographer captured what it's like on the front lines in the Ebola fight.JUST WATCHED In Ebola outbreak, fear hinders treatment efforts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH In Ebola outbreak, fear hinders treatment efforts 02:264. Boeing 737 MaxBoeing's troubled 737 Max planes won't be back in the air anytime soon. Southwest became the latest carrier to extend through November cancellations of flights for which the airline had planned to use the planes. American and United had already announced extended cancellations. The plane was grounded worldwide in March following the crash that killed everyone onboard a 737 Max in Ethiopia. It was the second fatal crash involving that type of plane in months. Victims' relatives told Congress this week that Boeing made decisions that should be considered criminal and were driven by financial greed. Boeing's CEO has publicly said he regrets the deaths, and the company set aside $100 million of assistance for victims' families.JUST WATCHED Man slams Boeing: My family knew they were 'going to die' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man slams Boeing: My family knew they were 'going to die' 01:475. WeatherIt's going to be a hot time in the city and across much of the country this weekend, as a dangerous heat wave threatens much of the continental US. More than 85% of the lower 48's population will see temps above 90 degrees Fahrenheit over the next couple of days. After baking the Midwest yesterday, the worst heat will find its way today to the Northeast. Not only will there be record high temperatures set in some places during the day, there will be record highs set at night, too. The extreme temperatures overnight are especially concerning because it means peoples' bodies and homes won't have the opportunity to cool off.JUST WATCHED Massive heat wave continues through weekend Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Massive heat wave continues through weekend 01:45BREAKFAST BROWSETrailer time, Part 1The first trailer for the "Cats" movie is here, and social media didn't quite know what to make of the "digital fur technology."Trailer time, Part 2Tom Cruise is back in the cockpit for the new "Top Gun," and all the Gen Xers (remember us?) are celebrating like it's 1986 again.JUST WATCHED Here's a first look at 'Top Gun: Maverick' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's a first look at 'Top Gun: Maverick' 00:56Welcome backKids who don't wanna grow up, rejoice! Toys "R" Us is coming back , just in time for the holidays.Stuck in the middleRaise your hand if you hate the middle seat on planes. (Counts hands ...) OK, looks like that's all of us. Maybe this can help.Vroom, vroomGM took the wraps off its latest Chevrolet Corvette , and it's most definitely not your dad's 'Vette.TODAY'S NUMBERnearly 7,000The number of acres burning in a wildfire near Prescott National Forest in ArizonaJUST WATCHED Why wildfires are becoming the new normal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why wildfires are becoming the new normal 02:19TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeThis popular smartphone app is now under scrutiny over privacy concerns and fears the data could be shared with the Russian government.A. RedditB. TikTokC. SnapchatD. FaceAppPlay " Total Recall ," CNN's weekly news quiz, to see if your answer is correct.AND FINALLY'Can't nobody tell me nothin''