(CNN) Here's a look at the death penalty in the United States.As of May 31, 2019, capital punishment is legal in 29 US states.According to the Death Penalty Information Center, 25 people were executed in the United States in 2018. The number of death sentences imposed was 42.According to the Criminal Justice Project of the NAACP, there are 2,673 people on death row in the United States as of April 1, 2019Since 1976, when the death penalty was reinstated by the US Supreme Court, 1,499 people have been executed (as of May 31, 2019).Since 1973, there have been 165 death row exonerations (as of May 2019). Twenty-nine of them are from the state of Florida.Federal Government:The US government and US military have The US government and US military have 62 people awaiting execution as of December 21, 2018.The US government has executed three people since 1988 when the federal death penalty statute was reinstated.Females:According to the Criminal Justice Project of the NAACP, there are According to the Criminal Justice Project of the NAACP, there are 54 women on death row in the United States as of April 1, 2019As of April 1, 2019, sixteen women have been executed since the reinstatement of the death penalty.Juveniles:Twenty-two individuals were executed between 1976 and 2005 for Twenty-two individuals were executed between 1976 and 2005 for crimes committed as juveniles.March 1, 2005 - The Supreme Court rules that the execution of juvenile offenders is unconstitutional. Roper v. Simmons. The Supreme Court rules that the execution of juvenile offenders is unconstitutional.For federal death row inmates, the president alone has the power to grant a pardon.Timeline:1834 - Pennsylvania becomes the first state to move executions into correctional facilities, ending public executions.1846 - Michigan becomes the first state to abolish the death penalty for all crimes except treason.1890 - William Kemmler becomes the first person executed by electrocution.1907-1917 - Nine states abolish the death penalty for all crimes or strictly limit it. By 1920, five of those states had reinstated it.1924 - The use of cyanide gas is introduced as an execution method.June 29, 1972 - The Supreme Court effectively voids 40 death penalty statutes and suspends the death penalty. Furman v. Georgia. The Supreme Court effectively voids 40 death penalty statutes and suspends the death penalty.1976 - The death penalty is reinstated. Gregg v. Georgia. The death penalty is reinstated.January 17, 1977 - A 10-year moratorium on the death penalty ends with the execution of Gary Gilmore by firing squad in Utah.1977 - Oklahoma becomes the first state to adopt lethal injection as a means of execution.December 7, 1982 - Charles Brooks becomes the first person executed by lethal injection.1984 - Velma Barfield of North Carolina becomes the first woman executed since reinstatement of the death penalty.1986 - Execution of insane persons is banned. Ford v. Wainwright. Execution of insane persons is banned.1987 - Racial disparities are not recognized as a constitutional violation of "equal protection of the law" unless intentional racial discrimination against the defendant can be shown. McCleskey v. Kemp. Racial disparities are not recognized as a constitutional violation of "equal protection of the law" unless intentional racial discrimination against the defendant can be shown.1988 - Executions of offenders age 15 and younger at the time of their crimes are declared unconstitutional. Thompson v. Oklahoma. Executions of offenders age 15 and younger at the time of their crimes are declared unconstitutional.1996 - The last execution by hanging takes place in Delaware, with the death of Billy Bailey.January 31, 2000 - A moratorium on executions is declared by Illinois A moratorium on executions is declared by Illinois Governor George Ryan. Since 1976, Illinois is the first state to block executions.2002 - The Supreme Court rules that the execution of mentally retarded defendants violates the Eighth Amendment's ban on cruel and unusual punishment. Atkins v. Virginia. The Supreme Court rules that the execution of mentally retarded defendants violates the Eighth Amendment's ban on cruel and unusual punishment.January 2003 - Before leaving office, Governor Ryan grants clemency to all the remaining 167 inmates on Illinois's death row, due to the flawed process that led to the death sentences.June 12, 2006 - The Supreme Court rules that The Supreme Court rules that death row inmates can challenge the use of lethal injection as a method of execution.December 17, 2007 - signs legislation abolishing the death penalty in the state. The death sentences of eight men are commuted to sentences of life without parole. New Jersey Governor Jon Corzine signs legislation abolishing the death penalty in the state. The death sentences of eight men are commuted to sentences of life without parole.April 16, 2008 - In a 7-2 ruling, the In a 7-2 ruling, the US Supreme Court upholds use of lethal injection. Between September 2007, when the Court took on the case, and April 2008, no one was executed in the US due to the de facto moratorium the Court placed on executions while it heard arguments in Baze v. Rees.March 18, 2009 - of New Mexico signs legislation repealing the death penalty in his state. His actions will not affect two prisoners currently on death row: Robert Fry, who killed a woman in 2000, and Tim Allen, who killed a 17-year-old girl in 1994. Governor Bill Richardson of New Mexico signs legislation repealing the death penalty in his state. His actions will not affect two prisoners currently on death row: Robert Fry, who killed a woman in 2000, and Tim Allen, who killed a 17-year-old girl in 1994.November 13, 2009 - Ohio becomes the first state to switch to a method of lethal injection using a single drug, rather than the three-drug method used by other states.March 9, 2011 - Illinois Governor Pat Quinn announces that he has signed legislation eliminating the death penalty in his state, more than 10 years after the state halted executions.March 16, 2011 - The Drug Enforcement Agency seizes Georgia's supply of thiopental, over questions of where the state obtained the drug. US manufacturer Hospira stopped producing the drug in 2009. The countries that still produce the drug do not allow it to be exported to the US for use in lethal injections.May 20, 2011 - The Georgia Department of Corrections announces that pentobarbital will be substituted for thiopental in the three-drug lethal injection process.November 22, 2011 - Governor John Kitzhaber of Oregon places a moratorium on all state executions for the remainder of his term in office.April 25, 2012 - Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy signs S.B. 280, An Act Revising the Penalty for Capital Felonies, into law. The law goes into effect immediately and replaces the death penalty with life without the possibility of parole. The law is not retroactive to those already on death row.May 2, 2013 - signs a bill repealing the death penalty. The law goes into effect October 1. Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley signs a bill repealing the death penalty. The law goes into effect October 1.January 16, 2014 - Ohio executes inmate Dennis McGuire with a new combination of drugs, due to the unavailability of drugs such as pentobarbital. The state uses a combination of the drugs midazolam and hydromorphone, according to the state corrections department. The execution process takes 24 minutes, and McGuire appears to be gasping for air for 10 to 13 minutes, Ohio executes inmate Dennis McGuire with a new combination of drugs, due to the unavailability of drugs such as pentobarbital. The state uses a combination of the drugs midazolam and hydromorphone, according to the state corrections department. The execution process takes 24 minutes, and McGuire appears to be gasping for air for 10 to 13 minutes, according to witness Alan Johnson, a reporter with the Columbus Dispatch. In May 2014, an Ohio judge issues an order suspending executions in the state so that authorities can further study new lethal injection protocols. In 2015, Ohio announces that it is reincorporating thiopental sodium, a drug which it used in executions from 1999-2011.July 23, 2014 - After the injection, it reportedly took him nearly two hours to die. A state review board later rules that future executions will be conducted with a three-drug formula or a single drug injection if the state can obtain pentobarbital. Arizona uses a new combination of drugs for the lethal injection to execute Joseph Woods, a convicted murderer. After the injection, it reportedly took him nearly two hours to die. A state review board later rules that future executions will be conducted with a three-drug formula or a single drug injection if the state can obtain pentobarbital.September 4, 2014 - The Oklahoma Department of Public Safety issues The Oklahoma Department of Public Safety issues a report about the botched execution of Clayton Lockett on April 29, 2014. Complications with the placement of an IV into Lockett played a significant role in problems with his execution, according to the report. It took 43 minutes for him to die.December 31, 2014 - O'Malley commutes the death sentences of the four last men in the state scheduled for execution. It is one of his final acts as Maryland's Governor.February 13, 2015 - until a task force examining capital punishment in Pennsylvania issues its final report, citing the state's "error prone" justice system and "inherent biases" among his reasons for the moratorium. Later, Wolf's action is upheld in court after Philadelphia District Attorney R. Seth Williams files a petition claiming the moratorium is an unconstitutional takeover of powers. The moratorium remains in effect after the report is published June 2018. Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf halts all executions in his state until a task force examining capital punishment in Pennsylvania issues its final report, citing the state's "error prone" justice system and "inherent biases" among his reasons for the moratorium. Later, Wolf's action is upheld in court after Philadelphia District Attorney R. Seth Williams files a petition claiming the moratorium is an unconstitutional takeover of powers. The moratorium remains in effect after the report is published June 2018.March 23, 2015 - Utah Governor Gary Herbert signs legislation making the firing squad an authorized method of death if the drugs required for lethal injection are unavailable. Utah Governor Gary Herbert signs legislation making the firing squad an authorized method of death if the drugs required for lethal injection are unavailable. The firing squad was last used in 2010 to execute a convicted murderer, Ronnie Lee Gardner.June 29, 2015 - The Supreme Court rules, in a 5-4 decision, that the use of the sedative midazolam in lethal injections is not a violation of the constitutional ban on cruel and unusual punishment. Midazolam is one of three drugs that are combined to carry out the death penalty in Oklahoma.August 2, 2016 - The Delaware Supreme Court rules the state's death penalty law unconstitutional. Attorney General Matt Denn later announces that he will not appeal the decision.April 2017 - Of the eight prisoners Arkansas had planned to execute before the state's supply of a lethal injection drug expires, four are put to death: The other four - Jason McGehee, was later granted clemency and Stacey Johnson, Don Davis and Bruce Ward - receive stays of execution that were later lifted. Of the eight prisoners Arkansas had planned to execute before the state's supply of a lethal injection drug expires, four are put to death: Ledell Lee, Jack Jones, Marcel Williams and Kenneth Williams. The other four - Jason McGehee, was later granted clemency and Stacey Johnson, Don Davis and Bruce Ward - receive stays of execution that were later lifted.January 25, 2019 - pending an official assessment of the state's execution system. This is in response to a January 14 federal court decision regarding the severity of its three-drug protocol. DeWine later announces that the state will have no executions until a method that will stand up to legal scrutiny is established. Ohio Governor Mike DeWine delays execution of Warren Henness pending an official assessment of the state's execution system. This is in response to a January 14 federal court decision regarding the severity of its three-drug protocol. DeWine later announces that the state will have no executions until a method that will stand up to legal scrutiny is established.March 13, 2019 - Governor Gavin Newsom signs an executive order placing a Governor Gavin Newsom signs an executive order placing a moratorium on the death penalty in CaliforniaMay 30, 2019 - New Hampshire repeals the death penalty after the state legislature votes to override a veto from Governor Chris Sununu, making it the 21st state to abolish capital punishment in the US.