(CNN) The moon landing got the Google Doodle treatment for its 50th anniversary , retold from launch to landing by one of the three astronauts on the history-making mission.If you click it, you'll see Apollo 11 command module pilot Michael Collins narrating a short cartoon rendering of the eight-day mission, peppered with anecdotes from life on board.Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and Collins began their mission July 16, 1969, launching from Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida. The tremendous undertaking took 400,000 workers to accomplish, but only three made it to space, he said in the clip.Collins remembered his first look at the moon -- a "magnificent spectacle," sure, but it couldn't compare to the interstellar view of his home planet, now a diminutive blue speck."The Earth was the main show. The Earth was it," he said in the clip.On July 20, Armstrong and Aldrin departed on the lunar module, called the "Eagle," which would separate from the command module to make the 13-minute descent to the surface of the moon. Collins stayed behind.Their descent was a tense one, as the Eagle's fuel ran low and lost radio contact with the team on Earth, he said in the video.Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos Apollo 11 astronaut Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin salutes the American flag on the surface of the moon on July 20, 1969. Aldrin was the second man to ever step foot on the lunar surface. The first was Neil Armstrong, Apollo 11's mission commander. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos Apollo 11's crew is pictured in May 1969, the month before the launch. From left are Armstrong, Michael Collins and Aldrin. Collins piloted the command module that orbited the moon while Armstrong and Aldrin spent time on the surface. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos Apollo 11 was launched into space by a Saturn V rocket on July 16, 1969. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos Former US President Lyndon B. Johnson and then-Vice President Spiro Agnew were among those watching the launch at Florida's Kennedy Space Center. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos It took the crew 76 hours to travel 240,000 miles from the Earth to the moon. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos The Apollo 11 spacecraft consisted of a command module, Columbia, and a lunar module, Eagle. This photo, taken from the Eagle lunar module, shows the Columbia command module pulling away near the lunar surface. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos Armstrong works outside the Eagle module shortly after becoming the first man to step foot on the lunar surface. There aren't that many photos of Armstrong on the moon. That's because he was the one taking most of the photos. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos Fans attending a Philadelphia Phillies baseball game cheer after it was announced that the Eagle had made a safe lunar landing on July 20, 1969. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos Armstrong is pictured aboard the Eagle just after the historic moonwalk. As Armstrong lowered himself to the surface, people watching around the world heard him call it "one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind." Armstrong later said he had intended to say "a man" and thought he had. Numerous studies have been carried out over the years to discover whether he had indeed uttered that one little sound. Either way, his intention was clear. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos A view of Earth appears over the lunar horizon as Apollo 11's command module comes into view of the moon. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos Aldrin walks on the surface of the moon. He and Armstrong spent a little over two hours collecting rock samples and data near the moon's Sea of Tranquility region. They also left behind a plaque signed by all three crew members and President Richard Nixon. The plaque reads: "Here men from the planet Earth first set foot upon the moon, July 1969 A.D. We came in peace for all mankind." Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos Aldrin's family and friends watch the mission from his home in Texas. Aldrin's wife, Joan, is in the polka-dot shirt. ABC, CBS and NBC spent between $11 million and $12 million to cover the mission from July 20-21. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos An astronaut's boot print on the lunar surface. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos Aldrin was the one who piloted the Eagle lander to the surface. He and Collins are still alive today. Armstrong died in 2012. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos A view of Earth, photographed from Apollo 11 as it returned from the moon. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos US Navy personnel assist the astronauts after their re-entry vehicle landed safely in the Pacific Ocean on July 24, 1969. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos NASA officials and flight controllers celebrate the successful conclusion of the mission. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: The Apollo 11 moon landing, in photos President Nixon spends time with the astronauts, who were in a quarantine trailer for their first few days back on Earth. From left are Armstrong, Collins and Aldrin. Since Apollo 11, only 10 other men have walked on the moon. The last was in 1972. Hide Caption 18 of 18But the two safely landed and took their first steps on the moon on July 20, 1969. Collins waited on the other side of the moon from the comfort of the command module that would take all three men home."Behind the moon, I was by myself but not lonesome," he said in the clip. "If you counted, there was 3 billion plus two people on one side [of the moon] and me on the other."The men returned home four days later , splashing down in the Pacific Ocean. In the fall, the grounded astronauts embarked on a tour around the world, where they learned their feat didn't just belong to Americans.In every country he visited, Collins heard the same refrain: "We did it.""We, you and me, the inhabitants of this wonderful Earth -- we did it."