If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Planning to buy fireworks for the Fourth of July? Several kinds of fireworks have been recalled recently, so check out this list to make sure what you buy won't put you in danger.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. WashingtonThings usually slow down in the summer, but not so much in DC this sizzling season. Here's a rundown of the big story lines that are unfolding:• Unannounced inspections of Border Patrol detention facilities by a government watchdog found extreme overcrowding• There won't be a citizenship question on the 2020 census. The Trump administration will print census forms without the controversial question, after the Supreme Court blocked it from being asked.• Vice President Mike Pence's trip to New Hampshire yesterday was abruptly canceled, and no one quite knows whyJUST WATCHED DHS watchdog releases photos of families in overcrowded border facilities Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH DHS watchdog releases photos of families in overcrowded border facilities 00:482. BrazilBrazilian President Jair Bolsonaro is making good on one of his campaign promises, and it's accelerating deforestation in the Amazon . The rate of rainforest destruction has soared more than 60% compared to the same time last year, a Brazilian government agency reports. So, right now the Amazon is losing an area of rainforest a little larger than one and a half soccer fields every minute. Environmental groups blame Bolsonaro, a far-right populist, for the quickening pace of destruction, saying he has relaxed controls on deforestation. But Bolsonaro campaigned on exploring ways to capitalize on the Amazon's economic potential as a way to boost the country's economy. Brazil contains more than two-thirds of the Amazon forest, which is often referred to as the planet's lungs, because it produces 20% of the oxygen in the Earth's atmosphere.JUST WATCHED Watch Brazil's eco-police fight to save the Amazon (2015) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch Brazil's eco-police fight to save the Amazon (2015) 03:253. IndiaThe monsoon season has arrived with a vengeance in and around Mumbai. At least 32 people have died and more than a thousand have been evacuated as the heaviest rain in a decade pours down on India's largest city. The airport's main runway was shut down, rail service interrupted and some public services suspended as some places took on water so fast it rose to waist-height. The rains came late this year, a delay that has worsened a crisis that's the polar opposite of flooding: a nationwide dearth of groundwater that could put hundreds of millions of people at risk in the next five years of fatal droughts, famine and heat waves.JUST WATCHED Over 20 deaths as Mumbai gets hit by record monsoon rain Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Over 20 deaths as Mumbai gets hit by record monsoon rain 01:124. Lee IacoccaAuto industry legend Lee Iacocca will be remembered for two things : helping create the Ford Mustang, and saving Chrysler in the 1980s. Iacocca died of natural causes yesterday at age 94. He led both Ford and Chrysler during his career and made an indelible mark at both. During his years at Ford he was a major figure in the development of the Ford Mustang -- the first vehicle of its kind. Later, at Chrysler, he led that company during an era in which foreign imports first started to take a serious bite out of American automakers' share of the car market. He orchestrated a $1.5 billion Treasury Department bank loan to keep the company afloat during the recessions of the early '80s. He was a TV pitchman, too, starring in a series of Chrysler TV commercials with his catchphrase, "If you can find a better car, buy it."JUST WATCHED Auto industry icon Lee Iacocca has died Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Auto industry icon Lee Iacocca has died 03:495. Women's World CupJUST WATCHED US Women advance to World Cup Final Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US Women advance to World Cup Final 01:37BREAKFAST BROWSEHe just made them happyMusic producer Pharrell Williams brought smiles to 114 Harlem high school grads after he offered all of them "A-list internships" when they go to college.Back to the Upside Down"Stranger Things" returns tomorrow to Netflix, and if you've forgotten, well, pretty much everything that happened in Season 2, here's a little refresherJUST WATCHED New season of 'Stranger Things' coming on July 4 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New season of 'Stranger Things' coming on July 4 00:58Try, try againIf you didn't get a ticket to that disastrous Fyre Festival, consider yourself lucky. You can now buy the island used to promote it.What could have beenDid you know Kevin Costner was planning a sequel to "The Bodyguard?" We didn't either. And would you believe his co-star was going to be Princess DianaTODAY'S QUOTE"So, he doesn't count in the back?"driver of a hearse on an interstate in Nevada, after he was Theon an interstate in Nevada, after he was pulled over by a state trooper for driving solo in the HOV laneTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Holiday heat wave for much of the eastern US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Holiday heat wave for much of the eastern US 01:32AND FINALLYDon't move