(CNN) Weeks of fury and protests gave way to celebrations and fireworks as Puerto Rico's embattled governor announced he'll step down.But the widespread jubilation was quickly tempered by a sobering reality: No one's sure what's next for the US territoryAnd as Gov. Ricardo Rosselló prepares to announce his successor, some say the woman next in line -- Justice Secretary Wanda Vázquez -- would be just as problematic."We don't want her, either," said Manuel Capella, a doctor from Arecibo. "We'd keep protesting."Protesters revel after bringing down their governorShortly after Rosselló announced his resignation, much of Puerto Rico turned into a massive block party. Festive music blared through the streets as fireworks lit up the sky.En Isla Verde, en plena Baldorioty, el pueblo celebra la renuncia HISTÓRICA de @ricardorossello. #CrisisEnFortaleza pic.twitter.com/yFjMzcO4VK — José M. Encarnación (@encarnajm94) July 25, 2019Protesters have been frustrated for years over poverty and alleged government corruptionThe targets included fellow politicians, members of the media and even victims of Hurricane Maria -- which killed thousands of Puerto Ricans in 2017.Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters celebrate in Old San Juan, Puerto Rico, after Gov. Ricardo Rosselló announced that he will resign. Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Puerto Ricans wave flags in celebration of Rosselló's resignation. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators react in front of the governor's mansion, known as La Fortaleza. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People in the crowd hold flowers and flags outside the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A demonstrator rejoices after Rosselló announced his resignation. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Jubilant demonstrators are seen in the streets of Old San Juan. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A woman celebrates near La Fortaleza. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A Puerto Rican man cheers after the resignation of Rosselló. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A demonstrator listens to Rosselló's resignation message on a cell phone. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters rally in San Juan on Wednesday, July 24. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators react Tuesday, July 23, upon hearing reports that Rosselló would step down. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police clash with protesters during demonstrations against Rosselló on Monday, July 22. The protests continued into Tuesday morning. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A protester throws a tear gas canister toward police in San Juan. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A protester reacts to tear gas outside the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters run away from tear gas near the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A line of police moves toward demonstrators. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A woman confronts police in riot gear. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters disperse in a cloud of tear gas. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People hold up their phones during the rally outside the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters demonstrate near a police barricade set up along a street leading to the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation This aerial view, taken from a drone, shows protesters on the Expreso Las Americas highway on Monday. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People join the rally against Rosselló on Monday. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A masked man protests in San Juan. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters block the way to Rosselló's residence on Monday. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Puerto Rican pop star Ricky Martin, waving a rainbow flag, joins the protests on Monday. Members of the group chat that Rosselló took part in made vulgar references to the star's sexuality. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Puerto Ricans in San Juan demand Rosselló's resignation on Monday. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters attach a banner to a highway sign. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Singer Daddy Yankee, in the flag shirt, attends the rally on Monday. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A woman is assisted in the streets after demonstrators clashed with police on Wednesday, July 17. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police fire tear gas at demonstrators on July 17. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police officers search the bag of a detained demonstrator on July 17. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Rosselló defended the actions of police and accused protesters of unleashing tear gas and setting fires during demonstrations. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Thousands of demonstrators protest in front of the governor's mansion on July 17. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A protester reacts after being sprayed by tear gas in San Juan. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Rapper Benito Antonio Martinez Ocasio, known by his stage name Bad Bunny, holds a Puerto Rican flag before a march on July 17. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Ricky Martin holds a microphone during the march on July 17. At right is rapper Rene Perez, aka Residente. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People gather to demand Rosselló's resignation on July 17. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police block the street leading to the governor's mansion on Tuesday, July 16. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Rosselló attends a news conference in San Juan on July 16. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters gather near the executive mansion on Monday, July 15. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators cover their mouths with duct tape that says "resignation" in Spanish. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters take to the streets of San Juan on July 15. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A police officer blocks protesters from reaching the governor's residence on Sunday, July 14. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police block the street leading to the governor's mansion on July 14. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators hold signs that say "Corruption is violence" and "Ricky resign" while protesting near the executive mansion on Thursday, July 11. Hide Caption 45 of 45After days of defiance, Rosselló caved to protesters' demands just as lawmakers were getting ready to start impeachment proceedings.In a video posted Wednesday on Facebook, the governor said he will resign at 5 p.m. ET on August 2."During the past few days, many of you have been practicing your right of freedom of expression," Rosselló said in his video. "The claims have been overwhelming, and I have received them with the highest degree of humility."He also used the video to tout accomplishments."Today we have the first positive economic growth in over a decade with 4.1% of growth, and the lowest unemployment in all our history, relieving thousands of fathers and mothers from the suffering of poverty," Rosselló said."I wish peace and progress for our people. Transformation and progress are not the work of just one person; it's the product of the work of the people."Who will be the next governor?Puerto Rico's secretary of state would normally be next in the line of succession. But that position is vacant after former Secretary of State Luis G. Rivera Marín -- who was one of the participants in the leaked chat -- resigned during this month's protests.Next up would be Justice Secretary Wanda Vázquez. But she's a longtime ally of Rosselló's, and some Puerto Ricans say they don't trust her."That would be terrible. That's like taking out a cockroach and replacing (it) with another," said Nora Morales, a retired business owner in Old San Juan.Capella criticized the justice secretary's handling of the chat message scandal. The Justice Department did not issue summonses for those involved in the chats until several days after the scandal was publicized , and also gave the participants a few days to turn over their cell phones for inspection."Why didn't she ask for their phones earlier to investigate?" Capella said.But Vázquez said she's ready to take the helm."Once the resignation is official, if necessary, I will assume the historic mandate" as dictated in the Puerto Rican constitution, Vázquez said.It's possible the governor might try to appoint a new secretary of state in the coming week, before he formally steps down. That person would have to be approved by the legislature before he or she takes over as governor.But Rosselló has hinted that Vázquez will likely be his successor."At this time, according to legal order, that person would be the current secretary of the Department of Justice, the attorney Wanda Vázquez," Rosselló said in his video Wednesday.The fight's not overRegardless of who succeeds Rosselló, the new governor faces tough challenges -- including a tough economy, a difficult recovery from Hurricane Maria , and now an emboldened electorate."Before, people would sit and watch TV and complain or do nothing," said García Coll, a member of a community organizing group made up mostly of artists and writers. "People are not sitting in front of their TVs anymore. That's the difference. I call it a peaceful revolution."Cynthia García Coll, a psychologist who teaches at the University of Puerto Rico at Rio Piedras, said the issues on the island go beyond the top leadership."Rosselló is a symptom of a much deeper problem," she said.Many Puerto Ricans have lost confidence in Rosselló's New Progressive Party, which favors US statehood, and the Popular Democratic Party, which supports the current commonwealth status.But even though Rosselló is on his way out, his party still controls both sides of the legislature.Senate president Thomas Rivera Schatz, who's also the new interim president of the New Progressive Party, said Rosselló's resignation "puts an end to a very sad chapter in the history of Puerto Rico.""It was a difficult decision for him and his family, but it was the right one," Rivera said."To the people of Puerto Rico, we assure you that our efforts to improve the quality of life here ... will remain strong, and nothing will divert us from said goal."