If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) If you've been looking (unsuccessfully) for Impossible burgers, here's some good news: Shortages of the plant-based meat products appear to be over .Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. PoliticsIf "lock her up" was the definitive chant at Donald Trump's rallies in the 2016 campaign, the 2020 race might have a new -- and ugly -- counterpart. The crowd last night at the President's campaign rally in North Carolina repeatedly shouted, "Send her back!" after Trump mentioned US Rep. Ilhan Omar. The President spent a big chunk of the rally going after Omar and the three other congresswomen of color known as "the squad." They've blasted the Trump administration over its handling of migrants in detention centers on the US-Mexico border. Trump said if they don't like the policies, they can leave the country. And when the chant started, he made no effort to stop itMeanwhile, back in Washington, the House shot down an effort to impeach Trump. The vote illustrated the divide in the Democratic caucus over the issue, with 137 Dems joining all Republicans in defeating the measure. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has resisted impeaching the President, fearing a political backlash that could cost the Democrats their House majority next year. The House also voted to hold Attorney General William Barr and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross in criminal contempt in a subpoena dispute related to the administration's attempt to add a citizenship question to the 2020 census.2. Puerto RicoDemonstrators overturned barricades and police fired tear gas as protests continued through the night in San Juan against Gov. Ricardo Rosselló. Protests started days ago after nearly 900 pages of leaked chats from the governor's private group chat were published. The messages between the governor and his inner circle revealed a seemingly vengeful approach to running the US territory. Protesters and even some celebs mentioned in the chats say Rosselló is abusive and corrupt and want him to resign immediately. But Rosselló says he won't step down. Similar protests against him have unfolded in New York, Miami and Orlando.JUST WATCHED Police use tear gas in Puerto Rico protests Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police use tear gas in Puerto Rico protests 03:163. Police and social mediaAs many as 13 Philadelphia police officers are expected to be fired after an investigation into racist or offensive social media posts by cops. The officers will be suspended with intent to dismiss, according to The Philadelphia Inquirer. The police department launched an investigation last month, after a watchdog group published screenshots of offensive comments made on Facebook by law enforcement officers across the nation. Police departments in Dallas, St. Louis and Lake County, Florida, also launched investigations into claims their officers posted hateful or racist remarks. It's not clear at this point which Philadelphia officers might be fired or what they may have posted.JUST WATCHED Philadelphia officers off street duty over racist posts (June) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Philadelphia officers off street duty over racist posts (June) 01:344. Kevin SpaceyA criminal charge against actor Kevin Spacey has been dropped . Prosecutors in Massachusetts made the decision after the man who accused Spacey of assault pleaded the Fifth on the witness stand. Spacey, a two-time Oscar winner, faced a charge of indecent assault and battery for allegedly groping a young man in 2016 at a bar. Spacey's career collapsed almost two years ago -- during the beginnings of the #MeToo movement -- after several allegations of sexual assault and harassment. He's reportedly been questioned in the US by London police over alleged sex assault allegations in the UK.JUST WATCHED See text messages purportedly sent by Kevin Spacey's accuser (June) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See text messages purportedly sent by Kevin Spacey's accuser (June) 00:445. Climate crisisThe effects of climate change aren't things that will happen in the distant future in South Asia. They're happening now. More than 100 people are dead and almost 6 million are under threat from rising flood waters in the region. Hundreds of thousands have been displaced by heavy monsoon rains. Droughts and heat waves in India have killed at least 137 people. Experts say more than 100 million people there could be left without access to water in five years if the country doesn't find a solution to severe water shortages. Drought has wrecked farming in Afghanistan, while monsoon floods have marooned villages in Bangladesh. The changes are creating a new refugee crisis and sparking a terrifying question: Is this part of the world becoming unlivable for humansJUST WATCHED More than 100 dead and 6M affected by flooding Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH More than 100 dead and 6M affected by flooding 01:32THIS JUST INDevastating fireAt least 23 people are feared dead after a suspected arson attack at an animation studio in Kyoto, Japan.BREAKFAST BROWSEEngaging televisionIt's like the ultimate TV crossover event: "Modern Family's" Sarah Hyland got engaged to "The Bachelorette" contestant Wells Adams.JUST WATCHED 'Modern Family' star Sarah Hyland and Wells Adams are engaged Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Modern Family' star Sarah Hyland and Wells Adams are engaged 00:57Social media used for goodThe Vietnam vet had no known living relatives when he died. Still, thousands of people showed up at his funeral.Not too early to think about HalloweenThey're special costumes for special kids: Target is selling Halloween costumes designed for children with disabilitiesSo sweetAn 11-year-old girl wasn't sour after thieves stole $9 from her lemonade stand for charity. That's because neighbors and police donated more than $300Secret spilledAnother day, another reboot. Teen soap "Gossip Girl" is coming back next year, via HBO Max (which is owned by WarnerMedia, CNN's parent company).TODAY'S QUOTE"There was no justice here."Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman, speaking in court before he was Mexican drug lord, speaking in court before he was sentenced to life in prison (plus 30 years). He was also ordered to pay $12.6 billion in forfeiture.JUST WATCHED See all the dramatic evidence in 'El Chapo's' trial Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See all the dramatic evidence in 'El Chapo's' trial 03:02TODAY'S NUMBERS2.7 millionThe number of new subscribers Netflix added in the second quarter. It was a little more than half of what analysts were expecting, so Netflix's stock dropped 12% in after-hours trading.JUST WATCHED Netflix is winning streaming. Disney wants to change that Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Netflix is winning streaming. Disney wants to change that 04:1516The number of months a social media blackout lasted in Chad. The government has finally lifted restrictions on platforms like WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter that had been in place since March 2018.HAPPENING LATERDebate drawIt's kind of like March Madness but with politicians. The drawing for candidate lineups in the upcoming Democratic presidential debates are at 8 ET tonight on CNN and CNNgo. The debates in Detroit will be July 30 and 31 on CNN.TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Heat dome traps summer heat wave through the weekend Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Heat dome traps summer heat wave through the weekend 01:39AND FINALLYJust saying hi