(CNN) Authorities in Oregon believe they have found the remains of Charles Levin, an actor who appeared in television series like "Seinfeld" and "LA Law." He was 70 years old, according to IMDb .Levin was in the process of moving when he went missing last week, CNN affiliate KTVL reported. Levin's son in Los Angeles notified authorities of his disappearance last Monday.Authorities searched for Levin for the past week, police in Grants Pass, located about 200 miles south of Salem, said SundayLegendary Broadway star Carol Channing died January 15 at the age of 97. With her raspy voice and huge smile, Channing was best known for her Tony Award-winning role as Dolly Levi in the hit Broadway musical "Hello Dolly!"Comedian and writer Kevin Barnett , who co-created the TV series "REL," died January 22 at the age of 32, according to a statement from Twentieth Century Fox Television and Fox Entertainment. The cause of death was unknown.Acclaimed British actor and five-time Academy Award nominee Albert Finney died February 7 after a short illness. He was 82.Golden Globe-winning actress Katherine Helmond , a frequent scene-stealer on shows such as "Who's the Boss?" and "Soap," died February 23, her talent agency APA told CNN. She was 89.Actor Luke Perry , who rose to stardom in the 1990s for his role on the hit television show "Beverly Hills, 90210," died March 4, after suffering a massive stroke, his publicist told CNN. He was 52.Rapper Nipsey Hussle died March 31 after a shooting near a clothing store he owned, according to a high-ranking law enforcement official with the Los Angeles Police Department. He was 33 years old. Hussle was nominated for best rap album at this year's Grammys.Former US Sen. Ernest "Fritz" Hollings of South Carolina died April 6 at the age of 97. He was a stalwart of South Carolina politics for decades, first as the state's governor and then as a US senator for 38 years.Canadian model and actress Stefanie Sherk died April 20 at the age of 37, her husband, actor Demian Bichir, confirmed.Sherk appeared in TV offshoot "CSI: Cyber" and movies such as "Valentine's Day." Bichir did not detail the circumstances surrounding Sherk's death.Basketball Hall of Famer and eight-time NBA champion John Havlicek , one of the greatest players ever for the Boston Celtics, died April 25 at the age of 79, the team announced.Former "Wild Kingdom" host Jim Fowler , who brought his love of animals into the living rooms of a generation of Americans, died May 8 at the age of 89. Fowler, seen here at left, was a frequent guest of talk-show host Johnny Carson.Actor and comedian Tim Conway , best known for his work on "The Carol Burnett Show," died on May 14, according to his publicist. Conway was 85.Los Angeles Angels pitcher Tyler Skaggs died July 1, prompting the postponement of a game with the Texas Rangers, officials said.Skaggs, 27, was found in a hotel room in a Dallas-Fort Worth suburb, police said.Auto industry icon Lee Iacocca , once one of America's highest-profile business executives and the man credited with rescuing Chrysler from near-bankruptcy in the 1980s, died on July 2. He was 94.Actor Cameron Boyce , who starred in Disney Channel television shows, died July 7, a Disney Channel spokesperson confirmed to CNN. He was 20. A spokesperson for his family told CNN that Boyce died in his sleep after a seizure resulting from an ongoing medical condition.Actress Denise Nickerson , best known for her role as chatty gum-chewer Violet Beauregard in 1971's "Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory," died July 10, according to multiple reports citing a Facebook post from her family. She was 62.Pro wrestling legend Harley Race , an eight-time NWA world heavyweight champion, died August 1 following health complications. He was 76.Actor Peter Fonda , the star of the film "Easy Rider," died at the age of 79, his manager, Alan Somers, told CNN on August 16. Fonda was the son of legendary actor Henry Fonda and the brother of actress and activist Jane Fonda. His daughter is actress Bridget Fonda.Iconic sports broadcaster Jack Whitaker died August 18 at his home in Devon, Pennsylvania, CBS Sports confirmed. He was 95. Whitaker's career spanned nearly four decades after starting at CBS Sports in the late 1950s. There, he covered a range of sports and a number of momentous events, including the first-ever Super Bowl in 1967 and Secretariat's Triple Crown victory in 1973.Emmy-winning actress Valerie Harper , who starred as Rhoda in the hit sitcoms "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" and "Rhoda," died August 30 after a long battle with cancer. She was 80.Legendary oil executive T. Boone Pickens , whose investments helped shape the American energy industry going back to the 1950s, died September 11 at the age of 91.Veteran journalist Cokie Roberts , winner of three Emmys and a legend and trailblazer in broadcasting, died at the age of 75, ABC News announced on September 17.Mexican music icon José José died at the age of 71 after a battle with cancer, the Mexican Ministry of Culture announced on September 28.International opera star Jessye Norman , described by the New York Metropolitan Opera as "one of the great sopranos of the past half-century," died on September 30. She was 74.Actress Diahann Carroll , who in 1968 became the first African-American woman to star in a network sitcom, died October 4 after a battle with breast cancer, her publicist confirmed to CNN. She was 84.Oscar-nominated actor Robert Forster died October 11 after a battle with brain cancer. He was 78. Forster's acting career spanned more than five decades, and some of his best-known roles came in "Reflections in a Golden Eye" and "Medium Cool." He also got an Oscar nomination for his role as a bail bondsman in Quentin Tarantino's "Jackie Brown."US Rep. Elijah Cummings , a longtime Maryland Democrat and a key figure leading investigations into President Donald Trump, died at age 68, his office announced on October 17. He died of "complications concerning longstanding health challenges," his office said in a statement.Actor Michael J. Pollard, known for his roles in Bonnie and Clyde, Star Trek and Dick Tracy, has died at the age of 80.Actor Michael J. Pollard, known for his roles in Bonnie and Clyde, Star Trek and Dick Tracy, has died at the age of 80.On Friday, an emergency cell phone ping led authorities to search a remote area northeast of Selma, the Grants Pass Department of Public Safety said. But there was no sign of Levin.A resident found Levin's car on Saturday on a remote, almost impassible road. The disabled vehicle was off the roadway, police said.Levin's pug, Boo Bear, was found in the vehicle. Levin's body was located near the car, police said."Based on the circumstances, there is a high probability that the remains are those of Charles Levin," police said.The medical examiner will make the final identification of the remains, police said.Levin appeared in one episode of "Seinfeld," in 1993, according to his IMDb page.He also appeared on shows such as "Alice," "NYPD Blue," and "Hill Street Blues," according to IMDbLevin also had roles in films, such as "The Golden Child."