If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Congrats to Shane Lowry ! The Irish golfer captured his first major title by winning the Open over the weekend.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Puerto RicoPuerto Rico Gov. Ricardo Rosselló won't run for re-election next year , he announced last night. But he won't resign, which is sure to tick off the people in the US territory who have been calling for him to step down. Mass protests against Rosselló started last week after offensive private chat messages between the governor and his inner circle were made public. A national strike has been called for today and protesters also hope to shut down a major highway in San Juan.Demonstrators hold signs that say "Corruption is violence" and "Ricky resign" while protesting near the executive mansion on Thursday, July 11.Demonstrators hold signs that say "Corruption is violence" and "Ricky resign" while protesting near the executive mansion on Thursday, July 11.Police block the street leading to the governor's mansion on July 14.Police block the street leading to the governor's mansion on July 14.Protesters take to the streets of San Juan on July 15.Protesters take to the streets of San Juan on July 15.Demonstrators cover their mouths with duct tape that says "resignation" in Spanish.Demonstrators cover their mouths with duct tape that says "resignation" in Spanish.Police block the street leading to the governor's mansion on Tuesday, July 16.Police block the street leading to the governor's mansion on Tuesday, July 16.Ricky Martin holds a microphone during the march on July 17. At right is rapper Rene Perez, aka Residente.Ricky Martin holds a microphone during the march on July 17. At right is rapper Rene Perez, aka Residente.Rapper Benito Antonio Martinez Ocasio, known by his stage name Bad Bunny, holds a Puerto Rican flag before a march on July 17.Rapper Benito Antonio Martinez Ocasio, known by his stage name Bad Bunny, holds a Puerto Rican flag before a march on July 17.A protester reacts after being sprayed by tear gas in San Juan.A protester reacts after being sprayed by tear gas in San Juan.Thousands of demonstrators protest in front of the governor's mansion on July 17.Thousands of demonstrators protest in front of the governor's mansion on July 17.Rosselló defended the actions of police and accused protesters of unleashing tear gas and setting fires during demonstrations.Rosselló defended the actions of police and accused protesters of unleashing tear gas and setting fires during demonstrations.A woman is assisted in the streets after demonstrators clashed with police on Wednesday, July 17.A woman is assisted in the streets after demonstrators clashed with police on Wednesday, July 17.Singer Daddy Yankee, in the flag shirt, attends the rally on Monday.Singer Daddy Yankee, in the flag shirt, attends the rally on Monday.Puerto Rican pop star Ricky Martin, waving a rainbow flag, joins the protests on Monday. Members of the group chat that Rosselló took part in made vulgar references to the star's sexuality.Puerto Rican pop star Ricky Martin, waving a rainbow flag, joins the protests on Monday. Members of the group chat that Rosselló took part in made vulgar references to the star's sexuality.Protesters block the way to Rosselló's residence on Monday.Protesters block the way to Rosselló's residence on Monday.This aerial view, taken from a drone, shows protesters on the Expreso Las Americas highway on Monday.This aerial view, taken from a drone, shows protesters on the Expreso Las Americas highway on Monday.Protesters demonstrate near a police barricade set up along a street leading to the governor's mansion.Protesters demonstrate near a police barricade set up along a street leading to the governor's mansion.People hold up their phones during the rally outside the governor's mansion.People hold up their phones during the rally outside the governor's mansion.Protesters run away from tear gas near the governor's mansion.Protesters run away from tear gas near the governor's mansion.Police clash with protesters during demonstrations against Rosselló on Monday, July 22. The protests continued into Tuesday morning.Police clash with protesters during demonstrations against Rosselló on Monday, July 22. The protests continued into Tuesday morning.Demonstrators react Tuesday, July 23, upon hearing reports that Rosselló would step down.Demonstrators react Tuesday, July 23, upon hearing reports that Rosselló would step down.Jubilant demonstrators are seen in the streets of Old San Juan.Jubilant demonstrators are seen in the streets of Old San Juan.People in the crowd hold flowers and flags outside the governor's mansion.People in the crowd hold flowers and flags outside the governor's mansion.Demonstrators react in front of the governor's mansion, known as La Fortaleza.Demonstrators react in front of the governor's mansion, known as La Fortaleza.Protesters celebrate in Old San Juan, Puerto Rico, after Gov. Ricardo Rosselló announced that he will resign.Protesters celebrate in Old San Juan, Puerto Rico, after Gov. Ricardo Rosselló announced that he will resign.2. IranJUST WATCHED New audio reveals moments leading up to tanker's seizure Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New audio reveals moments leading up to tanker's seizure 02:413. Hong KongAre organized crime gangs becoming involved in the political crisis in Hong Kong? That's the question being asked after the city experienced a night of chaos after another day of protest s. Tens of thousands of people marched in a seventh consecutive weekend of demonstrations over a now-suspended extradition bill. But last night, groups of masked men attacked people at train stations and on trains in an area north of the city. Forty-five people were hospitalized. Organized crimes gangs are known to operate in Hong Kong's outer areas and the fear now is that they're inserting themselves into this crisis. As for the protests, the marches yesterday started out peacefully, but ended with law enforcement firing tear gas and rubber bullets at protesters who charged at police.JUST WATCHED Police fire rubber bullets and tear gas in clash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police fire rubber bullets and tear gas in clash 03:054. Bulgaria data hackIf you live in Bulgaria, chances are pretty good you've been hacked . Hackers stole the personal data of more than 5 million Bulgarians (the country has about 7 million residents), meaning that just about every working adult there has been affected. The data was stolen from Bulgaria's tax revenue office. A 20-year-old cybersecurity worker has been arrested in connection with the hack. The attack is extraordinary, but not unique . Despite the strict data protection law that came into effect last year across the European Union, hacks are still happening because it doesn't take a sophisticated and carefully planned operation to break into IT systems. Tools available on the dark web make it possible for amateurs to break into computer systems.People walk outside Bulgaria's National Revenue Agency building in Sofia, Bulgaria, on July 16, 2019.5. WeatherThe heat wave that's baked half the nation will start to end today . People in the Midwest and Northeast should wake up to cooler temperatures this morning, CNN meteorologist Michael Guy says. A cold front from Canada has swooped south, bringing rain and relief from the heat. The heat wave, which stretched from New Mexico to Maine, resulted in two deaths and left tens of thousands of people without power. But not everybody was suffering under the heat dome. Parts of Montana reported record lows, with temperatures plunging to only 38 degrees Fahrenheit over the weekend.JUST WATCHED Severe storms ushering in cooler air Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe storms ushering in cooler air 01:47TODAY'S NUMBER19The number of people killed by tainted alcohol in Costa RicaBREAKFAST BROWSEActivate 'Phase 4'JUST WATCHED Natalie Portman will swing the hammer in new 'Thor' movie Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Natalie Portman will swing the hammer in new 'Thor' movie 01:22Why we can't have nice thingsCalifornia's Daffodil Hill, an Instagram magnet near Sacramento, has closed to visitors because of overtourism.Too many tourists are crowding Daffodil Hill in California.Happy birthdayPrince George is 6 years old today, and Kensington Palace celebrated by releasing new photos of the future king wearing an England soccer jersey.In this undated photo released by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge on Sunday, July 21, 2019, Britain's Prince George poses for a photo taken by his mother, Kate, the Duchess of Cambridge, in the garden of their home at Kensington Palace, London.'Glow-in-the-dark shark, doo doo doo doo doo doo'Meet the newly discovered species of tiny sharks that scientists say can glow in the dark.The newly discovered species is a tiny subset of sharks dubbed the American Pocket Shark, or Mollisquama mississippiensis, according to research published by Tulane University in July.TODAY'S NUMBER36 millionThe number of trees that American cities are losing each yearAND FINALLYCuteness alert!