(CNN) They have taken place across the country. From Georgia to California. At elementary, middle and high schools. On college and university campuses.In 46 weeks this year, there have been 45 school shootings. That's nearly an average of one school shooting a week.Of those, 32 of them were at facilities serving Kindergarten through 12th grade.Since there is no single definition for what qualifies as a school shooting, CNN set the following parameters:November 15Pleasantville, New JerseyGunfire erupted at a high school football game , injuring an adult and two minors. Five men were charged."Unlike some of the shootings that have occurred on school premises throughout the country, this incident had nothing to do with the students of Pleasantville High School or Camden High School," Atlantic County Prosecutor Damon G. Tyner said."The venue simply presented an opportunity for criminals to pursue their own form of petty vengeance against one another."November 14Santa Clarita, CaliforniaNovember 11BaltimoreA 19-year-old student was shot by a masked gunman while getting out of a car at Achievement Academy , a high school. His injuries were non-life-threatening. Authorities believe an altercation occurred between the victim and shooter.November 5Langston, OklahomaA man was shot in the leg outside a dorm on the Langston University campus. He was taken via helicopter to an Oklahoma City hospital.November 4Warrensburg, MissouriUniversity of Central Missouri student was shot and killed after a gun was accidentally discharged in an on-campus apartment.November 3Waco, TexasA 30-year-old student was shot in the chest and killed in a Texas State Technical College housing facility. Police believe the 20-year-old shooter and the victim were involved in a relationship dispute that turned into a physical fight.October 27Clarksville, TennesseeA 22-year-old man was shot and killed outside an Austin Peay State University residence hall. Police believe the incident was a drug deal gone wrong.October 27Laurel, MarylandA 38-year-old woman was shot during a nighttime gathering in the parking lot of Laurel Woods Elementary School , police say.October 22Santa Rosa, CaliforniaA 16-year-old student was shot by another student outside Ridgway High School in what police believe to be a gang-related incident. The victim was taken to the hospital and later released.October 18Grambling, LouisianaA student and a police officer were shot and injured in a Grambling State University assembly center. During an event, two men were involved in an altercation when one produced a gun and shot the other twice in the chest. As police tried to intervene, an officer was shot in the leg.Both victims were transported to the hospital. The officer sustained non-life-threatening injuries, while the other man was in critical condition.October 13NashvilleA 19-year-old student was shot in the abdomen and killed in a Tennessee State University dorm. The incident occurred after an 18-year-old classmate discharged a stolen gun he was playing with. The shooter and victim thought the gun was a pellet gun.October 11Rayne, LouisianaAfter a football game at Rayne High School's stadium let out, multiple shots were fired into the parking lot, according to police. One person was hit and taken to the hospital. Police have arrested the men believed to be involved in the shooting.October 9Lowell, MassachusettsTwo men entered the playground at Greenhalge Elementary School and shot indiscriminately at children with BB guns, hitting five children. Two injured children were taken to the hospital with non-life-threatening injuries.October 8HoustonA gun was discharged after school hours at Westbury High School , injuring one student.September 20Orangeburg, South CarolinaTwo women were shot outside a South Carolina State University residential building, according to university officials. Their injuries were not life-threatening.September 16Fayetteville, North CarolinaA 20-year-old former college football player was found with numerous gunshot wounds on Fayetteville State University 's campus. He was taken to the hospital in serious condition.September 14Fort Worth, TexasA woman and a girl were injured when a fight between a group of parents led to a shooting at an Eastern Hills Elementary School football game, police said.September 13Newport News, VirginiaA teenager was shot outside Todd Stadium after a Newport News High School football game ended. The stadium is owned by Newport News Public Schools.August 30Toledo, OhioA 16-year-old was shot following an altercation as crowds left a high school football game at Central Catholic High School , police say.August 30Mobile, AlabamaAt least 10 teenagers were injured in a shooting at Lad Peebles Stadium during a football game between LeFlore High School and Williamson High School.August 27Los AngelesA boy was shot in the jaw while waiting in line for school lunch at Hollenbeck Middle School . Authorities believe the shots came from off school campus.August 24PhiladelphiaAugust 23Conyers, GeorgiaJuly 11Hartford, ConnecticutA man, 34, was riding his bike through a Bulkeley High School parking lot when he was shot at least once. He died from his injuries.July 2Anchorage, AlaskaA 22-year-old shot a teenager at the basketball court of Williwaw Elementary Schoo l after a fight broke out among a group of people, according to authorities. The teen was transported to the hospital with life-threatening injuries but survived.July 1Bronx, New YorkA 13-year-old boy was shot in the chest at the School of Science and Applied Learning 's playground. He was transported to the hospital in serious but stable condition.June 21Flint, MichiganA 15-year-old student was critically injured in a shooting at a parking lot outside Carman-Ainsworth High School . The incident happened after a fight among dozens of students had broken out on school property and expanded to the area where the teen was shot, according to police.June 6ChicagoA 25-year-old man was playing basketball at Genevieve Melody STEM Elementary School when he was shot in the leg, the Chicago Police Department told CNN.May 17Jacksonville, FloridaA student was shot during a spring football game at Terry Parker High School . The victim was taken to a hospital with life-threatening injuries, but police later said he was in stable condition.May 7Savannah, GeorgiaOne Savannah State University student was shot near a campus residential facility and transported to a hospital. The student was expected to recover . The alleged shooter was not a student.May 7Highlands Ranch, ColoradoMay 4Eugene, OregonA 21-year-old man died from a gunshot wound after being shot in a parking lot near a fraternity house at the University of OregonApril 30Charlotte, North CarolinaA gunman opened fire on the final day of classes at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, killing two people and wounding four others -- three of them critically, authorities said. The shooter, 22, was a former student.April 1Prescott, ArkansasA student shot a fellow 8th-grade student in the hallway of Prescott High School , sheriff's deputies said. The injured boy was airlifted to the hospital. The school district said the shooting appeared to be a premeditated attack.March 27Lexington, MississippiA 10-year-old student riding the bus home from Holmes County Elementary School was injured after he was struck by a bullet in his left hand. It's unclear where the bullet came from. The fifth-grader said another student on the bus shot him, but the school district said the bus was the target of a drive-by shooting.March 7Grambling, LouisianaA gun accidentally discharged in a Grambling State University dorm, injuring one student.February 26Montgomery, AlabamaA 17-year-old student at Robert E. Lee High School was shot in the arm in the school's gym. The student's injury was non-life-threatening. Authorities said the suspect was a minor and likely a fellow student.February 17Centennial, ColoradoA 46-year-old man was shot multiple times by his neighbor at Eaglecrest High School amid an ongoing argument over a parking spot. The victim died from his injuries.February 12Kansas City, MissouriA 15-year-old girl was shot outside Central Academy of Excellence during a basketball game. Police said the victim had fought with two shooting suspects, 21 and 18, during the game. The suspects were escorted out of the game and allegedly shot the girl when she left the building a short time later.February 8BaltimoreFrederick Douglass High School staff member was seriously injured after a 25-year-old man entered the school and shot him. The shooter is a family member of the victim, police said.January 31Humble, TexasA 16-year-old student was shot at Atascocita High School while trying to buy marijuana from a 17-year-old student, sheriff's deputies said. The student who was shot suffered non-life-threatening wounds, and police identified the shooter after he posted about the incident on Snapchat.January 31Memphis, TennesseeA 14-year-old student at Manassas High Schoo l ROTC was sent to the hospital for injuries after he was shot with a pellet gun at school.January 30Lithonia, GeorgiaA man was injured when he was shot outside Miller Grove High School after school hours. The victim, who was not a student, was running on the school's track when he saw someone trying to break into his vehicle. When he confronted the man, he was shot once, police saidJanuary 25Mobile, AlabamaTwo men, ages 17 and 20, got into an altercation outside W.P. Davidson High School that led to the exchange of gunfire, police said. Both were injured. At least one of the men was not a student at the school, the principal said.January 7Belmont, California