If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White HousePresident Trump struck back at the UK diplomat who called him "inept" and "clumsy" in leaked diplomatic cables . Trump, through tweets of course, said his White House would no longer deal with British Ambassador to the US Kim Darroch. A spokesman for outgoing UK Prime Theresa May said she still has "full faith" in Darroch, but it's hard to see at this point how he can effectively do his job. Trump's tweets were more than just him lashing out at someone who ticked him off. The President, CNN's Stephen Collinson says, is trying to gain political leverage over the Brits and make it harder for another country to get "accurate diplomatic reporting and internal intelligence" on his administration.2. Jeffrey EpsteinMillionaire Jeffrey Epstein was indicted yesterday, accused of operating a sex trafficking ring in which he sexually abused dozens of underage girls. Epstein, 66, is not only accused of paying girls as young as 14 to have sex with him, but federal prosecutors say he paid some of his victims to recruit other girls for him to abuse. Epstein pleaded not guilty to two charges; he faces up to 45 years in prison if convicted of both counts.JUST WATCHED Epstein pleads not guilty to sex trafficking of minors Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Epstein pleads not guilty to sex trafficking of minors 02:43s3. Hong KongHong Kong's leader said the controversial extradition bill that spurred millions of people to protest "is dead." But Carrie Lam didn't say the bill would be formally withdrawn , something the demonstrators are still demanding. The bill, which would allow for Hong Kong residents to be extradited to mainland China, is suspended and will officially die when the current session of Hong Kong's parliament expires next summer. But protesters are worried that the bill might be revived before then, so they're demanding that lawmakers take the steps necessary to formally withdraw it immediately. Critics of the bill fear it could be used to target Hong Kong dissidents for prosecution in China.JUST WATCHED Hong Kong and China: One country, two systems Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hong Kong and China: One country, two systems 02:124. Campaign 2020JUST WATCHED Steyer critiques Pelosi's Trump comment: Good grief (June) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Steyer critiques Pelosi's Trump comment: Good grief (June) 01:085. WeatherThe first tropical system of the hurricane season may be in the Gulf of Mexico by the end of the week. The National Hurricane Center says the chances of a system developing in the Gulf by then is up to 80%. The storm could affect an area from the Florida Panhandle to south Louisiana. So, if you live along the Gulf Coast, now would be a great time to review your hurricane preparedness and evacuation plans.TODAY'S QUOTE"I was rolled."Steve Spangle, a former field supervisor with the US Fish and Wildlife Service, who said he was , a former field supervisor with the US Fish and Wildlife Service, who said he was pressured by the Trump administration to reverse an environmental decision, which allowed a proposed housing and golf project in Arizona to move forwardBREAKFAST BROWSEWhere the heart isA World War II sailor's Purple Heart was found in an Arizona thrift store. Now, Goodwill is trying to find his familyFriends in low placesIf you frequent dive bars, keep an eye out for a man in a black cowboy hat. It might be Garth Brooks , doing his seven-city dive bar tour.Looking out for youAn honor guard member's shoelace became untied during a July 4 parade in Arlington, Texas. Luckily, this 10-year-old boy was aroundWhere's Mufasa?The cast of #TheLionKing. The king arrives in theatres next Friday, July 19. pic.twitter.com/LWF8ovbSmT — The Lion King (@disneylionking) July 8, 2019TODAY'S NUMBER14 millionThe number of people who watched Team USA win the 2019 Women's World Cup. That ranks as one of the highest-rated soccer telecasts in history.JUST WATCHED Rapinoe to advertisers: Put your money where your mouth is Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rapinoe to advertisers: Put your money where your mouth is 02:47AND FINALLYLet's go