If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.A new study found 60% of beaches across America had unsafe levels of pollution last year . Just the thing you want to learn before heading out on your late summer trip! Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. MuellerIt's going to be a huge day for Robert Mueller and those who have hung on every detail of his investigation into President Trump. The former special counsel is in Washington today for a pair of blockbuster congressional hearings that could serve as a make-or-break moment for Democratic leaders deciding whether to pursue an impeachment inquiry. Mueller will publicly testify before the House Judiciary and Intelligence committees and answer questions about his findings. Will he simply recite portions of his 448-page report and stick close to what is already public knowledge, or will he drop some bombshell revelation? Democratic leaders are tamping down expectations for the latter. "I am fairly realistic about the degree to which any single hearing, any single witness can really move the country in a particular direction," said House Intelligence Chairman Adam Schiff. Meanwhile, President Trump says he probably won't watch . Well, he may, a "little bit."2. UK Prime MinisterBoris Johnson will officially take up the mantle of Prime Minister today in the UK. Here's how it will go down : Teresa May will make her last appearance as PM before formally resigning in front of the Queen. Then, the Queen will ask Johnson if he is capable of forming a government. When he confirms, she will invite him to be Britain's next leader. In the next few days, Johnson is expected to sweep out most of May's cabinet and replace them with his own appointments. After that? Well, there's the looming Brexit crisis to attend to. Americans as well as Europeans are on guard to see what the new Prime Minister will do -- it's no secret the new Conservative party leader has drawn close comparisons with President Trump3. Puerto RicoSpeaking of resignations, Puerto Rico's embattled governor Ricardo Rosselló is expected to resign today after more than a week of protests that have rocked the capital city of San Juan. The dominos began to fall yesterday when Rosselló's chief of staff handed in his resignation , citing the welfare of his family amid the ongoing unrest. The protests erupted after the publication of offensive group chat messages about Hurricane Maria victims exchanged between the governor and members of his inner circle. However, for demonstrators, the messages were just the last in a long line of offenses. They have also cited government corruption, high poverty rates, crushing debt and a painfully slow recovery after Hurricane Maria crippled the island in 2017. Should Rosselló resign, Puerto Rico Secretary of Justice Wanda Vazquez is expected to take his place.JUST WATCHED Source: Puerto Rico governor expected to resign Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Source: Puerto Rico governor expected to resign 00:384. ICEA high school student who was born in Dallas and is a US citizen was released from ICE custody yesterday after spending three weeks behind bars . Immigration and Customs Enforcement detained Francisco Galicia and his brother Marlon at a checkpoint 100 miles north of the US-Mexico border last month. Marlon Galicia, who does not have legal status in the US, was returned to Mexico, but 18-year-old Francisco remained in custody despite providing documentation that he was a US citizen. Galicia is the latest in a long line of US citizens who have been erroneously apprehended and detained by ICE. A 2018 investigation found that ICE had released more than 1,400 people from custody since 2012 after investigating citizenship claims. Galicia's story has become a parable for immigration rights advocates who have condemned the actions of ICE and border patrol agents5. Cuba sonic attacksNo one knows what was behind the "sonic attacks" experienced by US government personnel in Havana, Cuba starting in late 2016, but a study published yesterday says the attacks literally changed the victims' brains . MRI brain scans from 40 patients showed similar changes in different parts of the brain related to auditory, visual and motion processing. Researchers said the changes didn't fit a pattern of a specific disorder, but did resemble "clinical symptoms which are concussion-like." The US employees stationed in Havana reported hearing "intensely loud" sounds coming from a specific direction, and complained of symptoms ranging from sharp ear pain and headaches to vertigo and attention issues.JUST WATCHED Study: Cuba 'sonic attacks' changed people's brains Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Study: Cuba 'sonic attacks' changed people's brains 02:47BREAKFAST BROWSEKellogg's is pairing with a wine company to offer a Cheez-It and boxed wine comboTake a look inside this Japanese village where cloth scarecrow dolls outnumber people 10 to oneJUST WATCHED Scarecrows outnumber people in this tiny village Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Scarecrows outnumber people in this tiny village 01:44Nike's rare 'moon shoe' sold for $437,500, shattering the auction record for shoesSpaceX will launch Nickelodeon slime and an Adidas soccer ball into spaceThe day after that Facebook event to storm Area 51, there's another plan to storm Loch Ness to 'find dat big boi'TODAY'S QUOTE"Yes, President Trump is a racist. What we saw in North Carolina last week was almost an impromptu Nuremberg rally, inciting hatred and ultimately, I think implicit in that, is violence against people based on the color of their skin, based on their religion, based on their difference from the majority of Americans."Beto O'Rourke, Democratic presidential candidate discussing President Trump's rally in Greenville, North Carolina, last week . During the rally, people began to chant, "Send her back," referring to Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar, who was born in Somalia but has since become a naturalized US citizen.TODAY'S NUMBER183 tonsTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Stormy weather pushes south Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Stormy weather pushes south 01:39AND FINALLYWon't you be my neighbor?