If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.A memorial for a glacier? Yes, indeed. A plaque memorializing Okjökull, the first Icelandic glacier lost to climate change , will be installed next month.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Budget agreementWashington won't have to worry about a fiscal crisis, at least for two years. President Trump and congressional leaders reached a two-year budget agreement which suspends the debt ceiling until July 2021 and eliminates the budget caps put into place in 2011. The agreement, which still has to pass Congress and then be signed into law, pushes the political battle over looming spending cuts and the debt ceiling deadline well past next year's elections. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told CNN all sides wanted to get a deal done to avoid a stock market collapse and avert the fiscal fallout that would come if the debt ceiling wasn't raised. Republicans are happy because they'll get increased spending for defense, while Democrats are pleased because they'll get more money for domestic programs.2. UK prime ministerBritain should know who its next prime minister will be soon . The results of the Conservative party leader election will be announced later today. The winner of that race will not only lead the party but also replace Theresa May as prime minister. Pro-Brexit firebrand Boris Johnson is the favorite to win the job. Johnson, a former mayor of London, has been called one of the most divisive politicians of his generation. And he's seen by many as the man who most influenced the UK's decision to leave the European Union. Click here to read more about himJUST WATCHED Theresa May set to resign as UK prime minister Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Theresa May set to resign as UK prime minister 03:323. Venezuela blackoutThe power is out -- again -- in Venezuela. It's the fourth nationwide blackout in the South American country this year. Officials are blaming it on a hostile "electromagnetic attack," but the exact cause of the outage remains unclear at this point. Power was restored to Caracas early this morning, the government said. The outages are exacerbating a broader political crisis that has gripped the country for years. Runaway inflation and food scarcity has crippled Venezuela, with tens of thousands leaving the country in a mass exodus.People are silhouetted by the lights of a vehicle as they cross a street in Caracas on July 22, 2019 during a blackout.4. Canada deathsPolice in Canada say there might be a connection between the killing of a young couple and the disappearance of two teens in the same region of British Columbia. The couple -- American Chynna Deese, 24, and her Australian boyfriend Lucas Fowler, 23 -- were found shot to death last week on a highway. Police have been searching for the two missing teens -- Kam McLeod, 19, and Bryer Schmegelsky, 18 -- since Friday, after their car was found burning on the side of a road. (And while investigating the fire, police found the body of a man more than a mile away.) Police said it's unusual for investigators in northern British Columbia to have two "complex and dynamic" cases at once.JUST WATCHED Officials implore public for help after double homicide Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Officials implore public for help after double homicide 01:185. MalariaHere are two words you don't want to hear in connection with malaria: drug resistant. A pair of new studies say drug-resistant strains of the disease are indeed spreading through Southeast Asia , and that's raising fears of a "potential global health emergency." A strain that's resistant to multiple drugs has evolved and mutated into several new subgroups, the studies say. They have been found in Thailand, Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam. The strains have rendered a widely-used drug essentially ineffective, leading to treatment failures at "alarmingly high rates." The new findings come as countries and health experts struggle to fight the parasitic disease. There have been some successes -- Algeria and Argentina were declared malaria-free in May -- but in other places, cases have been rising significantly.BREAKFAST BROWSERIP, ArtArt Neville was more than just one of the founding members of the Neville Brothers. He was a New Orleans music icon. He died yesterday at age 81Art "Poppa Funk" Neville performs on April 23, 2015 in New Orleans.Won't you be my neighbor?The first trailer for the upcoming Fred Rogers biopic is out, and it proves that Tom Hanks is absolutely perfect as Mister Rogers.Tom Hanks as Mister RogersCrazy crashHe had $140 million worth of meth in his vehicle. Then he crashed it into a parked police car . Oops.A police car damaged after it was allegedly hit by a van carrying a large meth haul in Sydney, Australia, on July 23, 2019.Final fightThe late Beth Chapman's final reality show will air later this fall. It centers on her work with a team of bounty hunters -- and documents her battle with cancer.JUST WATCHED 'Dog the Bounty Hunter' opens up about wife's death Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Dog the Bounty Hunter' opens up about wife's death 01:00Son of the yearRemember the man who scaled -- like a real-life Spiderman -- a burning 19-story building in Philly last week? Turns out he was doing it to save his momJUST WATCHED Man escapes building in true 'Spider-Man' fashion Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man escapes building in true 'Spider-Man' fashion 00:38TODAY'S NUMBER$700 millionThat's how much Equifax may have to pay to state and federal regulators to settle investigations stemming from a data breach that exposed the personal information of almost 150 million peopleTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Tropical Depression #3 sits off South Florida coast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tropical Depression #3 sits off South Florida coast 01:43QUOTE OF THE DAY"I was willing to give him that seat. I would have also given a seat to any other viable candidate, from both sides."Nationally syndicated country music radio host Blair Garner, who said he was surprised and flattered when 2020 Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg approached him about appearing on Garner's show. But Garner's interview with Buttigieg was reportedly spiked by his employer , Cumulus Media, sparking cries of censorship.Democratic presidential candidate and South Bend, Indiana, mayor Pete Buttigieg.AND FINALLY'Twas blind but now I see