If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Apollo 11 launched 50 years ago today. Here's how astronaut Michael Collins remembers the mission that put humans on the moon. And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. PoliticsThe House of Representatives plans to vote on a resolution condemning President Trump's racist tweets about four Democratic women of color. It's not clear when the vote will take place , but House Speaker Nancy Pelosi urged GOP lawmakers to join Democrats in "condemning the President's xenophobic tweets." A few Republicans emerged yesterday to condemn Trump's tweets, but others stayed silent.And a few, like US Sen. Lindsey Graham, backed the President, with Graham saying the "squad" -- as US Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ayanna Pressley, Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib have come to be called -- are just a bunch of communists who hate America. Trump doubled down on his extreme rhetoric , saying his tweets weren't racist and that he's unbothered by statements of support from white nationalists, who say they hear common cause in the President's words. The congresswomen responded in a news conference, urging Americans not to be baited or distracted by Trump's taunts.2. Julian AssangeWikiLeaks founder Julian Assange turned the Ecuadorian Embassy in London into a command center and coordinated a series of damaging disclosures that rocked the 2016 US presidential campaign. The evidence for this comes in new documents obtained exclusively by CNN. Surveillance reports describe how Assange -- now serving a one-year prison term in London -- received potentially hacked materials related to the election via in-person deliveries. The documents build on the possibility, raised by special counsel Robert Mueller in his report on Russian meddling, that couriers brought hacked files to Assange at the embassy.JUST WATCHED Exclusive: Assange turned embassy into command post in 2016 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Exclusive: Assange turned embassy into command post in 2016 09:143. Puerto RicoPressure is building on Puerto Rico Gov. Ricardo Rosselló to step down after remarks he made in a private group chat were made public. Puerto Ricans demonstrated against Rosselló over the weekend, and police gassed some protesters last night in San Juan. The messages between the governor and his inner circle reveal a seemingly vengeful approach to running the US territory, including attacking journalists by discrediting stories and threatening to turn over political opponents to police. The Center for Investigative Journalism published almost 900 pages from the private group chat.4. Sadie Roberts-JosephWhy would anyone want to hurt Sadie Roberts-Joseph? The 75-year-old community leader and activist in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, was found dead last week in the trunk of her car . The death is being investigated as a homicide, Baton Rouge Police Chief Murphy Paul said. Roberts-Joseph was suffocated, an autopsy found. She was the founder of an African-American museum in the city and a nonprofit focused on creating a safer environment for children. "She's a jewel in this community," said Paul, who promised an arrest in the case.JUST WATCHED Beloved activist found dead in trunk of car Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Beloved activist found dead in trunk of car 01:565. Teens and screensDo your teenagers spend a lot of time on social media? Are they glued to TV a lot, too? It might be a good idea to have them unplug for a while. A new study suggests a link between heavy amounts of screen time and depression . The study, published yesterday in the journal JAMA Pediatrics, says that for every additional hour young people spend on social media or watching TV, the severity of depressive symptoms goes up within that same year. "To our knowledge, the present study is the first to present a developmental analysis of variations in depression and various types of screen time," researchers wrote.Photos: How social media affects the teenage brain Researchers at UCLA's Brain Mapping Center found that when teenagers' photos get lots of "likes" on social media apps, such as Instagram, their brains respond in a similar way to seeing loved ones or winning money. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: How social media affects the teenage brain Thirty-two teenagers took part in the experiment, with brain scans showing how their nucleus accumbens -- the part of their brain linked to rewards -- became especially active. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: How social media affects the teenage brain Being appreciated on social media, through "likes," was seen in brain scans to activate the reward centers of the brain, pictured. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: How social media affects the teenage brain Reward circuitry is thought to be particularly sensitive during adolescence, which may partly explain why teenagers are such avid social media users. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: How social media affects the teenage brain The teenagers were shown a bespoke version of Instagram during the experiment where the "likes" they saw weren't given by their peers, but instead assigned by the research team.Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: How social media affects the teenage brain The teens were shown "neutral" photos showing things like food and friends, and "risky" photos depicting cigarettes and alcohol, pictured. The study found that teens were more likely to "like" popular photos, regardless of the type of image. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: How social media affects the teenage brain While social media has the potential to influence teenagers in good ways, it's important for parents to be aware of who their teens are interacting with online, says Lauren Sherman, lead author of the study. Hide Caption 7 of 7BREAKFAST BROWSESuper surpriseErick Hill's 6th birthday was anything but special: His house burned down. But some firefighters stepped in to save his special dayElvis has entered the buildingActor Austin Butler (yes, we had to Google him, too) will play the King of Rock 'n' Roll in a new biopic opposite Tom Hanks.Back to ParadiseIt's been eight months since the Camp Fire decimated Paradise, California. Now, the city welcomes back the first family to rebuild its homeNot a Florida storyPolice are telling people in one Tennessee town to stop flushing drugs down the toilet because it could create "meth gators."The robots are comingThe next time you yell at the umpire at an MLB game, you might be screaming at a "robo ump."HAPPENING LATERAwards timeEmmy nominations will be announced this morning . Expect lots of love for sentimental faves, "Game of Thrones" and "Veep."JUST WATCHED TV stars reveal how they watch their favorite shows Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH TV stars reveal how they watch their favorite shows 01:38TODAY'S QUOTE"The US Air Force always stands ready to protect America and its assets."Air Force spokeswoman, telling the Washington Post that UFO enthusiasts An, telling the Washington Post that UFO enthusiasts should stand down from their plan to storm Area 51 and "see them aliens."JUST WATCHED Talk of UFOs comes to Washington Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Talk of UFOs comes to Washington 01:16TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED More rain from Barry over the Mid-South Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH More rain from Barry over the Mid-South 01:34AND FINALLYForaging fun