Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – The cold snaps across the United States seem endless, but with each new snowfall, there's an opportunity to capture a new perspective on winter, just like what Jeffrey Goodman did when he photographed this snowflake outside his Mentor, Ohio, home. Hide Caption 1 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – The Ohio teacher enjoys taking photos of the wintry weather. Hide Caption 2 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – Throughout January, Goodman photographed snowflakes after snowstorms would come through his area. Hide Caption 3 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – Goodman used his iPhone 5s and a macrolens attachment to photograph these delicate snowflakes. Hide Caption 4 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – "It has been an extremely cold winter this year with many days being in the single digits or below zero temperature range," Goodman said. Hide Caption 5 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – "Most people grumble and complain about the cold and snow here in northeast Ohio," Goodman said. Hide Caption 6 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – "But I've discovered that if you take the time to look close enough, the designs and patterns in these snowflakes can warm hearts," he added. Hide Caption 7 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – "These were all taken in the last few weeks during the many snow storms that have blown through northeast Ohio this January," Goodman said. Hide Caption 8 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – One of Goodman's favorite parts about winter is having the chance to dive into some winter nature photography. Hide Caption 9 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – "It's been awe-inspiring to find such beauty in the tiny details that mother nature can produce in the midst of an arctic invasion," Goodman said. Hide Caption 10 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – Nature photographer Candice Trimble spent one morning photographing snowflakes falling in her hometown of Front Royal, Virginia. Hide Caption 11 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – "The flakes melt fast when they hit any warmth so I had to move quickly," she explained. Hide Caption 12 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – "I have exactly 45 inches of hair, so luckily I had enough to literally lay out in front of me to catch snowflakes," Trimble said. Hide Caption 13 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – " I love all of my snowflake pictures," she said. Hide Caption 14 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – It snowed about 10 inches in her hometown when Trimble took these photos. Hide Caption 15 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – 14-year-old Will Schweizsr decided to test out his new camera by capturing macro shots of the snow that fell in Santa Fe, New Mexico. "I went outside, set my Washington Nationals hat on the edge of the porch and let the snowflakes fall onto it," he said. Hide Caption 16 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – "After about 45 minutes of trying to get the perfect snowflake, I went over my pictures," said Schweizsr. "Every so often I captured a great picture of a snowflake in perfect or almost perfect focus." Hide Caption 17 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – Charles Slyer says he's always enjoyed reading the book "Snowflake Bentley," about a snowflake photographer, to his two daughters. "I would always tell them some day I will capture (an) image for them!" he said. And this winter, he did. These flakes landed on a pane of glass in his back yard. Hide Caption 18 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – Graduate student Michael Charnick has spent much of the past two months capturing snowflakes on the New York shores of Lake Ontario. It's part of a weather research project called OWLeS Hide Caption 19 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – Charnick and his fellow scientists working on the project collect snowflakes on a felt plate "in order to characterize the crystals falling form the sky during (weather) balloon launches." Hide Caption 20 of 22Photos: Your wintry snowflake photos Catching snowflakes in wintry weather – Charnick has a degree in meteorology and is now studying weather intelligence and risk management. Hide Caption 21 of 22