(CNN) Here's a look at investigations into Russian meddling during the 2016 presidential race between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.Select congressional and federal investigationsIn July of 2016, the FBI launched a counterintelligence investigation into possible links between the Russian government and Trump campaign officials.The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence - On January 25, 2017, the committee announced that it is investigating Russia's active measures during the presidential campaign as well as the underlying intelligence that led to the DNI's conclusions about Russia's intentions. The committee was led by Devin Nunes (R-CA) and Adam Schiff (D-CA) prior to 2019. (Nunes stepped away from the probe temporarily after the Ethics Committee announced it was looking into allegations he made - On January 25, 2017, the committee announced that it is investigating Russia's active measures during the presidential campaign as well as the underlying intelligence that led to the DNI's conclusions about Russia's intentions. The committee was led by Devin Nunes (R-CA) and Adam Schiff (D-CA) prior to 2019. (Nunes stepped away from the probe temporarily after the Ethics Committee announced it was looking into allegations he made unauthorized disclosures of classified information. When Nunes stepped away, Mike Conaway (R-TX) took his place. Even though Nunes said that he was formally stepping away from his role leading the investigation, he continued to review classified intelligence on Russia matters and he still had sway issuing subpoenas.)The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform - On March 22 , 2017, the committee requested information about former National Security Adviser Mike Flynn's paid speaking engagements overseas. After Trump fired On March 222017, the committee requested information about former National Security Adviser Mike Flynn's paid speaking engagements overseas. After Trump fired FBI Director James Comey, the committee began looking into the circumstances surrounding the dismissal.Special Counsel - On May 17, 2017, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special counsel to lead an investigation into Russian interference and related matters that could result in criminal prosecutions. On May 17, 2017, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special counsel to lead an investigation into Russian interference and related matters that could result in criminal prosecutions. On March 22, 2019, the Justice Department announced the special counsel's office completed its probe , after 22 months, charges against 37 defendants, seven guilty pleas and one conviction at trial. A redacted version of Mueller's report was released on April 18, 2019.TimelineApril 12, 2015 - Clinton officially launches her presidential campaign.June 16, 2015 - Trump launches his campaign.February 2016 - Flynn, Flynn, a retired general and former director of the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), begins advising Trump on foreign policy matters, according to Reuters. Flynn became a prominent critic of the Obama administration after he was ousted from the DIA in 2014.March 29, 2016 - Paul Manafort, a veteran GOP consultant, joins the Trump campaign as a strategist to help prepare for the Republican National Convention.May 19, 2016 - Manafort is promoted to chief strategist and campaign chairman.June 3, 2016 - Trump Jr. Trump Jr. receives an email from Rob Goldstone, a music publicist whose clients include Azerbaijani-Russian singer Emin Agalarov. Goldstone tells Trump Jr. that a Russian lawyer, working on behalf of the Kremlin, wants to pass along incriminating information about Clinton. He explains that Russia and its government want to support Trump by providing opposition research on Clinton. Trump Jr. indicates he is interested in seeing the information and suggests arranging a call.June 7-8, 2016 - Goldstone sends Trump Jr. another email about setting up an in-person meeting with a "Russian government attorney" who will be flying from Moscow to New York on June 9, to talk to representatives from the Trump campaign at Trump Tower in New York. Trump loops in Manafort and Kushner.June 9, 2016 - Manafort, Kushner and Trump Jr. meet with Russian attorney Natalia Veselnitskaya. It is unclear what is discussed during the meeting, which was set up as a discussion of Russian-sourced opposition research on Clinton. Manafort, Kushner and Trump Jr. meet with Russian attorney Natalia Veselnitskaya. It is unclear what is discussed during the meeting, which was set up as a discussion of Russian-sourced opposition research on Clinton. Trump Jr. later says that Veselnitskaya did not present any valuable information during the meeting. The elder Trump did not participate, according to his legal team.June 12, 2016 - During an interview on British television, During an interview on British television, WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange says that the website has obtained and will publish a batch of Clinton emails.August 14, 2016 - The New York Times publishes a report that $12.7 million in illegal cash payments to Manafort were listed in a secret ledger linked to former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych, who resigned amid street protests. Manafort had worked as an adviser to Yanukovych and his associates dating back at least a decade.October 6, 2016 - DCLeaks, a self-described collective of "hacktivists" seeking to expose the influence of special interests on elected officials, publishes a batch of documents stolen from Clinton ally Capricia Marshall. DCLeaks is later identified as a front for Russian military intelligence.December 1, 2016 - Kushner and Flynn meet with Kislyak at Trump Tower. Kushner later describes the encounter as a quick introduction, pushing back on a Washington Post report that the three talked about establishing backchannel communication with the Russians.January 6, 2017 - The Office of the Director of National Intelligence releases a The Office of the Director of National Intelligence releases a declassified version of its classified report on Russian meddling. According to the report, hackers did not breach voting machines or computers that tallied election results but Russians meddled in other ways. Putin ordered a multifaceted influence campaign that included spreading pro-Trump propaganda online and hacking the DNC and Podesta. Bracing for a possible Clinton win, Russian bloggers were prepared to promote a hashtag #DemocracyRIP on election night. Paid social media users, aka "trolls," shared stories about Clinton controversies to create a cloud of scandal around her campaign.January 10, 2017 - The author of the dossier is a former British spy who was hired by a research firm that had been funded by both political parties to conduct opposition research on Trump. CNN reports that intelligence officials briefed Trump on a dossier that contains allegations about his campaign's ties to Russia as well as salacious rumors about him. The author of the dossier is a former British spy who was hired by a research firm that had been funded by both political parties to conduct opposition research on Trump.March 2, 2017 - Sessions holds a press conference to announce that he is Sessions holds a press conference to announce that he is recusing himself from investigations into the Trump presidential campaign.May 3, 2017 - At a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, Comey says he believes the Russian government is continuing to meddle in US politics.May 17, 2017 - Rosenstein appoints Mueller as special counsel to oversee the election meddling probe.June 8, 2017- Comey testifies before the Senate Intelligence Committee, describing his interactions with Trump dating back to a security briefing with Trump on January 6, 2017. Comey testifies before the Senate Intelligence Committee, describing his interactions with Trump dating back to a security briefing with Trump on January 6, 2017. In a statement that Comey released before the hearing, he says Trump asked him to affirm his loyalty during a private dinner. Comey also describes a private conversation with Trump during which the president told him "I hope you can let this go," referring to the FBI's investigation into Flynn.June 13, 2017 - He declines to answer questions about private conversations he had with Trump regarding the firing of Comey and says he does not remember if he had an informal conversation with Kislyak during the reception at the Mayflower Hotel in April 2016. Sessions says that the claim he colluded with Russians is a "detestable lie" during a hearing before the Senate intelligence committee. He declines to answer questions about private conversations he had with Trump regarding the firing of Comey and says he does not remember if he had an informal conversation with Kislyak during the reception at the Mayflower Hotel in April 2016.July 8-July 11, 2017 - The meeting first came to light when Kushner filed a revised version of his security clearance application in June 2017. He omitted the meeting on previous versions of the form. When news of the meeting first breaks, Trump Jr. issues a statement explaining that the primary topic of discussion was resuming an adoption program for Russian children. Trump Jr. also says that he did not know the name of the individual he was slated to meet. Further New York Times reporting reveals, however, a chain of emails in which Trump Jr. is promised damaging information about Clinton from Russian government sources, a revelation that contradicts his initial statement. Minutes before the New York Times publishes its story about the misleading statement, The New York Times publishes a series of stories detailing the June 2016 meeting between Trump Jr., Kushner, Manafort, Veselnitskaya and other associates. The meeting first came to light when Kushner filed a revised version of his security clearance application in June 2017. He omitted the meeting on previous versions of the form. When news of the meeting first breaks, Trump Jr. issues a statement explaining that the primary topic of discussion was resuming an adoption program for Russian children. Trump Jr. also says that he did not know the name of the individual he was slated to meet. Further New York Times reporting reveals, however, a chain of emails in which Trump Jr. is promised damaging information about Clinton from Russian government sources, a revelation that contradicts his initial statement. Minutes before the New York Times publishes its story about the misleading statement, Trump Jr. tweets images of the email exchange obtained by the newspaper. The tweets are coupled with a statement in which Trump Jr. says the meeting was short and uneventful, as Veselnitskaya failed to deliver opposition research as promised.July 21, 2017 - The story is based on interviews with unnamed current and former officials who discussed intelligence intercepts. A Justice Department spokeswoman says that she will not comment on a story based on anonymous sources and an uncorroborated intelligence intercept. The Washington Post reports that Sessions discussed campaign matters with Kislyak during their meetings, contrary to the attorney general's testimony that the encounters were not related to the presidential race. The story is based on interviews with unnamed current and former officials who discussed intelligence intercepts. A Justice Department spokeswoman says that she will not comment on a story based on anonymous sources and an uncorroborated intelligence intercept.July 24-25, 2017 - He denies reading the email chain from Trump Jr. that set up the June 9, 2016, meeting at Trump Tower. Kushner claims he arrived late to the meeting and he left early, texting his assistant a request to call his cellphone and give him an excuse to walk out. After issuing the statement, Kushner testifies before two congressional committees behind closed doors. Kushner issues an 11-page statement in which he denies colluding with Russia during the presidential campaign and transition. He denies reading the email chain from Trump Jr. that set up the June 9, 2016, meeting at Trump Tower. Kushner claims he arrived late to the meeting and he left early, texting his assistant a request to call his cellphone and give him an excuse to walk out. After issuing the statement, Kushner testifies before two congressional committees behind closed doors.August 1, 2017 - White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders acknowledges that Trump "weighed in" on his son's statement, "as any father would," but denies that the president dictated it.August 3, 2017 - CNN reports that Mueller has issued grand jury subpoenas for documents and testimony related to the June 2016 meeting between Trump campaign officials and a Russian lawyer.September 7, 2017 - During the interview, he says he does not remember details of White House involvement in the crafting of his initial statement in response to the first story about the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting. Trump Jr. answers questions from members of the Senate Judiciary Committee behind closed doors. During the interview, he says he does not remember details of White House involvement in the crafting of his initial statement in response to the first story about the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting.September 18, 2017 - The surveillance started during an FBI investigation into Manafort's work in Ukraine and was discontinued for lack of evidence at some point in 2016. After the FBI began looking into election interference, investigators resumed collecting Manafort's communications and continued through the early days of the Trump administration. Both rounds of surveillance receive approval from the secret court that oversees FISA warrants. After taking office, the president spoke to Manafort repeatedly until lawyers for both men told them to stop, according to CNN. CNN reports that the FBI has previously monitored Manafort's communications under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. The surveillance started during an FBI investigation into Manafort's work in Ukraine and was discontinued for lack of evidence at some point in 2016. After the FBI began looking into election interference, investigators resumed collecting Manafort's communications and continued through the early days of the Trump administration. Both rounds of surveillance receive approval from the secret court that oversees FISA warrants. After taking office, the president spoke to Manafort repeatedly until lawyers for both men told them to stop, according to CNN.September 20, 2017 - that Mueller's team is seeking White House documents divided into 13 categories covering such areas of interest as Comey's firing, an Oval Office meeting between Trump and Russian officials, and the crafting of Trump Jr.'s initial statement pertaining to the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting. The New York Times reports that Mueller's team is seeking White House documents divided into 13 categories covering such areas of interest as Comey's firing, an Oval Office meeting between Trump and Russian officials, and the crafting of Trump Jr.'s initial statement pertaining to the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting.October 2, 2017 - Some lawmakers say they are considering releasing the ads to the public. Facebook delivers Russia-linked ads and data to Congress. Some lawmakers say they are considering releasing the ads to the public.October 18, 2017 - Two partners from Fusion GPS, the opposition research firm that hired Steele to collect information about Trump, Two partners from Fusion GPS, the opposition research firm that hired Steele to collect information about Trump, invoke their Fifth Amendment right not to self-incriminate during a closed-door meeting with the House intelligence committee.October 24, 2017 - The law firm Perkins Coie acknowledges that its clients, the The law firm Perkins Coie acknowledges that its clients, the Hillary Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee, helped finance the research provided in the dossier. It was originally financed by anti-Trump Republicans during the GOP primaries, but Democrats began funding it after Trump became the presumptive nominee in the spring of 2016.December 1, 2017 - to "willfully and knowingly" making "false, fictitious and fraudulent statements" to the FBI regarding discussions with Kislyak. Flynn pleads guilty to "willfully and knowingly" making "false, fictitious and fraudulent statements" to the FBI regarding discussions with Kislyak.January 10, 2018 - Democrats on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee release a minority staff report entitled, Democrats on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee release a minority staff report entitled, "Putin's Asymmetric Assault on Democracy in Russia and Europe: Implications and Europe: Implications for US National Security."January 29, 2018 - , an aggressive move that could feed a GOP push to undercut special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation and ratchets up a battle with the Justice Department. Under an obscure committee rule to make the classified memo public, which has never been invoked in the panel's 40-plus-year history, President Trump has five days following the vote to decide whether to allow the public release to move forward or object to it. The House Intelligence Committee votes along party lines to publicly release a four-page classified memo produced by Nunes alleging FBI abuses in the agency's surveillance , an aggressive move that could feed a GOP push to undercut special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation and ratchets up a battle with the Justice Department. Under an obscure committee rule to make the classified memo public, which has never been invoked in the panel's 40-plus-year history, President Trump has five days following the vote to decide whether to allow the public release to move forward or object to it.February 5, 2018 - rebutting GOP allegations that the FBI abused surveillance laws. President Trump has five days to block or allow its release. The House Intelligence Committee votes unanimously to release a 10-page Democratic memo rebutting GOP allegations that the FBI abused surveillance laws. President Trump has five days to block or allow its release.February 9, 2018 - In a letter to the House Intelligence Committee, McGahn says that In a letter to the House Intelligence Committee, McGahn says that Trump won't release the Democratic memo and has sent it back to the committee for changes.February 16, 2018 - The Department of Justice announces that Mueller has The Department of Justice announces that Mueller has indicted 13 Russian nationals and three Russian entities for allegedly meddling in the 2016 presidential election, charging them with conspiracy to defraud the United States.February 20, 2018 - admitting that he did not reveal his communications with Gates and a business associate in Ukraine during the 2016 presidential campaign. Alex van der Zwaan, a Dutch lawyer, pleads guilty to lying to Mueller's investigators, admitting that he did not reveal his communications with Gates and a business associate in Ukraine during the 2016 presidential campaign.February 23, 2018 - As part of his plea agreement, Gates will have to cooperate with Mueller's team, turning over documents, speaking to investigators and possibly testifying in court as a witness. Gates pleads guilty to lying to the FBI and conspiracy. As part of his plea agreement, Gates will have to cooperate with Mueller's team, turning over documents, speaking to investigators and possibly testifying in court as a witness.February 24, 2018 - The House Intelligence Committee releases a The House Intelligence Committee releases a Democratic memo in redacted form that seeks to undercut Republican claims of FBI surveillance abuses. The committee makes the memo public after the White House signs off following negotiations between the FBI and the committee's top Democrat, Rep. Adam Schiff of California, over what in the document should be redacted. The White House objected to releasing the memo earlier in the month, saying that sensitive material had to be removed first.March 6, 2018 - is cooperating with Mueller's investigators and providing info to a grand jury. Nader, a foreign policy specialist with close ties to the United Arab Emirates, was stopped and questioned by the FBI at a Washington airport after returning from an overseas trip in January. Sources tell CNN that George Nader is cooperating with Mueller's investigators and providing info to a grand jury. Nader, a foreign policy specialist with close ties to the United Arab Emirates, was stopped and questioned by the FBI at a Washington airport after returning from an overseas trip in January.March 12, 2018 - Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee release of a majority report entitled, Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee release of a majority report entitled, "Report on Russian Active Measures." The report concludes there was no collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.April 9, 2018 - He is under investigation for financial crimes including a campaign finance violation related to a pre-election hush money payment made to an adult film actress who allegedly had an affair with Trump. The FBI raids the home, office and hotel room of Trump's personal attorney, Michael Cohen. He is under investigation for financial crimes including a campaign finance violation related to a pre-election hush money payment made to an adult film actress who allegedly had an affair with Trump.May 8, 2018 - about hundreds of thousands of dollars in payments to Cohen. CNN reports that Mueller's investigators questioned a Russian oligarch about hundreds of thousands of dollars in payments to Cohen.May 16, 2018 - from interviews with Trump Jr. and other participants in the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting. The Senate Judiciary Committee publishes nearly 2,000 pages of transcripts from interviews with Trump Jr. and other participants in the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting.May 17, 2018 - Yohai was under investigation for running an alleged real estate Ponzi scheme. The plea deal requires him to cooperate with other federal prosecutors, which may include members of Mueller's team. Sources tell CNN that Manafort's former son-in-law, Jeffrey Yohai, has reached a plea agreement with the US Attorney's office in Los Angeles. Yohai was under investigation for running an alleged real estate Ponzi scheme. The plea deal requires him to cooperate with other federal prosecutors, which may include members of Mueller's team.May 21, 2018 - top officials from the DOJ, FBI and DNI agree to share classified info with lawmakers who have been questioning the use of an informant in the election meddling investigation. Additionally, the DOJ inspector general's office will expand its ongoing probe to include scrutiny of the informant's activities. After a meeting at the White House, top officials from the DOJ, FBI and DNI agree to share classified info with lawmakers who have been questioning the use of an informant in the election meddling investigation. Additionally, the DOJ inspector general's office will expand its ongoing probe to include scrutiny of the informant's activities.June 4, 2018 - The special counsel's office accuses Manafort of contacting potential witnesses and attempting to convince them to lie for him in court. Witness tampering violates his bail terms and could sway a judge to send him to jail pending trial.June 17, 2018 - The Washington Post reports that Stone met with a Russian offering damaging information about Clinton in May 2016. The Russian, who called himself Henry Greenberg, wanted $2 million for the info and Stone declined to pay. Greenberg was also in contact with former Trump campaign communications official Michael Caputo. Stone and Caputo did not tell Congressional investigators about Greenberg when they testified on Capitol Hill.June 28, 2018 - that Trump and Putin will meet in Helsinki on July 16, 2018, to discuss relations between the two countries and "a range of national security issues." The White House announces that Trump and Putin will meet in Helsinki on July 16, 2018, to discuss relations between the two countries and "a range of national security issues."July 3, 2018 - concluding that the intelligence community's January 2017 assessment of election meddling was accurate. According to the summary, the intelligence agencies were correct in their finding that the goal of the election interference was to help Trump rather than simply create confusion. The Senate Intelligence Committee releases a report concluding that the intelligence community's January 2017 assessment of election meddling was accurate. According to the summary, the intelligence agencies were correct in their finding that the goal of the election interference was to help Trump rather than simply create confusion.August 13, 2018 - Strzok is fired by the FBI.August 21, 2018 - The jury returns guilty verdicts on five counts of tax fraud, one charge of hiding foreign bank accounts and two counts of bank fraud. A mistrial is declared for the other ten counts. In New York, Cohen pleads guilty to eight counts including tax fraud, making false statements to obtain a loan and campaign finance violations. Manafort is convicted on eight out of 18 counts after his trial in Virginia. The jury returns guilty verdicts on five counts of tax fraud, one charge of hiding foreign bank accounts and two counts of bank fraud. A mistrial is declared for the other ten counts. In New York, Cohen pleads guilty to eight counts including tax fraud, making false statements to obtain a loan and campaign finance violations. During a court appearance, Cohen says that he made illegal payments "in coordination and at the direction of a candidate for federal office."August 31, 2018 - Lobbyist W. Samuel Patten pleads guilty to acting as an unregistered foreign lobbyis t. He admits to lying to the Senate Intelligence Committee and funneling a Ukrainian oligarch's money to Trump's Presidential Inaugural Committee. This is the first time the Justice Department has publicly charged a person for helping a foreigner secretly funnel money into a Trump political event. Under his deal with prosecutors, Patten is charged only with one criminal count. He faces a maximum of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine for the felony charge.September 6, 2018 - Papadopoulos is sentenced to two weeks in prison for lying to investigators about his contact with individuals tied to Russia during the 2016 campaign. Papadopolous will also have 12 months of supervised release, and must serve 200 hours of community service within about a year and pay a fine.September 17, 2018 - Trump orders the declassification of various documents and text messages related to the Russia investigation.November 7, 2018 - Sessions is fired. Trump appoints Matthew Whitaker as acting attorney general.November 20, 2018 - Trump submits written responses to questions from the special counsel.November 27, 2018 - that one of Manafort's attorneys, Kevin Downing shared information with members of Trump's legal team after the plea agreement was signed in September. Giuliani tells the New York Times that one of Manafort's attorneys, Kevin Downing shared information with members of Trump's legal team after the plea agreement was signed in September.December 7, 2018 - For the first time, prosecutors endorse Cohen's statements that Trump himself directed Cohen to make payments designed to silence women who claimed affairs with Trump. Separately, Manafort is alleged to have lied after agreeing to cooperate with prosecutors, including his "contact with administration officials." Despite the revelations in the filings, Trump tweets after their release, "Totally clears the President. Thank you!" Court filings released by Mueller and federal prosecutors relating to Cohen and Manafort detail the alleged lies both men told both publicly and to the special counsel's investigators. For the first time, prosecutors endorse Cohen's statements that Trump himself directed Cohen to make payments designed to silence women who claimed affairs with Trump. Separately, Manafort is alleged to have lied after agreeing to cooperate with prosecutors, including his "contact with administration officials." Despite the revelations in the filings, Trump tweets after their release, "Totally clears the President. Thank you!"January 11, 2019 - The New York Times reports that shortly after Trump fired Comey, the The New York Times reports that shortly after Trump fired Comey, the FBI opened an investigation into whether Trump "had been working on behalf of Russia against American interests," citing former law enforcement officials and others the paper said were familiar with the probe. A source familiar with the matter corroborated the information in speaking to CNN.February 13, 2019 - After federal Judge Amy Berman Jackson finds that Manafort "intentionally" lied to Mueller's office and "made multiple false statements to the FBI, the special counsel and the grand jury concerning matters that were material to the Russia investigation," After federal Judge Amy Berman Jackson finds that Manafort "intentionally" lied to Mueller's office and "made multiple false statements to the FBI, the special counsel and the grand jury concerning matters that were material to the Russia investigation," she voids his plea dealFebruary 14, 2019 - The Senate confirms William Barr as the new attorney general.February 19, 2019 - Former acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe tells CNN's Anderson Cooper Former acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe tells CNN's Anderson Cooper he feels its possible Trump could be a Russian asset . "I think it's possible," McCabe says. "I think that's why we started our investigation and I'm really anxious to see where Mueller concludes that."February 21, 2019 - after he publishes an Instagram post with what appears to be the crosshairs of a gun drawn behind her head. Jackson restricts Stone's ability to speak publicly about his case after he publishes an Instagram post with what appears to be the crosshairs of a gun drawn behind her head.March 13, 2019 - Manafort is sentenced to an additional 43 months in prison related to conspiracy and obstruction charges.March 22, 2019 - Mueller ends his investigation and delivers his report to Attorney General William Barr. A senior Justice Department official tells CNN that there will be no further indictments.March 24, 2019 - the principal conclusions from Mueller's investigation. According to Barr's four-page letter, the evidence was not sufficient to establish that members Trump's campaign tacitly engaged in a criminal conspiracy with the Russian government to interfere with the election. Barr explains that Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether the president committed a criminal obstruction of justice offense. While Mueller declined to prosecute Trump, the report "does not exonerate" the president, according to Barr. Ultimately, the attorney general and Rosenstein made a determination that the evidence was not sufficient to charge the president with obstruction, Barr writes. Barr releases a letter summarizing the principal conclusions from Mueller's investigation. According to Barr's four-page letter, the evidence was not sufficient to establish that members Trump's campaign tacitly engaged in a criminal conspiracy with the Russian government to interfere with the election. Barr explains that Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether the president committed a criminal obstruction of justice offense. While Mueller declined to prosecute Trump, the report "does not exonerate" the president, according to Barr. Ultimately, the attorney general and Rosenstein made a determination that the evidence was not sufficient to charge the president with obstruction, Barr writes.March 25, 2019 - Mueller writes a letter to Barr in response to the attorney general's summary of the special counsel's report. The letter contains an introduction and executive summaries marked with redactions for public release.March 27, 2019 - Mueller writes a second letter to Barr. In the note, Mueller asks the attorney general to release the special counsel team's redacted summaries of the report's findings. "The summary letter the Department sent to Congress and released to the public late in the afternoon of March 24 did not fully capture the context, nature, and substance of this Office's work and conclusions," Mueller writes in the letter, which is later released to the public.March 31, 2019 - Barr sends another letter to Congress, declaring that his March 24 letter was being inaccurately characterized by the media as a "summary" of Mueller's report. "My letter was not, and did not purport to be, an exhaustive recounting of the Special Counsel's investigation or report," Barr writes.April 10, 2019 - During a congressional hearing, Barr says he plans to look into the origins of the FBI's counterintelligence probe, declaring he suspects that spying on the campaign had occurred. Barr does not provide evidence to support the allegation. A source familiar with Barr's thinking later tells CNN the attorney general used the word "spy" as a general term for intelligence gathering.April 18, 2019 - A redacted version of Mueller's report is released. The first part of the 448-page document details the evidence gathered by Mueller's team on potential conspiracy crimes and explains their decisions not to charge individuals associated with the campaign. The second part of the report outlines ten episodes involving possible obstruction of justice by the president. According to the report, Mueller's decision not to charge Trump was rooted in Justice Department guidelines prohibiting the indictment of a sitting president. Mueller writes that he would have cleared Trump if the evidence warranted exoneration."If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the President clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state," Mueller writes. "Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment."May 1, 2019 - The attorney general explains his reasoning for declining to pursue an obstruction of justice charge against Trump. "I didn't exonerate," Barr says. "I said that we did not believe that there was sufficient evidence to establish an obstruction offense which is the job of the Justice Department." Barr is questioned about his handling of the report during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing. The attorney general explains his reasoning for declining to pursue an obstruction of justice charge against Trump. "I didn't exonerate," Barr says. "I said that we did not believe that there was sufficient evidence to establish an obstruction offense which is the job of the Justice Department."May 2, 2019 - Barr declines to participate in a previously scheduled House Judiciary Committee hearing on the Mueller report. The attorney general skips the appearance amid a dispute with Democrats over their decision to have staff attorneys question him rather than members of Congress.May 13, 2019 - Barr taps US Attorney John Durham of Connecticut to Barr taps US Attorney John Durham of Connecticut to investigate the beginnings of the Russian meddling investigation for possible misconduct by FBI officials and intelligence officers.May 29, 2019 - declaring that charging the president with a criminal offense was not a Mueller delivers a public statement, declaring that charging the president with a criminal offense was not a constitutional option. He says the special counsel's office is closing and he is returning to private life. Mueller says he hopes his public statement and his written report are sufficient. "It's important the office's written work speaks for itself," Mueller says. "The report is my testimony."July 24, 2019 - Mueller testifies before the House Judiciary and Intelligence committees, Mueller testifies before the House Judiciary and Intelligence committees, answering questions about the content of his report. Mueller says he did not make a decision on whether the indict Trump because of Justice Department guidance that bars prosecutors from indicting a sitting president. Mueller defends not subpoenaing the President because of the prolonged process to fight over it. But asked if anyone tried to stop it, Mueller makes clear they could have subpoenaed if they wanted to.July 25, 2019 - Trump speaks with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky via phone. Trump speaks with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky via phone. He asks Zelensky to work with Giuliani and Barr on an investigation into the roots of the Russian meddling probe and the possibility that Ukraine may have played a role. Trump also asks Zelensky to look into former Vice President Joe Biden, whose son served on the board of a Ukrainian energy company called Burisma Holdings. Giuliani has suggested that Biden, Trump's possible opponent in the 2020 election, tried to protect his son by pressing Ukraine to fire a prosecutor who was investigating Burisma. Undermining Giuliani's claim is a report from Bloomberg that says the Burisma investigation was "dormant" when Biden pressured Ukraine to oust the prosecutor.August 2, 2019 - According to newly released figures from the Justice Department, According to newly released figures from the Justice Department, the Mueller investigation cost a total of almost $32 million through the course of the probe.August 12, 2019 - A whistleblower files a complaint pertaining to Trump's conduct on the July 25 call with Zelensky and the White House's alleged effort to conceal the transcript.September 17, 2019 - Lewandowski testifies before the House Judiciary Committee. He says that he may have made inaccurate statements to the media about Trump's request to him to deliver a message to Sessions about reversing his recusal from the Russia investigation. "I have no obligation to be honest with the media," Lewandowski says, stressing that he has always spoken truthfully under oath.October 8, 2019 - The Senate Intelligence Committee releases the The Senate Intelligence Committee releases the second volume of its report on election interference. The report is critical of the FBI for using a contractor to monitor foreign influence operations. "The apparently outsourced nature of this work is troubling; it suggests FBI either lacked resources or viewed work in this vein as not warranting more institutionalized consideration."