If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Some parts of fire-ravaged Southern California could get a little bit of good news: The area is predicted to have its first significant rainfall since May . (Unfortunately, with rain may come flash flood warnings. They just can't catch a break.)Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Impeachment investigationWe're in the thick of some of the most important -- and compelling -- impeachment hearings to date. Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman, the National Security Council's Ukraine expert, offered testimony yesterday about the pivotal July 25 call, saying he knew immediately that it was inappropriate . He also said President Trump and his administration pushed "false narratives" about Ukraine, namely that the country helped Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election and did not adequately look into allegations regarding the Biden family. For his troubles, Vindman, an immigrant from the former USSR and a Purple Heart recipient, was blasted by the official White House Twitter account . US Special Envoy to Ukraine Kurt Volker also took the stand. Republicans were hoping Volker's testimony would support Trump's interpretation of events, but their ace in the hole ended up revising key points of his prior closed-door testimony, including when and how aid to Ukraine was mentioned in some conversations.Today, the House Intelligence Committee will hear from the US ambassador to the EU, Gordon Sondland. There's a lot of pressure on Sondland : Some Democrats have accused him of lying in his closed-door testimony, and Republicans worry he may turn on Trump once he's forced to speak publicly.2. SyriaPredictions of an ISIS resurgence in war-torn Syria have come to fruition. According to a new Pentagon report, Turkish operations targeting America's Kurdish partners in northern Syria and the US retreat in the area have given ISIS an opening to rebuild . The Pentagon's Defense Intelligence Agency also said the diminished attention on counterterrorism in the area has given the terrorist group a greater ability to launch attacks abroad. The much-touted ceasefire between Turkey and Syria would theoretically help the situation, but Turkish-backed groups have continued to launch attacks. Ironically, a recent report by the nonpartisan Institute for Economics & Peace found a "dramatic decline" in ISIS activity in 2018.JUST WATCHED CNN Exclusive: Iraqi spy chief warns of ISIS resurgence Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN Exclusive: Iraqi spy chief warns of ISIS resurgence 03:063. UK electionThe first debate in the UK general election was, well, inconclusive, to say the least. Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn faced questions about Brexit, the future of the union and a path forward in a fractured political atmosphere. Corbyn seemed to shirk a lot of Brexit issues, glossing over his party's plan to negotiate a new deal with the EU in favor of criticizing the country's current Conservative rule. Johnson tried to paint Corbyn as a threat to the unity of the four nations of the UK. However, many believe Johnson essentially threw Northern Ireland under the bus during recent Brexit dealings, so it's a bit of a pot-and-kettle situation.JUST WATCHED Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn go head-to-head at debate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn go head-to-head at debate 03:034. BoliviaIt has been a month since deadly protests ignited in Bolivia following the country's presidential election, and the death toll continues to rise. Three people were killed yesterday when Bolivian security services tried to clear a path for gas tanks to leave a plant near the administrative center of La Paz. That brings the number of people killed in the political unrest to 23. The protests began after reports of irregularities in the election. President Evo Morales eventually resigned and fled to Mexico. But Morales' supporters aren't backing down. They took to the streets after his ousting, saying he was the victim of a coup. An interim government has since taken power but hasn't been able to restore peace.JUST WATCHED Evo Morales on his exile: I regret I didn't finish term Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Evo Morales on his exile: I regret I didn't finish term 01:215. Jeffrey EpsteinTwo prison guards are facing federal charges in connection with their actions the night Jeffrey Epstein died in prison three months ago. The guards allegedly failed to complete the required counts of prisoners on their watch, including Epstein. Instead, they napped and browsed the internet. When they realized they hadn't completed their duties, they allegedly falsified forms saying they did. A federal grand jury just charged them with conspiracy and filing false records. The indictment also serves another purpose as conspiracy theories still swirl around the convicted sex offender's death: It provides a detailed timeline leading up to the discovery of Epstein's body.JUST WATCHED Prince Andrew interview sparks near-universal condemnation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Prince Andrew interview sparks near-universal condemnation 02:57BREAKFAST BROWSEA camel, a cow and a donkey were found lost on a Kansas roadTom Hanks just found out he's related to Mr. RogersJUST WATCHED Tom Hanks finds out he is related to Mister Rogers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tom Hanks finds out he is related to Mister Rogers 01:05Koala-sniffing dogs are helping to save animals in Australia's bushfiresHere's what to do if your Disney+ account was hackedTODAY'S QUOTE"We must teach the defendant love."Ilhan Omar, who Rep., who asked a judge to show compassion in the sentencing of a man who threatened to kill herJUST WATCHED Fact check: Trump's tweets on Ilhan Omar Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fact check: Trump's tweets on Ilhan Omar 03:05TODAY'S NUMBER3%The percentage by which the global economy is expected to shrink by 2050 as a result of climate change . According to a new report, North American economies are the most resilient against climate change, while those in the developing world are the least resilient.JUST WATCHED This energy startup has made a solar breakthrough Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This energy startup has made a solar breakthrough 02:48HAPPENING LATER2020 Dems take the stageTen Democratic hopefuls line up again tonight for the party's fifth primary debate. It's hosted by The Washington Post and MSNBC and begins at 9 ET.JUST WATCHED Jeanne Moos: It was a handsy presidential debate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jeanne Moos: It was a handsy presidential debate 01:53TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Southern California getting its first substantial rainfall since May Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Southern California getting its first substantial rainfall since May 01:28AND FINALLYLift every voice