If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Get '5 things' in your inboxEven a little running cuts the risk of premature death , a new study shows. So, toss those sneaks into your bag before you head out this morning. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Paris climate dealThe United States will not be a part of the international charge to solve the climate crisis since the Trump team took the first steps to formally withdraw from the Paris climate accord. It's the latest push from an administration that's made rolling back environmental regulations a top priority. President Trump announced in 2017 that the US would ditch the Paris deal, which he's argued would punish American workers and enrich foreign countries . Meantime, climate change will not be on the agenda at next year's G7 summit in the US. The full UN process of exiting the Paris deal can't be completed until a year from yesterday, which happens to be one day after the 2020 presidential election2. OklahomaIt's the largest mass commutation in US history. At least 462 nonviolent inmates walked out of prison yesterday in Oklahoma in a reform effort embraced by Republicans and Democrats. The move aimed to reduce overcrowding while helping low-level offenders become self-sufficient rather than restart a cycle that could land them back behind bars. Year after year, the United States has the highest incarceration rate in the world . Oklahoma has tried to buck the trend by turning low-level felonies (like possession of a small amount of drugs) into misdemeanors. It also held "transition fairs" at 28 facilities to help connect people with public services they may need after leaving prison.3. Impeachment inquiryJUST WATCHED Key lines from latest impeachment inquiry transcripts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Key lines from latest impeachment inquiry transcripts 02:274. Greece5. New DelhiJUST WATCHED New Delhi air pollution reaches "unbearable" levels Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New Delhi air pollution reaches "unbearable" levels 01:14THIS JUST INBaghdadi's sister capturedThe 65-year-old sister of slain ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi is being interrogated in the northern Syrian town of Azaz, a senior Turkish official told CNN.BREAKFAST BROWSELena Dunham reveals she has Ehlers-Danlos syndromeThe creator and star of "Girls" posted the announcement after a paparazzi photo showed her walking with a caneMicrosoft tried a 4-day workweek -- with a 5-day paycheck -- in JapanAnd productivity jumped 40% . Now, that's some math we can get behind.American Girl's holiday doll costs $5,000She's covered in Swarovski crystals . And you thought the regular versions were pricey.Some things are more precious than goldOlympic champion gymnast Shawn Johnson just announced the birth of her first babyJUST WATCHED Olympian Shawn Johnson shares big pregnancy news Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Olympian Shawn Johnson shares big pregnancy news 02:071-ton Wizard Rock that vanished from an Arizona national forest is backTODAY'S QUOTE"He feels like he is owed an apology from Hollywood."One of Harvey Weinstein's friends, telling CNN that the former producer , telling CNN that the former producer isn't sorry about his alleged misconduct . His trial on predatory sexual assault, a criminal sexual act, first-degree rape and third-degree rape is set to begin January 6.TODAY'S NUMBER2The number of recent major court rulings against President Trump's effort to keep his tax returns from a grand jury. Both decisions are likely to be tested at the Supreme Court in upcoming months.HAPPENING LATERHeading to the pollsIt's Election Day in Kentucky and Mississippi, where voters are choosing governors, and in Virginia, where Democrats are fighting to flip control of both chambers of the legislature. The outcomes could shed light on how the country is leaning heading into the presidential electionJUST WATCHED Three interesting election races to watch on Tuesday Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Three interesting election races to watch on Tuesday 01:57TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Multiple Systems bring Cold Air to the Northeastern US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Multiple Systems bring Cold Air to the Northeastern US 01:40AND FINALLYLike a bowl full of ...