If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) The nominations for this year's Grammy Awards were announced yesterday. Debate, complain or gloat accordingly.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Impeachment investigationIt seems like the words "dramatic" and "bombshell" are thrown around a lot in reference to the impeachment inquiry hearings, but if there were ever a time to use them, it would be to describe yesterday's testimony from US Ambassador to the European Union Gordon Sondland . Right out of the gate, Sondland confirmed that, yes, a "quid pro quo" scheme existed and President Trump directed it. He also said "everyone was in the loop" about what was going on with Ukraine foreign policy, implicating top officials including Vice President Mike Pence. Sondland's testimony punched several gaping holes in the Trump administration's defense of the Ukraine saga. For one, Sondland said he got the impression Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky didn't actually have to conduct the investigations; he just had to announce them. If he's correct, that lends credence to the theory that the probes were simply a political maneuver. Sondland's testimony was especially important for Democrats because he is one of the main witnesses to have had direct contact with the President during the time of the Ukraine dealings.2. Democratic debateJUST WATCHED Buttigieg and Gabbard spar over experience, foreign policy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Buttigieg and Gabbard spar over experience, foreign policy 02:123. IsraelIsrael may be heading for its third presidential election in 12 months. When Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu tried and failed to form a government after September's election, his opponent, former IDF Chief of Staff Benny Gantz, got the opportunity to take power and form one himself. But Gantz announced yesterday that his Blue and White party hasn't been able to gather the necessary coalition in four solid weeks of negotiations . Now, Israel is in unprecedented political territory. For the next 21 days, any member of the Israeli legislature, known as the Knesset, could potentially become Prime Minister, if they gather a political majority. If that fails, it would be back to the polls for an election-weary public.JUST WATCHED Netanyahu loses grip on Israeli politics after a decade Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Netanyahu loses grip on Israeli politics after a decade 01:114. United Auto WorkersThere is serious trouble brewing with the United Auto Workers, one of the most powerful unions in the country. UAW's executive board took steps to remove its president , Gary Jones, and expel him from the union following allegations of bribery and misuse of union funds. So far, 10 people have pleaded guilty to federal criminal charges surrounding the scandal. Some of those charges involve bribes paid to union officials by executives at Fiat Chrysler. And now, fellow automaker GM is suing Fiat Chrysler , saying the latter engaged in corrupt bargaining with UAW. Fiat Chrysler called the charges in the suit "meritless" and will fight them in court. If you'll recall, the UAW recently waged a six-week strike at GM that cost the automaker an estimated $2.9 billion.JUST WATCHED Deal to end GM strike leaves Ohio plant behind Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Deal to end GM strike leaves Ohio plant behind 03:555. ChinaJUST WATCHED Protesters attempt to flee Hong Kong university Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Protesters attempt to flee Hong Kong university 03:11BREAKFAST BROWSEA new 'Sesame Street' show in Arabic aims to help refugee childrenAmazon wants to ship you anything in 30 minutesNew 'smart skin' may let you reach out and virtually touch anyoneBurger King is running out of zesty sauce because of a global horseradish shortageIt feels like there are probably more dire consequences to an agricultural shortage, but yes, zesty sauce is important, tooUber could test a new safety feature that lets riders and drivers record ridesTODAY'S QUOTE"It has become clear to me over the last few days that the circumstances relating to my former association with Jeffrey Epstein has become a major disruption to my family's work and the valuable work going on in the many organizations and charities that I am proud to support."Prince Andrew, announcing yesterday that he will , announcing yesterday that he will step back from public duties after being roundly criticized for comments about his relationship with the late convicted sex abuserJUST WATCHED Prince Andrew step backs from public duties Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Prince Andrew step backs from public duties 02:11TODAY'S NUMBER$1.5 billionThat's how much White Claw projects in sales this year . White Claw is that trendy brand of hard seltzer that took the country by storm this summer. It's sort of like an alcoholic La Croix (another fizzy beverage that had its 15 minutes of fame).JUST WATCHED America almost ran out of White Claw. Here's how companies handle shortages Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH America almost ran out of White Claw. Here's how companies handle shortages 00:59TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Several Different Systems impacting Western and Central US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Several Different Systems impacting Western and Central US 01:50AND FINALLYEverybody come look at this black chicken!