(CNN) Here's a look at the life of Donald Trump , the 45th president of the United States.PersonalBirth date: June 14, 1946Birth place: New York, New YorkBirth name: Donald John TrumpFather: Fred Trump, real estate developerMother: Mary (Macleod) TrumpChildren: with Melania Trump: Barron, March 20, 2006; with Marla Maples: Tiffany, October 13, 1993; with Ivana Trump: Eric, 1984; Ivanka, October 30, 1981; Donald Jr., December 31, 1977Education: Attended Fordham University; University of Pennsylvania, Wharton School of Finance, B.S. in Economics, 1968Photos: Donald Trump's rise Photos: Donald Trump's rise President-elect Donald Trump has been in the spotlight for years. From developing real estate and producing and starring in TV shows, he became a celebrity long before winning the White House. Hide Caption 1 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump at age 4. He was born in 1946 to Fred and Mary Trump in New York City. His father was a real estate developer. Hide Caption 2 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump, left, in a family photo. He was the second-youngest of five children. Hide Caption 3 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump, center, stands at attention during his senior year at the New York Military Academy in 1964. Hide Caption 4 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump, center, wears a baseball uniform at the New York Military Academy in 1964. After he graduated from the boarding school, he went to college. He started at Fordham University before transferring and later graduating from the Wharton School, the University of Pennsylvania's business school. Hide Caption 5 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump stands with Alfred Eisenpreis, New York's economic development administrator, in 1976 while they look at a sketch of a new 1,400-room renovation project of the Commodore Hotel. After graduating college in 1968, Trump worked with his father on developments in Queens and Brooklyn before purchasing or building multiple properties in New York and Atlantic City, New Jersey. Those properties included Trump Tower in New York and Trump Plaza and multiple casinos in Atlantic City. Hide Caption 6 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump attends an event to mark the start of construction of the New York Convention Center in 1979. Hide Caption 7 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump wears a hard hat at the Trump Tower construction site in New York in 1980. Hide Caption 8 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump was married to Ivana Zelnicek Trump from 1977 to 1990, when they divorced. They had three children together: Donald Jr., Ivanka and Eric. Hide Caption 9 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise The Trump family, circa 1986. Hide Caption 10 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump uses his personal helicopter to get around New York in 1987. Hide Caption 11 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump stands in the atrium of the Trump Tower. Hide Caption 12 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump attends the opening of his new Atlantic City casino, the Taj Mahal, in 1989. Hide Caption 13 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump signs his second book, "Trump: Surviving at the Top," in 1990. Trump has published at least 16 other books, including "The Art of the Deal" and "The America We Deserve." Hide Caption 14 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump and singer Michael Jackson pose for a photo before traveling to visit Ryan White, a young child with AIDS, in 1990. Hide Caption 15 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump dips his second wife, Marla Maples, after the couple married in a private ceremony in New York in December 1993. The couple divorced in 1999 and had one daughter together, Tiffany. Hide Caption 16 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump putts a golf ball in his New York office in 1998. Hide Caption 17 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise An advertisement for the television show "The Apprentice" hangs at Trump Tower in 2004. The show launched in January of that year. In January 2008, the show returned as "Celebrity Apprentice." Hide Caption 18 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise A 12-inch talking Trump doll is on display at a toy store in New York in September 2004. Hide Caption 19 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump attends a news conference in 2005 that announced the establishment of Trump University. From 2005 until it closed in 2010, Trump University had about 10,000 people sign up for a program that promised success in real estate. Three separate lawsuits -- two class-action suits filed in California and one filed by New York's attorney general -- argued that the program was mired in fraud and deception. Trump's camp rejected the suits' claims as "baseless." And Trump has charged that the New York case against him is politically motivated. Hide Caption 20 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump attends the U.S. Open tennis tournament with his third wife, Melania Knauss-Trump, and their son, Barron, in 2006. Trump and Knauss married in 2005. Hide Caption 21 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump wrestles with "Stone Cold" Steve Austin at WrestleMania in 2007. Trump has close ties with the WWE and its CEO, Vince McMahon. Hide Caption 22 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise For "The Apprentice," Trump was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in January 2007. Hide Caption 23 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump appears on the set of "The Celebrity Apprentice" with two of his children -- Donald Jr. and Ivanka -- in 2009. Hide Caption 24 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump poses with Miss Universe contestants in 2011. Trump had been executive producer of the Miss Universe, Miss USA and Miss Teen USA pageants since 1996. Hide Caption 25 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise In 2012, Trump announces his endorsement of Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney. Hide Caption 26 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump speaks in Sarasota, Florida, after accepting the Statesman of the Year Award at the Sarasota GOP dinner in August 2012. It was shortly before the Republican National Convention in nearby Tampa. Hide Caption 27 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump appears on stage with singer Nick Jonas and television personality Giuliana Rancic during the 2013 Miss USA pageant. Hide Caption 28 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise In June 2015, during a speech from Trump Tower, Trump announced that he was running for President. He said he would give up "The Apprentice" to run. Hide Caption 29 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump -- flanked by U.S. Sens. Marco Rubio, left, and Ted Cruz -- speaks during a CNN debate in Miami on March 10. Trump dominated the GOP primaries and emerged as the presumptive nominee in May. Hide Caption 30 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise The Trump family poses for a photo in New York in April. Hide Caption 31 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump speaks during a campaign event in Evansville, Indiana, on April 28. After Trump won the Indiana primary, his last two competitors dropped out of the GOP race. Hide Caption 32 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump delivers a speech at the Republican National Convention in July, accepting the party's nomination for President. "I have had a truly great life in business," he said. "But now, my sole and exclusive mission is to go to work for our country -- to go to work for you. It's time to deliver a victory for the American people." Hide Caption 33 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump faces Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in the first presidential debate, which took place in Hempstead, New York, in September. Hide Caption 34 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump apologizes in a video, posted to his Twitter account in October, for vulgar and sexually aggressive remarks he made a decade ago regarding women. "I said it, I was wrong and I apologize," Trump said, referring to lewd comments he made during a previously unaired taping of "Access Hollywood." Multiple Republican leaders rescinded their endorsements of Trump after the footage was released. Hide Caption 35 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump walks on stage with his family after he was declared the election winner on November 9. "Ours was not a campaign, but rather, an incredible and great movement," he told his supporters in New York. Hide Caption 36 of 37 Photos: Donald Trump's rise Trump is joined by his family as he is sworn in as President on January 20. Hide Caption 37 of 37Other FactsAs Trump evolved from real estate developer to reality television star, he turned his name into a brand. Licensed Trump products have included board games, steaks, cologne, vodka, furniture and menswear.He has portrayed himself in cameo appearances in movies and on television, including "Zoolander," "Sex and the City" and "Home Alone 2: Lost in New York."Timeline1970s - After college, works with his father on apartment complexes in Queens and Brooklyn.1973 - Trump and his father are named in a Justice Department lawsuit alleging Trump property managers violated the Fair Housing Act by turning away potential African-American tenants. The Trumps deny the company discriminates and file a $100 million countersuit, which is later dismissed. The case is settled in 1975, and the Trumps agree to provide weekly lists of vacancies to black community organizations.1983-1990 - He builds/purchases multiple properties in New York City, including He builds/purchases multiple properties in New York City, including Trump Tower and the Plaza Hotel , and also opens casinos in Atlantic City, New Jersey, including the Trump Taj Mahal and the Trump Plaza . Trump buys the New Jersey Generals football team, part of the United States Football League, which folds after three seasons.1987 - Trump's first book, "Trump: The Art of the Deal," is published and becomes a bestseller. The Donald J. Trump Foundation is established in order to donate a portion of profits from book sales to charities.1991 - The Trump Taj Mahal files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.1992 - The Trump Plaza and the Trump Castle casinos file for bankruptcy.1996 - Buys out and becomes executive producer of the Miss Universe, Miss USA and Miss Teen USA pageants.February 14, 2000 - Says that he is abandoning his bid for the presidency, blaming discord within the Reform Party.January 2004 - "The Apprentice," a reality show featuring aspiring entrepreneurs competing for Trump's approval, premieres on NBC.November 21, 2004 - Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts Inc. files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.2005 - Establishes Trump University, which offers seminars in real estate investment.February 13, 2009 - Announces his resignation from his position as chairman of Trump Entertainment Resorts. Days later, the company files for bankruptcy protection.March 17, 2011 - During an interview on ABC's "Good Morning America," Trump During an interview on ABC's "Good Morning America," Trump questions whether President Barack Obama was born in the United States.June 16, 2015 - Announces that he is running for president during a speech at Trump Tower. He pledges to implement policies that will boost the economy and says he will get tough on immigration. "When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best...They're sending people who have lots of problems," Trump says. "They're bringing drugs, they're bringing crime, they're rapists, and some, I assume, are good people."July 22, 2015 - Trump's financial disclosure report is made public by the Federal Election Commission.August 6, 2015 - During During the first 2016 Republican debate , Trump is questioned about a third party candidacy, his attitude towards women and his history of donating money to Democratic politicians. He tells moderator Megyn Kelly of Fox News he feels he is being mistreated.August 7, 2015 - The controversy continues, as Trump tells CNN's Don Lemon that Kelly was singling him out for attack, "You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever."May 26, 2016 - Secures enough delegates to clinch the Republican Party nomination.July 19, 2016 - Becomes the Republican Party nominee for president.September 13, 2016 - During an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman says his office is During an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman says his office is investigating Trump's charitable foundation "to make sure it's complying with the laws governing charities in New York."October 7, 2016 - In footage obtained by The Washington Post, Trump is heard off-camera discussing women in vulgar terms during the taping of a segment for "Access Hollywood." In a taped response, Trump declares, "I said it, I was wrong and I apologize." Unaired footage from 2005 surfaces of Trump talking about trying to have sex with a married woman and being able to grope women. In footage obtained by The Washington Post, Trump is heard off-camera discussing women in vulgar terms during the taping of a segment for "Access Hollywood." In a taped response, Trump declares, "I said it, I was wrong and I apologize."October 9, 2016 - During the second presidential debate, CNN's Cooper asks Trump about his descriptions of groping and kissing women without their consent in the "Access Hollywood" footage. Trump denies that he has ever engaged in such behavior and declares the comments were "locker room talk." During the second presidential debate, CNN's Cooper asks Trump about his descriptions of groping and kissing women without their consent in the "Access Hollywood" footage. Trump denies that he has ever engaged in such behavior and declares the comments were "locker room talk." After the debate, 11 women step forward to claim that they were sexually harassed or sexually assaulted by the real estate developer. Trump says the stories aren't true.November 18, 2016 - Trump agrees to pay $25 million to settle three lawsuits against Trump University . The deal keeps the President-elect from having to testify in a trial in San Diego that was set to begin November 28. The settlement ends a suit brought by Schneiderman, as well as two class action suits in California. About 6,000 former students are covered by the settlement.January 10, 2017 - that contains allegations about his campaign's ties to Russia and unverified claims about his personal life. The author of the dossier is a former British spy who was hired by a research firm that had been funded by both political parties to conduct opposition research on Trump. CNN reports that intelligence officials briefed Trump on a dossier that contains allegations about his campaign's ties to Russia and unverified claims about his personal life. The author of the dossier is a former British spy who was hired by a research firm that had been funded by both political parties to conduct opposition research on Trump.May 2017 - Shortly after Trump fired Comey, the Shortly after Trump fired Comey, the FBI opens an investigation into whether Trump "had been working on behalf of Russia against American interests," citing former law enforcement officials and others the paper said were familiar with the probe.July 7, 2017 - Meets Meets Russian President Vladimir Putin in person for the first time, on the sidelines of the G20 meeting in Hamburg, Germany.August 8, 2017 - Trump warns that Pyongyang will "face fire and fury like the world has never seen." Soon after Trump's comments, In response to nuclear threats from North Korea, Trump warns that Pyongyang will "face fire and fury like the world has never seen." Soon after Trump's comments, North Korea issues a statement saying it is "examining the operational plan" to strike areas around the US territory of Guam.August 15, 2017 - After a violent clash between neo-Nazi activists and counterprotesters leaves one dead in Charlottesville, Virginia, After a violent clash between neo-Nazi activists and counterprotesters leaves one dead in Charlottesville, Virginia, Trump holds an impromptu press conference in the lobby of Trump Tower and declares that there were "fine people" on both sides.August 25, 2017 - who was convicted of criminal contempt for disregarding a court order in a racial-profiling case. Trump did not consult with lawyers at the Justice Department before announcing his decision. Trump's first pardon is granted to former Arizona sheriff Joe Arpaio, who was convicted of criminal contempt for disregarding a court order in a racial-profiling case. Trump did not consult with lawyers at the Justice Department before announcing his decision.September 5, 2017 - introduced by Obama to protect nearly 800,000 undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children. Trump calls on Congress to introduce legislation that will prevent DACA recipients from being deported. Multiple lawsuits are filed opposing the policy in federal courts and The Trump administration announces that it is ending the DACA program, introduced by Obama to protect nearly 800,000 undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children. Trump calls on Congress to introduce legislation that will prevent DACA recipients from being deported. Multiple lawsuits are filed opposing the policy in federal courts and judges delay the end of the program, asking the government to submit filings justifying the cancellation of DACA.January 12, 2018 - The Wall Street Journal reports that Trump The Wall Street Journal reports that Trump had an alleged affair with a porn star named Stephanie Clifford, aka Stormy Daniels. The newspaper states that Trump's personal attorney, Michael Cohen, arranged a $130,000 payment for a nondisclosure agreement weeks before Election Day in 2016. Cohen denies that Trump had a relationship with Clifford.April 13, 2018 - Trump authorizes joint military strikes in Syria with the UK and France after reports the government used chemical weapons on civilians in Douma.May 7, 2018 - Sessions says that individuals who violate immigration law will be criminally prosecuted and warns that parents could be separated from children. The Trump administration announces a "zero tolerance" policy for illegal border crossings. Sessions says that individuals who violate immigration law will be criminally prosecuted and warns that parents could be separated from children.November 20, 2018 - in the wake of the murder of Washington Post journalist Releases a statement backing Saudi Arabia in the wake of the murder of Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi, a Virginia resident, killed in October at a Saudi consulate in Turkey. Khashoggi was a frequent critic of the Saudi regime. The Saudis initially denied any knowledge of his death, but then later said a group of rogue operators were responsible for his killing. US officials have speculated that such a mission, including the 15 men sent from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to murder him, could not have been carried out without the authorization of Saudi leader Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. In the statement, Trump writes, "Our intelligence agencies continue to assess all information, but it could very well be that the Crown Prince had knowledge of this tragic event, maybe he did and maybe he didn't!"December 19, 2018 - that the US has defeated Trump declares that the US has defeated ISIS and orders a "full" and "rapid" withdrawal of US military from Syria.December 20, 2018 - Secretary of Defense James Mattis resigns in the wake of the Syria announcement, submitting a resignation letter that says "Because you have the right to have a Secretary of Defense whose views are better aligned with yours on these and other subjects, I believe it is right for me to step down from my position."December 22, 2018 - The The longest partial government shutdown in US history begins after Trump demands lawmakers allocate $5.7 billion in funding for a border wall before agreeing to sign a federal funding package.January 16, 2019 - After nearly two years of Trump administration officials denying that anyone involved in his campaign colluded with the Russians to help his candidacy, Trump lawyer and former New York City mayor, After nearly two years of Trump administration officials denying that anyone involved in his campaign colluded with the Russians to help his candidacy, Trump lawyer and former New York City mayor, Rudy Giuliani , says "I never said there was no collusion between the campaign, or people in the campaign. I said the President of the United States. There is not a single bit of evidence the President of the United States committed the only crime you can commit here, conspiring with the Russians to hack the DNC."January 25, 2019 - providing three weeks of stopgap funding while lawmakers work on a border security compromise. The bill does not include any wall funding. The government shutdown ends when Trump signs a short-term spending measure, providing three weeks of stopgap funding while lawmakers work on a border security compromise. The bill does not include any wall funding.March 22, 2019 - Mueller Mueller ends his investigation and delivers his report to Attorney General William Barr. A senior Justice Department official tells CNN that there will be no further indictments.March 24, 2019 - Barr releases a letter Barr releases a letter summarizing the principal conclusions from Mueller's investigation. According to Barr's four-page letter, the evidence was not sufficient to establish that members Trump's campaign tacitly engaged in a criminal conspiracy with the Russian government to interfere with the election.April 18, 2019 - A redacted version of the A redacted version of the Mueller report is released. The first part of the 448-page document details the evidence gathered by Mueller's team on potential conspiracy crimes and explains their decisions not to charge individuals associated with the campaign. The second part of the report outlines ten episodes involving possible obstruction of justice by the president. According to the report, Mueller's decision not to charge Trump was rooted in Justice Department guidelines prohibiting the indictment of a sitting president. Mueller writes that he would have cleared Trump if the evidence warranted exoneration."If we had confidence after a thorough investigation of the facts that the President clearly did not commit obstruction of justice, we would so state," Mueller writes. "Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgment."May 1, 2019 - The New York Times publishes a report that details how Giuliani, in his role as Trump's personal attorney, is investigating allegations related to The New York Times publishes a report that details how Giuliani, in his role as Trump's personal attorney, is investigating allegations related to former Vice President Joe Biden, a potential Trump opponent in the 2020 presidential race. Biden's son, Hunter Biden served on the board of a Ukrainian energy company called Burisma Holdings. In 2016, the elder Biden pressured Ukraine to oust a prosecutor who had investigated Burisma for corruption. Giuliani suggests that Biden's move was motivated by a desire to protect his son from criminal charges. Giuliani's claims are undermined after Bloomberg reports that the Burisma investigation was "dormant" when Biden pressed the prosecutor to resign.May 30, 2019 - if the country does not step up its immigration enforcement actions, saying in a White House statement that a round of tariffs would begin on June 10 at 5% "on all goods imported from Mexico." The statement warned further that if Mexico does not act as Trump demands, tariffs would continue to increase up to a permanent level of 25% by October. Trump threatens to impose new tariffs on Mexico if the country does not step up its immigration enforcement actions, saying in a White House statement that a round of tariffs would begin on June 10 at 5% "on all goods imported from Mexico." The statement warned further that if Mexico does not act as Trump demands, tariffs would continue to increase up to a permanent level of 25% by October.June 12, 2019 - Trump says he may be Trump says he may be willing to accept information about political rivals from a foreign government during an interview on ABC News, declaring that he's willing to listen and wouldn't necessarily call the FBI.June 18, 2019 - Trump holds a rally in Orlando to Trump holds a rally in Orlando to publicize the formal launch of his reelection campaign.June 21, 2019 - In a series of tweets, In a series of tweets, Trump explains that he canceled a retaliatory attack on Iran in response to an American drone getting shot down. The president writes that he called off the strike after being told that 150 people could have been killed, reasoning that the response was not proportional since the downed American aircraft was unmanned.June 28, 2019 - at the G20 summit in Osaka, During a breakfast meeting at the G20 summit in Osaka, Japan, Trump and Saudi Crown Prince Mohamed bin Salman reportedly discuss tensions with Iran, trade and human rights.June 30, 2019 - He takes 20 steps beyond the border and shakes hands with Kim, the leader of the hermit kingdom. Although the American and North Korean governments tout the historic nature of the meeting, their talks do not appear to have yielded any new commitments to denuclearization. Trump becomes the first sitting president to enter North Korea. He takes 20 steps beyond the border and shakes hands with Kim, the leader of the hermit kingdom. Although the American and North Korean governments tout the historic nature of the meeting, their talks do not appear to have yielded any new commitments to denuclearization.July 4, 2019 - during an Independence Day celebration featuring military flyovers, displays of tanks and fireworks. Trump delivers a patriotic speech during an Independence Day celebration featuring military flyovers, displays of tanks and fireworks.July 16, 2019 - The The House votes , 240-187, to condemn the racist language Trump used in his tweets about Ocasio-Cortez, Tlaib, Omar and Pressley.July 17, 2019 - During a campaign rally in North Carolina, During a campaign rally in North Carolina, Trump criticizes Omar. In response, crowd members chant, "Send her back." The president later says he was unhappy with the chant.July 24, 2019 - Mueller testifies before the House Judiciary Committee and the House Intelligence Committee.July 25, 2019 - Trump speaks on the phone with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. Trump asks Zelensky for a "favor," encouraging him to speak with Giuliani about investigating Biden. In the days before the call, Trump speaks on the phone with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. Trump asks Zelensky for a "favor," encouraging him to speak with Giuliani about investigating Biden. In the days before the call, Trump blocked nearly $400 million in military and security aid to Ukraine.August 12, 2019 - A whistleblower files a complaint pertaining to Trump's conduct on the Zelensky call.August 29, 2019 - a military unit that will oversee security of satellites. Trump announces the establishment of the Space Command, a military unit that will oversee security of satellites.September 10, 2019 - House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff (D-CA) House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff (D-CA) sends a letter to Joseph Maguire, acting Director of National Intelligence. Schiff demands that Maguire share the whistleblower complaint with Congress.September 11, 2019 - The Trump administration lifts its hold on military aid for Ukraine.September 18, 2019 - that Maguire has agreed to testify before the Intelligence Committee. Schiff announces that Maguire has agreed to testify before the Intelligence Committee.September 25, 2019 - The The White House releases notes from the July 25 call between Trump and Zelensky. The readout contains multiple references to Giuliani and Barr. In response, the Justice Department issues a statement that says Barr didn't know about Trump's conversation until weeks after the call. Further, the attorney general didn't talk to the president about having Ukraine investigate the Bidens, according to the Justice Department. On the same day as the notes are released,Trump and Zelensky meet in person for the first time on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly. During a joint press conference after the meeting, both men deny that Trump pressured Zelensky to investigate Biden in exchange for aid. Trump says the notes from the call exonerate him: "Impeachment for What? When you have a wonderful meeting or you have a wonderful phone conversation?"September 26, 2019 - The House releases a declassified version of the The House releases a declassified version of the whistleblower complaint just before a hearing with Maguire. According to the complaint, officials at the White House tried to "lock down" records of Trump's phone conversation with Zelensky. The complaint also alleges that Barr played a role in the campaign to convince Zelensky that Biden should be investigated. Trump describes the complaint as "fake news" and "a witch hunt" on Twitter.October 9, 2019 - Turkey launches a military offensive in northern Syria.October 19, 2019 - Trump says via Twitter that the G7 Trump says via Twitter that the G7 will not be held at the Doral as planned. "I thought I was doing something very good for our Country," Trump writes. "I announced that I would be willing to do it at NO PROFIT or, if legally permissible, at ZERO COST to the USA. But, as usual, the Hostile Media & their Democrat Partners went CRAZY!"October 27, 2019 - Trump announces that ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi died during a military raid in Syria. In a televised speech, Trump announces that ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi died during a military raid in Syria.October 31, 2019 - Trump says via Twitter that he is Trump says via Twitter that he is changing his legal residency from New York to Florida, explaining that he feels he is treated badly by political leaders from the city and state.November 7, 2019 - A judge orders Trump to pay $2 million to settle a lawsuit against his charity filed by the New York state attorney general. According to the suit, Trump breached his fiduciary duty by allowing his presidential campaign to direct the distribution of donations. In a statement, Trump accuses the attorney general of mischaracterizing the settlement for political purposes.