(CNN) Don't worry too much about the two national turkeys chosen for presidential pardons this year.Not only is their salvation secured, but so's their retirement home.For the fourth straight year, the special pair will flock from the White House to enjoy their golden years at -- wait for it -- Gobblers Rest at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University in Blacksburg."Virginia Tech has a long tradition of supporting the turkey industry through research and outreach, so it's fitting that the Presidential Turkeys becoming part of the Hokie Nation is a new tradition," said Rami Dalloul, a professor in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, in a statement. Dalloul is a poultry immunologist who sequenced the turkey genome.Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys President Donald Trump is joined by his wife, Melania, as he pardons Butter the turkey on Tuesday, November 26. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys Trump pardons Peas the turkey in 2018. Peas and another turkey, Carrots, were sent to a Virginia farm to spend the rest of their lives. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys Reporters gets a sneak peek at Wishbone, who was pardoned in 2017. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys President Barack Obama, with his nephews Aaron and Austin Robinson, pardons Tot the turkey in 2016. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys Obama and his daughters, Sasha and Malia, applaud Cheese, the national Thanksgiving turkey, in 2014. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys Obama gestures while pardoning a turkey in 2012. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys Malia Obama pets Liberty the turkey in 2011. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys President George W. Bush stands with members of the Hill family, who raised Pumpkin the turkey, during Pumpkin's pardoning ceremony in 2008. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys Bush pets May the turkey in 2007. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys Bush pardons Biscuits in 2004. Biscuits and his alternate, Gravy, went on to a petting zoo in Virginia. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys President George H.W. Bush participates in the traditional pardoning in 1990. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys The National Thanksgiving Turkey flaps its wings, startling President Ronald Reagan and other guests during the 1987 pardoning ceremony. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys Reagan admires a turkey in 1982. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys First lady Rosalynn Carter and her daughter, Amy, pardoned the National Thanksgiving Turkey in 1978. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: US presidents pardoning turkeys President Gerald R. Ford is presented with the National Thanksgiving Turkey in 1975. The turkey was presented by Marvin DeWitt of Zeeland, Michigan. According to the White House memo, it was the first time that the president, the turkey and the presenter were all from the same state. Hide Caption 15 of 15The National Thanksgiving Turkey and its alternate will join Peas and Carrots, last year's pardoned birds. Earlier lucky cluckers Wishbone and Drumstick, plus Tater and Tot, died at Gobblers Rest of natural causes.Read More