If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Good morning parents and grandparents. Did you survive the first weekend of "Frozen 2" madness? The movie set a record for biggest global opening for an animated film ever. No surprise there.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. US NavyThe Pentagon made a very unusual move yesterday and forced Navy Secretary Richard Spencer to resign for his part in ongoing tensions between the White House and the Pentagon over the discipline of a Navy SEAL. Spencer allegedly went outside his chain of command to propose a "secret agreement with the White House" to end the standoff, according to a senior defense official. President Trump has vocally supported the SEAL, Eddie Gallagher, who is one of three service members facing war crimes allegations. Gallagher posed with the dead body of an ISIS fighter, which is against regulations, and could be kicked out of the force as a result. Trump has openly criticized the Navy's handling of Gallagher's case and said he would not let the Navy discipline him . Against advice from the Pentagon, he officially restored Gallagher's rank last week and pardoned the two other service members. However, yesterday military officials announced the White House will not intervene in the review2. Hong KongThe people of Hong Kong went to the polls this weekend in what was considered a de facto referendum on six months of violent unrest in the city. The results were abundantly clear: Pro-democracy candidates won the district council elections in a landslide , unseating several high-profile pro-government leaders and taking nearly 90% of the seats up for grabs. A record-breaking 71% of the city's population voted. Experts say the historic outcome is a sign that the people of Hong Kong are committed to democracy and political reform, and citizens are hoping the results will point a way forward from the city's current state of unrest.JUST WATCHED The evolution of the Hong Kong protests Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The evolution of the Hong Kong protests 04:143. Impeachment investigationJUST WATCHED Honig: These are 2 indisputable points on impeachment Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Honig: These are 2 indisputable points on impeachment 04:564. EgyptThe offices of Mada Masr, one of the last independent news outlets in Egypt, was raided by security forces yesterday . Four of the publication's staff, including the editor-in-chief and news editor, were detained and later released. The raid was condemned by several international rights organizations, and is a worrying development in the country's ongoing political tensions. In September, a wave of rare anti-government protests swept Egypt as citizens demanded the resignation of President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. Sisi was elected president in 2014, but he has since secured legislative powers that extended his term in office longer than the Egyptian constitution allows. Mada Masr's journalism has exposed corruption, security violations and the inner workings of the government, even in the face of nationwide crackdowns on reporting freedoms.JUST WATCHED NYT publisher talks about Trump's effect on journalists Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NYT publisher talks about Trump's effect on journalists 03:335. BrexitAll Boris Johnson wants for Christmas is a Brexit vote. The UK's Prime Minister promised a speedy new vote on his Brexit deal and a lot of funding pledges if Conservatives win Britain's general election on December 12th. Johnson's Conservative party rolled out their manifesto yesterday, which included a "triple lock" on income tax, national insurance and VAT rates, a childcare program, an Australian-style points based immigration system, plus pledges for 20,000 new police officers and 50,000 extra nurses. Johnson also promised an extra £1 billion for social care and a £2 billion plan to fill potholes around the country. Keep in mind: Whatever happens election-wise, promise-wise or pothole-wise, the new Brexit deadline as set by the EU is January 31st.JUST WATCHED Here's what you need to know about Brexit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's what you need to know about Brexit 03:13BREAKFAST BROWSELizzo's tiny purse stole the show at the American Music AwardsThe iconic Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade balloons may not fly because of high windsSpeaking of Thanksgiving, you want to check your fridge and supplies for these recalled foodsThe only thing dangerous on your Thanksgiving table should be the carving knife.Elon Musk says Tesla has gotten 146,000 orders for the futuristic "Cybertruck" since its unveilingTODAY'S QUOTE"OK boomer."JUST WATCHED Gaetz to Kellyanne Conway on marijuana reform: OK boomer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Gaetz to Kellyanne Conway on marijuana reform: OK boomer 01:56TODAY'S NUMBER33The total number of players disciplined for their part in that ugly brawl between the Cleveland Browns and the Pittsburgh Steelers nearly two weeks ago. That's a LOT of players.JUST WATCHED Myles Garrett swung a helmet at Mason Rudolph Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Myles Garrett swung a helmet at Mason Rudolph 00:39TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Multiple Winter Storms Hamper Thanksgiving Travel Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Multiple Winter Storms Hamper Thanksgiving Travel 01:47AND FINALLYSooo relaxing