If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Have you flown the superlative skies? An airline rating site has named the world's most excellent airlines for 2020 , and needless to say, they're pretty swanky.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Impeachment investigationIt may be a slow holiday work week for some, but two major court decisions made for a busy day on Capitol Hill . A federal judge said former White House counsel Don McGahn must testify before the House of Representatives . McGahn and others have said they don't need to comply with congressional calls to testify because they have blanket immunity as White House officials. "Presidents are not kings," wrote federal Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, saying high-ranking officials are not immune and must testify when compelled by the legislative process. Not only is this a win for Democrats, who have been trying to get McGahn to talk for months, it also has big implications for other resistant officials, like chief of staff Mick Mulvaney or even President Trump himself, who could be forced to testify if more judges agree with yesterday's ruling. However, Dems should temper their optimism: Also yesterday, the Supreme Court blocked the House's subpoena of Trump's financial records . Still, House Democrats are chugging along with impeachment articles , which may expand past the Ukraine scandal.2. Winter weatherJUST WATCHED Two Systems Cause Major Problems for Thanksgiving Travel Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Two Systems Cause Major Problems for Thanksgiving Travel 01:533. 2020 DemsMichael Bloomberg is officially running for president. The former New York mayor kicked off his campaign and said Trump is less likely to get reelected with him in the race. That's a pretty clear knock on the other Democratic candidates, whom Bloomberg sees as unable to defeat Trump. The media billionaire has already bought $37 million worth of campaign ads over the next two weeks, which has led Elizabeth Warren and other Democratic candidates to accuse him of trying to "buy the nomination." Bloomberg said he knows "what it takes to beat Trump because I already have," referring to personal investments in Democratic gun and climate efforts. If Bloomberg were to win, the 2020 election would pit two established New York City rich guys who've both been accused of using wealth and name recognition for political gain.JUST WATCHED Dem 2020 candidate skipped Iowa. See how Iowans reacted Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dem 2020 candidate skipped Iowa. See how Iowans reacted 01:504. China, Uber, TiffanyThree major moves have dominated the business world , so let's round them up:China extended an olive branch on the trade front by rolling out new guidelines about intellectual property. There aren't too many details yet, but the measures could address longtime concerns from Washington and pave the way for a possible trade truce.London stripped Uber of its license to operate in the city. The shocking decision is a huge blow to the company, given that London is one of its biggest markets. London's transportation agency concluded Uber is "not fit and proper" to operate due to lapses in passenger safety measures after it found 14,000 recent trips involved unauthorized drivers. Uber will appeal.• French luxury group LVMH finalized a deal to buy New York jeweler Tiffany & Co., putting the value of the company at $16.2 billion. It's one of the biggest deals ever in the luxury sector , and the news sent Tiffany's stock soaring.JUST WATCHED Uber loses London license again but can keep driving for now Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Uber loses London license again but can keep driving for now 02:215. Castle heistJUST WATCHED Priceless treasure stolen from German castle vault Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Priceless treasure stolen from German castle vault 08:59BREAKFAST BROWSEEye injuries from paintball and BB guns are going upOlympic skier Mikaela Shiffrin won a reindeer and named it IngemarPhotos: Shiffrin's career so far American skier Mikaela Shiffrin is arguably the most dominant athlete in sport right now. The 24-year-old has taken skiing by storm, winning 17 World Cup races across four of the six disciplines last season to take her overall tally to 60 victories. Here's a look back at her short but sweet career so far. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far 2011 – Shiffrin grew up skiing from an early age thanks to parents who were both competitive college skiers. She rose quickly through the junior ranks and joined the World Cup circuit two days before her 16th birthday in 2011. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far 2011 – The American (right) secured her first World Cup medal in December 2011, winning a bronze in the slalom. Her potential didn't go unnoticed as she was named rookie of the year. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far 2012 – Shiffrin lived up to her hype during the following season, winning her first World Cup slalom event in Lienz, Austria. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far 2013 – The youngster continued her good form, winning a further three World Cup slalom races that season. She also struck slalom gold at the 2013 World Championships in Schladming, Austria. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far 2013 – She ended a remarkable season with a first World Cup slalom crown, which she defended the following year. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far 2014 – As world champion, the pressure was on the 18-year-old to perform at the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics. She didn't disappoint. Shiffrin became the youngest ever Olympic slalom champion and the first American to win the title in 42 years. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far 2015 – Following her Olympic success, the American won her third straight World Cup slalom crown in 2015. She also defended her slalom title at the 2015 World Championships. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far 2016 – A knee injury stalled her career the following season and she had to settle for fourth in the slalom standings. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far 2017 – Shiffrin was back to her best in 2017, though, winning a fifth slalom World Cup title and adding a third World Championship gold. She also won her first overall World Cup title. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far 2018 – As her reputation grew, so did her popularity and all eyes were on Shiffrin to perform at the 2018 Winter Olympics. She was affected by the weather-hit schedule and despite winning gold in the giant slalom and silver in the combined she missed out completely in slalom. But she won the World Cup overall and slalom titles again at the end of the season to confirm her status as America's new superstar. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far Shiffrin has been on fire during the 2018-19 season and has made waves beyond ski racing for her level of consistency and domination. She has climbed to fifth on the list off all-time most successful ski racers, and third woman behind Lindsey Vonn and Annemarie Moser-Proll. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far At the 2019 FIS World Championships in Are, Sweden she struck in the opening super-G race to score her fourth world title. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far And she clinched a remarkable fourth straight slalom world title -- a streak stretching back to 2013 -- to go with a bronze in the giant slalom in Sweden. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far Following the World Championships, Shiffrin won a World Cup slalom event in Stockholm to score a record-equaling 14th title of the season. She also wrapped up a third straight season slalom crown and sixth in seven years. She clinched a third straight overall crown when racing was canceled in Sochi. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far Soon after she pushed the record to 15 wins - unprecedented for men or women -- with a slalom victory (her 58th) in the Czech Republic. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Shiffrin's career so far At the World Cup finals in Soldeu, Andorra in March, Shiffrin wrapped up a third Crystal Globe of 2019 with a first season title in the super-G. Hide Caption 17 of 17'Can you take your turkey on a plane?' And other burning holiday travel questionsHere's how you can watch 'A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving' this yearTODAY'S QUOTE"You can't stamp ultra-hard 30X steel, because it breaks the stamping press."Elon Musk, explaining why Tesla's new Cybertruck everyone's talking about is so angular and weird-looking (or as Musk said, "planar").JUST WATCHED Tesla's Cybertruck looks straight out of the 70s. Here's why Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tesla's Cybertruck looks straight out of the 70s. Here's why 05:26TODAY'S NUMBER$4 billionThat's how much EBay is getting for ticket reseller StubHub in a huge deal with European ticket reseller Viagogo . You have to admit, there's some irony in a bunch of resale companies, well, reselling companies.JUST WATCHED EBay sells StubHub in $4 billion deal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH EBay sells StubHub in $4 billion deal 02:07AND FINALLYIt takes more than Disney magic