If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) In Mexico, investigators are using ash and bones to retrace the final moments before drug cartels massacred nine US citizens near the border.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Mexico massacreOver 48 hours after three American women and six children were slaughtered in broad daylight in Mexico , the nation's authorities have not identified who fired the 200 shots and now say the only man arrested is not involved. US and Mexican officials also appear to have different theories on who's responsible . In Mexico, a local attorney general says he believes it's a newly formed Los Jaguares cartel, an offshoot of the infamous Sinaloa drug cartel. But a US official blamed it on a rival cartel called La Línea. Investigators are sifting through ash, bones and a gutted car to piece together what happened Monday on a rural road in Sonora. Eight kids survived the massacre.2. AirbnbJUST WATCHED Family takes photo with hidden camera found in Airbnb Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Family takes photo with hidden camera found in Airbnb 02:143. New HIV strainFor the first time in nearly two decades, scientists have discovered a new strain of HIV . The virus that causes AIDS has different strains , and it has the ability to change and mutate over time. This is the first new strain identified since the guidelines for classifying subtypes were established in 2000. About 37 million people worldwide are living with HIV. Identifying a new strain provides a more complete map of how the virus evolves, says Dr. Anthony Fauci of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.JUST WATCHED Scientists discover new strain of HIV Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Scientists discover new strain of HIV 00:324. Ukraine inquiryJUST WATCHED Key takeaways from the impeachment inquiry transcripts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Key takeaways from the impeachment inquiry transcripts 07:255. Slain coupleman has been arrested after a New Hampshire couple was found dead and buried in the sand on a Texas beach last month after missing for 10 days. Adam Curtis Williams was taken into custody in Mexico on a felony theft charge after authorities released a photo of him driving the couple's truck. Investigators want to talk to a woman who was seen on the surveillance video in the passenger's seat of the truck, and she could be extradited to the US, police said.JUST WATCHED Remains of missing New Hampshire couple found in Texas Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remains of missing New Hampshire couple found in Texas 00:46BREAKFAST BROWSEMillennial fights backA lawmaker was heckled in the New Zealand parliament by an older politician. "OK, boomer," she fired back, harnessing the power of a viral meme.JUST WATCHED See 25-year-old politician's response to heckler Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See 25-year-old politician's response to heckler 00:54Student of the yearA 9-year-old Florida boy offered to give his teacher a pay raise with his $15 birthday money . Who's cutting onions around here?Whatever it takesAstronaut Andrew Morgan voted from space in the Pennsylvania election. Think about that the next time you want to sleep in on Election Day.JUST WATCHED NASA astronaut captures stunning timelapse Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NASA astronaut captures stunning timelapse 00:50Elsa is growing upThe "Frozen 2" soundtrack has some bold music choices . Panic! at the Disco is one of the bands getting in touch with their inner Elsa in the new sequel.TODAY'S QUOTE"That photo and me getting unjustly fired from my position at work kicked off my drive and kicked off my desire to become active politically. That day that I got fired, I went home and signed up to work the polls."Juli Briskman, the cyclist who was fired for flipping off President Trump's motorcade in 2017, after she , the cyclist who was fired for flipping off President Trump's motorcade in 2017, after she won her bid Tuesday for local office in VirginiaJUST WATCHED Woman who flipped off Trump motorcade wins election Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman who flipped off Trump motorcade wins election 01:23TODAY'S NUMBER2 millionThe number of pounds of chicken products recalled in eight states over fears of foreign matter contaminationJUST WATCHED What to do when food is recalled Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What to do when food is recalled 01:01TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Snow moving into the Great Lakes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Snow moving into the Great Lakes 01:40AND FINALLYThanks, but no thanks