If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Scientists may have found in plant DNA the key to slowing human aging . Living forever seems exhausting, but hey, we'll take a few more years of youthful energy.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. IsraelThe Trump administration reversed decades of foreign policy and handed a win to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, all in one fell swoop. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced the US no longer considers Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank to be "inconsistent with international law." This defies a 1978 State Department decision and goes against the views traditionally held by US allies. The West Bank, as you know, is one of the focal points of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. This pro-Israel move not only nods to President Trump's conservative base, it also gives Netanyahu a big political gift . Israel is in a sort of political free-for-all following September's inconclusive elections, and Trump's signal of support could give Netanyahu a leg up in trying to form a government.2. Impeachment investigationJUST WATCHED Trump attacks impeachment witnesses, suggests he might testify Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump attacks impeachment witnesses, suggests he might testify 04:483. GoogleGoogle isn't staying on defense in the face of a multistate antitrust probe. The search giant has requested a massive trove of documents related to the probe, which would essentially reveal all the information supplied to investigators by Google's biggest rivals and critics. The investigation is being carried out by 50 attorneys general representing 48 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia, and it's being led by the attorney general from Texas. Google previously tried keep the attorney general from releasing confidential information about the company to consultants working on the probe. Critics say Google's latest move is another attempt to strong-arm the process and intimidate possible witnesses.JUST WATCHED Google's health initiative collects personal data Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Google's health initiative collects personal data 00:464. IranIran has gone almost entirely offline in what may be the country's largest internet shutdown ever. The blackout is happening as authorities try to stem the rising tide of protests that have rocked the country since Friday. Internet watchdogs say the outage started Sunday night and continued through Monday. Social media often plays a key role in mobilizing protesters, but it's unclear if the outage, decried by activists, will actually help the situation. The latest round of protests started in response to a proposed fuel hike, but in reality, discontent over Iran's leadership has been brewing for years. Cutting internet access shows that the government is probably rattled by its citizens' demonstrations.JUST WATCHED Iran says security forces may act against gas price protests Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iran says security forces may act against gas price protests 01:575. Chick-fil-AIs Chick-fil-A adding a side of social progress to its menu? The fast food chain announced it will no longer donate to two major charities that have been criticized as anti-LGBTQ. Chick-fil-A said it won't donate to the Salvation Army or the Fellowship of Christian Athletes in favor of charities that focus exclusively on education, homelessness and hunger. The chain and its delicious chicken sandwiches have long been a subject of debate and moral conflict, held up by conservatives as a rare corporation that sticks to ostensibly conservative Christian principles and decried by others for supporting groups that discriminate against LGBTQ communities. Gay rights organization GLAAD says Chick-fil-A's news should be greeted with "cautious optimism."JUST WATCHED The chicken sandwich wars are here Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The chicken sandwich wars are here 01:09BREAKFAST BROWSEFox has filed a trademark application for a TV show called 'OK boomer'JUST WATCHED New Zealand MP's "OK boomer" retort goes viral Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New Zealand MP's "OK boomer" retort goes viral 05:15Man's mystery illness was caused by his feather duvetAre airline passengers getting more unruly?JUST WATCHED Man allegedly touched other passengers' faces on flight Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man allegedly touched other passengers' faces on flight 00:32That viral 'Secret Sisters' gift exchange idea is actually a scamTODAY'S QUOTE"Asking for personal favors and using United States assets as collateral is wrong."Rex Tillerson, when asked Former Secretary of State, when asked what he would have done if he were in the White House and a situation similar to the Ukraine calls being examined in the impeachment investigation were to play outJUST WATCHED Tillerson takes swipe at Trump over Ukraine dealings Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tillerson takes swipe at Trump over Ukraine dealings 01:53TODAY'S NUMBER3,769The number of square miles of Amazon rainforest that were lost in the 12 months ending in July . That's a 29.5% increase over the previous 12-month span and the highest rate of Amazon deforestation in 11 years.JUST WATCHED Brazilian FM: The Amazon is not burning (September) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Brazilian FM: The Amazon is not burning (September) 18:14HAPPENING LATERIt's debate timeUK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn will field questions and fling barbs in the first of several debates leading up to the UK's general election next month.JUST WATCHED George Osborne: Boris Johnson taking a big risk Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH George Osborne: Boris Johnson taking a big risk 18:59TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Heavy rain and flash flooding threaten the Desert Southwest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Heavy rain and flash flooding threaten the Desert Southwest 01:41AND FINALLYCaptured in crystal