(CNN) A wildfire erupted overnight in the hills above communities in Southern California's Ventura County, forcing evacuations for thousands of people even as weather conditions may be improving for firefighters battling blazes across the state.The Maria Fire broke out Thursday night on a mountain between the communities of Santa Paula and Somis, and raced downhill, spreading to about 8,730 acres in less than 12 hours and destroying at least two homes, officials said."It looked like a volcano up there," Mike Holwick, who lives in the Saticoy neighborhood west of the fire, told CNN affiliate KCAL . "I mean, everything was just all igniting, the tree lines, all the brush, it really looked like a volcano," Holwick said. "The ash was going everywhere."No injuries have been reported. It is one of at least a dozen active wildfires in California, many of them stoked by furious winds in recent days.A long exposure photo shows the Maria Fire as it races across a hillside in Santa Paula, California, on November 1, 2019.The fire was still just under 9,000 acres Friday evening, with 1,300 firefighters from California and other western US states battling the challenging blaze, Ventura County Fire Chief Mark Lorenzen said at a press conference.Although some progress has been made, "There is still cause for caution and concern," Lorenzen said. "We're not out of the woods yet. We still have at least 24 hours of critical fire weather ahead of us."By Friday evening, the Maria Fire forced evacuation orders for almost 11,000 people around the mountain, roughly 50 miles northwest of Los Angeles, Ventura County Sheriff Bill Ayub said.Video from CNN affiliates showed much of the mountain glowing orange in the predawn darkness Friday, looming over Santa Paula, a city of about 30,000 people.Weather conditions still may pose a problem, but they are improving. Red flag warnings — meaning wind, humidity and other conditions are ripe for fires — have been extended until Saturday evening for parts of Southern California.But winds should be slower — 35 mph gusts are possible, compared with gusts above 70 mph earlier in the week, forecasters say.Weaker winds and low pre-dawn temperatures — about 53 degrees Fahrenheit in the Santa Paula area — "have reduced the (Maria Fire's) ability to aggressively run downhill," the Ventura County fire department said on TwitterA wind shift that may push the wind "deeper into the fire," is a concern on Saturday, said National Weather Service spokesman Ryan Cattell.Photos: Wildfires scorch California Firefighters spray water on a backfire while battling the spread of the Maria Fire on Friday, November 1. It is just one of the numerous wildfires in California right now. Hide Caption 1 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A firefighter works at containing the Maria Fire in the hills near Ventura, California, on November 1. Hide Caption 2 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Firefighters spray water onto a tree while fighting the Maria Fire in Ventura County, California, on November 1. Hide Caption 3 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A long-exposure photo shows the Maria Fire as it races across a hillside in Santa Paula, California, on November 1. Hide Caption 4 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Firefighters watch the progress of a backfire near Somis. Hide Caption 5 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California The remains of the Louis Robidoux Nature Center keep smoldering after the structure was destroyed by a wildfire in Riverside, California. Hide Caption 6 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A firefighter sprays down the smoldering remains of a burning home in San Bernardino, California, on Thursday, October 31. It was affected by the Hillside Fire. Hide Caption 7 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Marco Alcaraz uses a garden hose to try to slow down the advance of the Easy Fire in Simi Valley. Hide Caption 8 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Firefighters work to prevent a blaze from spreading to other homes in San Bernardino. Hide Caption 9 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California An Air Force One from Ronald Reagan's presidency sits on display as the Easy Fire burns near Reagan's presidential library on October 30. Hide Caption 10 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Firefighters brace themselves for incoming fire retardant as they battle the Easy Fire in Simi Valley. Hide Caption 11 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Fabio Losurdo comforts his horse, Smarty, at a ranch in Simi Valley on October 30. Hide Caption 12 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Flames approach the backyards of mobile homes in Jurupa Valley, California, on October 30. Hide Caption 13 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Laura Horvitz, right, and Robyn Phipps help rescue goats from a ranch near the Reagan Presidential Library. Hide Caption 14 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Health care workers evacuate the Riverside Heights Healthcare Center on October 30. Hide Caption 15 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Inmate firefighters battle the Kincade Fire near Healdsburg, California, on Tuesday, October 29. Hide Caption 16 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A home between Healdsburg and Windsor is surrounded by charred ground on October 29. Hide Caption 17 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California From left, California Gov. Gavin Newsom, Los Angeles City Councilman Mike Bonin and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti tour a burned home in Brentwood, California, on October 29. Hide Caption 18 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Firefighters work near the Getty Center in Los Angeles on Monday, October 28. Hide Caption 19 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Thousands of Los Angeles residents were forced to evacuate their homes because of the Getty Fire. Hide Caption 20 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Los Angeles County firefighter Collin Bashara rests near his truck on October 28. Hide Caption 21 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Smoke from the Kincade Fire hangs over Healdsburg as farm animals graze in a pasture on October 28. Hide Caption 22 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A man walks past a burning home in Los Angeles on October 28. Hide Caption 23 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Fire crews walk along a blackened ridge as they battle the Getty Fire in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 24 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Firefighters battling the Kincade Fire spray water at a home in Windsor on Sunday, October 27. Hide Caption 25 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Firefighters burn fuel around a home in Windsor in an effort to save it from the Kincade Fire. Hide Caption 26 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Dr. Emily Putt, a veterinarian who helps rescue horses from fire zones, comforts a horse as the Kincade Fire burns in Healdsburg on October 27. Hide Caption 27 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A firefighter passes a burning home as the Kincade Fire rages in Healdsburg on October 27. Hide Caption 28 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Vines smolder in a cloud of smoke in Healdsburg. Hide Caption 29 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Flames from the Kincade Fire consume a home in Healdsburg. Hide Caption 30 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A team of firefighters put out a smoldering vine in Healdsburg. Hide Caption 31 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California The Soda Rock Winery burns in the Kincade Fire. Hide Caption 32 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Firefighters from the Dry Creek Rancheria remove an American flag in Healdsburg. Hide Caption 33 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A firefighter watches over a structure as the Kincade Fire threatens Chalk Hill Road in Healdsburg. Hide Caption 34 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A firefighter sets a backfire along a hillside in Healdsburg on Saturday, October 26. Hide Caption 35 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A line of fire snakes along a hillside as firefighters light backfires to slow the spread of the Kincade Fire near Geyserville, California, on October 26. Hide Caption 36 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Sodhi Singh closes up his Chevron station shortly after losing power in Healdsburg on October 26. In an attempt to avoid any more catastrophic wildfires, Pacific Gas & Electric began shutting down the power to about 940,000 customers, citing a historic wind event in northern and central parts of the state. Hide Caption 37 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A backfire set by firefighters burns along a hillside in Healdsburg. Hide Caption 38 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Sandy Beddow evacuates Healdsburg with her dog. Hide Caption 39 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Firefighters set a backfire along a hillside in Healdsburg. Hide Caption 40 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Firefighters hose down a burning house in Agua Dulce, California, on Friday, October 25. It was affected by the Tick Fire, which broke out near Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 41 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Orange County firefighters put out remaining hot spots from a brush fire in San Clemente, California, on October 25. Hide Caption 42 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A firefighting aircraft intervenes over Sonoma County, California, where the Kincade Fire was burning on October 25. Hide Caption 43 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A firefighter sprays water on a burning home in Sonoma County on Thursday, October 24. Hide Caption 44 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A Los Angeles County firefighter monitors the area as the Tick Fire burns near homes in Canyon Country on October 24. Hide Caption 45 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California The Kincade Fire burns in the Jimtown community of Sonoma County on October 24. Hide Caption 46 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A firefighter works the scene of a burned-out home in Santa Clarita on October 24. Hide Caption 47 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Brandon Mani covers his face from the smoke as he walks along Highway 14 in Santa Clarita. Hide Caption 48 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A helicopter passes a smoke plume on October 24. Hide Caption 49 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A structure continues to burn after the Kincade Fire moved through Geyserville on October 24. Hide Caption 50 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Geyserville, about 80 miles north of San Francisco, is among the communities under mandatory evacuation order. Hide Caption 51 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Two firefighters discuss a plan while battling the wildfire in Geyserville. Hide Caption 52 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California The sun rises above a smoke-filled valley in Geyserville on October 24. Hide Caption 53 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California A fire whirl whips across dry brush as the Kincade Fire spreads through Sonoma County on October 24. Hide Caption 54 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Trees burn as the fire engulfs a hillside in Geyserville. Hide Caption 55 of 56 Photos: Wildfires scorch California Embers fly across a roadway in Jimtown on October 24. Hide Caption 56 of 56Multiple fires are burningOf the active fires burning in California, more than half broke out this week. The fires stretch across the state from Mendocino County in the north to San Diego County in the south.The biggest fire, the Kincade Fire, has incinerated parts of the wine country in Sonoma County since last week.Together, the fires had burned through about 100,000 acres by Thursday night.In the Los Angeles area, firefighters are battling multiple blazes, including the Getty Fire — though all evacuations from that blaze were lifted Friday, officials saidThe Getty Fire, which began Monday west of Interstate 405, had forced the evacuations of residents including NBA star LeBron JamesThough evacuations were lifted, the 745-acre fire still was only 66% contained, the city fire department saidHigh winds blow hot embers from the Kincade Fire on October 29, 2019 in Calistoga, California.About 40 miles northwest of the city, the Easy Fire broke out in Simi Valley on Wednesday. Wind gusts of hurricane force — at least 74 mph — were reported at a weather station about seven miles north of Simi Valley on Thursday.The Easy Fire has consumed more than 1,800 acres in Ventura County and threatened 6,500 homes, officials said. The fire forced school closures and mandatory evacuations of about 30,000 people in Simi Valley, officials said. It was 80% contained.The Ventura County Fire Department was sending resources from the Easy Fire to help contain the Maria Fire, Capt. Brian McGrath said.East of Los Angeles, the 46 Fire has burned 300 acres, according to the Riverside County Fire Department . The blaze broke out early Thursday as the result of a police pursuit, Riverside Police said.Two suspects in a reportedly stolen car led authorities on a 15-minute chase that ended in a field. The car's tires were so damaged that they sparked a fire that spread quickly and destroyed three homes, police said. The two suspects were arrested, and the driver of the car will be charged with arson in addition to felony evading and car theft, authorities said.Marco Alcaraz uses a garden hose to try to slow down the advance of the Easy fire as it approaches a property on Wednesday in Simi Valley, California.'Pictures I didn't save'The Hillside Fire destroyed at least six homes near San Bernardino on Thursday, officials have said.Matthew Valdivia's family home was one of those destroyed. He evacuated with his wife and children, but their home burned to the ground."It hurts, but this can get replaced," he said. "You can't replace a life. That was my priority — just my kids and making sure everybody was aware."One thing he regrets not grabbing: a laptop with the only copies of some baby photographs of his children."That's the only thing that hurts my feelings a lot — pictures I didn't save," he said.Matthew Valdivia stands in front of the burned wreckage of his house in San Bernardino.California's biggest fire is far from containedNorth of the San Francisco Bay, the week-old Kincade Fire — the state's largest active wildfire — has destroyed nearly 78,000 acres across Sonoma County and more than 260 structures, including more than 130 single-family homes, officials said.It was about 68% contained.The Kincade Fire started October 23, but the cause is still under investigation.