(CNN) She arrived at a suburban Washington, DC, hospital around 1:30 a.m. Thursday unconscious and unresponsive. Julia E. Crabbe was suffering from an apparent overdose, authorities said.She died in the emergency room, the Loudoun County Sheriff's Office said.The 21-year-old Reston, Virginia, woman's death last week led the Loudoun County Sheriff's Office to search an Ashburn, Virginia, area home in connection with the investigation into her overdose, Kraig Troxell, a sheriff's office spokesman told CNN.Pills, marijuana and foil with some kind of residue were found at the Ashburn townhouse, which belongs to Washington Redskins safety Montae Nicholson, according to a search warrant obtained by CNN affiliate WJLA. The search warrant, which was made public on Tuesday, does not say who the drugs belonged to or where they were found in Nicholson's home.Authorities are trying to determine where Crabbe was and what she was doing before she died. Nicholson is cooperating with the investigation, his attorney told CNN."Mr. Nicholson has no knowledge of the narcotics that were found. They would have belonged either to the victim or a guest of the home. Mr. Nicholson did not provide her with narcotics," attorney Mark Dycio said in a phone interview on Tuesday.Dycio said the focus shouldn't be on where Crabbe died but instead on "the drug epidemic ravaging this country."A confidential informant told a Loudoun County Sheriff's Office narcotics detective that he, Nicholson, Crabbe and another man traveled to Washington, DC, on November 13 to hang out and eat, the search warrant said.A second informant told authorities a man who was out with Nicholson called him early on November 14 to say that Crabbe was "foaming at the mouth and was believed to be overdosing," the search warrant said.The Loudoun County Sheriff's Office said two men brought Crabbe to the Inova Emergency Room-Ashburn HealthPlex in Ashburn and immediately left the area.Surveillance cameras at the hospital captured Nicholson and another man arriving early Thursday morning in a black Nissan Armada, the search warrant said.Dycio told CNN that Nicholson stayed with Crabbe the entire time she was at the hospital. Dycio said Crabbe was "not a girlfriend, but certainly more than a friend."Nicholson declined to talk to reporters at the team practice the day after Crabbe's death.The Washington Redskins said then the team was "aware of the tragic event," and had alerted the league office. The team said it is cooperating with authorities.A Redskins spokesperson declined to comment further Tuesday. Dycio said the NFL has not reached out Nicholson.Days after Crabbe's death, her family and friends held a vigil to honor her memory."Love you, Julia," they said out loud, holding candles in the air, WJLA reported"It just saddens and breaks my heart that I'm not going to be able to see her get married, and have kids, and live a beautiful life," Crabbe's aunt, Kim, told the station. "She was just at the beginning of ... the journey of her life."Another relative told the station the family is confused about what happened."I think that we're confused because it's incomplete. The story's incomplete," Trent Ellis, a cousin, told WJLA.