(CNN) Here's a look at the Sandy Hook Elementary School shootings in Newtown, Connecticut. On December 14, 2012, six adults and 20 children were killed by Adam Lanza, who had earlier killed his mother, Nancy Lanza, in their home.The ShooterBirth date: April 22, 1992Death date: December 14, 2012Birth place: Kingston, New HampshireBirth name: Adam LanzaFather: Peter Lanza, an accountantMother: Nancy (Champion) LanzaLanza's parents were divorced in September 2009.Weapons found at the scene were legally purchased by Nancy Lanza.Lanza used a Bushmaster Model XM15-E2S rifle during the shooting spree. Three weapons were found next to his body; the semiautomatic .223-caliber rifle made by Bushmaster, and two handguns. An Izhmash Saiga-12, 12 gauge semi-automatic shotgun was found in his car.TimelineDecember 14, 2012 - At an unknown time, 20-year-old Adam Lanza kills his mother Nancy, 52, with a .22 caliber Savage Mark II rifle. Lanza then drives his mother's car to Sandy Hook Elementary, about five miles away.At approximately 9:30 a.m., Lanza arrives at Sandy Hook Elementary, a school with about 700 students. The principal, Dawn Hochsprung, had installed a new security system that required every visitor to ring the front entrance's doorbell for admittance. Lanza shoots his way through the entrance.Hochsprung and school psychologist Mary Sherlach step out to the hall to see what is going on, and are followed by Vice Principal Natalie Hammond. Hochsprung and Sherlach are killed, and Hammond is injured.The first 911 calls to police are made at approximately 9:30 a.m. Police and first responders arrive approximately five minutes later.Lanza enters the classroom of substitute teacher Lauren Rousseau. Lanza kills 14 children as well as Rousseau and a teacher's aide.He then enters the classroom of teacher Victoria Soto. Six children in the room, as well as Soto and a teacher's aide, are killed. Lanza dies by suicide in the same classroom, ending the rampage in less than 11 minutes.At about 3:15 p.m., an emotional President Barack Obama gives a televised address, "We're going to have to come together and take meaningful action to prevent more tragedies like this, regardless of the politics." He orders flags to be flown at half-staff at the White House and other federal buildings.December 15, 2012 - Connecticut State Police release the names of the victims: six adult women and 12 girls and eight boys, all ages six and seven.December 16, 2012 - Obama visits with the relatives of those who were killed. He also attends an interfaith vigil. "We can't tolerate this anymore," he says. "These tragedies must end, and to end them we must change."December 17, 2012 - Connecticut Governor Dan Malloy announces a statewide moment of silence on December 21. He also requests that bells be tolled 26 times in memory of the victims.December 18, 2012 - Newtown Superintendent of Schools Janet Robinson announces Sandy Hook students will remain out of school until January. At that time, they will be taught in a converted middle school.January 8, 2013 - Malloy announces the names of the people who will serve on the Sandy Hook Advisory Commission, to review current policy and make recommendations on public safety, mental health and violence prevention policies.March 2013 - A new police report reveals Lanza possessed a list of 500 of the world's most notorious mass murderers, and was trying to rack up the greatest number of kills in history.November 25, 2013 - Connecticut state officials release a Connecticut state officials release a report closing the investigation into the shooting and confirm that Lanza had no assistance and was the only shooter.December 4, 2013 - calls from Sandy Hook Elementary are released. Audio recordings of the 911 calls from Sandy Hook Elementary are released.December 27, 2013 - The The final report on the investigation into the shooting is released.December 15, 2014 - The families of nine children killed, along with one teacher who survived the attack, The families of nine children killed, along with one teacher who survived the attack, file a wrongful death suit against the manufacturers and distributors of the Bushmaster rifle, as well as the retail store and dealer who sold the firearm used in the shooting.March 6, 2015 - The final report of the The final report of the Sandy Hook Advisory Commission is released.December 17, 2015 - In a final agreement, In a final agreement, 16 plaintiffs will share in a $1.5 million settlement against the estate of Nancy Lanza. The plaintiffs are from eight separate lawsuits filed in early 2015.April 14, 2016 - that the wrongful death suit against gun manufacturers can proceed. The judge A superior court judge rules that the wrongful death suit against gun manufacturers can proceed. The judge denies a motion to dismiss the case on the basis that firearms companies have limited liability when their products are used by criminals, according to a federal law passed in 2005.October 14, 2016 - Connecticut Superior Court Judge Barbara Bellis dismisses a lawsuit that families of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting victims had filed against a gun manufacturer, invoking a federal statute known as PLCAA, the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act. The law prohibits lawsuits against gun manufacturers and distributors if their firearms were used in the commission of a criminal act.March 14, 2019 - The Connecticut Supreme Court The Connecticut Supreme Court rules that the families of the Sandy Hook victims can go forward with their lawsuit against Remington, which makes the Bushmaster AR-15 rifle used in the shooting.April 5, 2019 - with the Remington files an appeal with the US Supreme Court, asking the high court to decide on the state's interpretation of a federal statute that grants gun manufacturers immunity from any lawsuit related to injuries that result from criminal misuse of their product.November 12, 2019 - The US Supreme Court declines to take up the Remington appeal.The Victims at Sandy Hook Elementary SchoolAllison Wyatt, 6Ana Marquez-Greene, 6Anne Marie Murphy, 52 (Teacher)Avielle Richman, 6Benjamin Wheeler, 6Caroline Previdi, 6Catherine Hubbard, 6Charlotte Bacon, 6Chase Kowalski, 7Daniel Barden, 7Dawn Lafferty Hochsprung, 47 (Principal)Dylan Hockley, 6Emilie Parker, 6Grace McDonnell, 7Jack Pinto, 6James Mattioli, 6Jesse Lewis, 6Jessica Rekos, 6Josephine Gay, 7Lauren Rousseau, 30 (Teacher)Madeleine Hsu, 6Mary Sherlach, 56 (Psychologist)Noah Pozner, 6Olivia Engel, 6Rachel D'Avino, 29, (Therapist)Victoria Soto, 27 (Teacher)