Story highlights Ariel Castro's three kidnapping victims would be paid for each year they were held as captivesThe bill would apply to anyone held captive for eight years or moreAn Ohio House committee has approved the bill; it now goes to the full HouseA bill that would compensate Ariel Castro's three kidnapping victims up to $25,000 for each year they were held captive, plus other benefits, has cleared a committee in the Ohio House of Representatives.The bill is named the "Michelle Knight, Amanda Berry, and Gina DeJesus Survivors of Abduction Act," after the women who survived years of captivity at the hands of Castro, but its provisions would apply to any person who survives such an ordeal.The law would award up to $25,000 per year from the Ohio Court of Claims' crime victims fund to any survivor of abduction who was held for eight years or more; offer free tuition at any state university or college; and seek to provide the survivor with lifetime medical care through a waiver from the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services.The bill now goes for a vote in the full state House, and if approved would go on to the Ohio Senate.If the bill passes, the Castro's victims could receive $225,000 to $275,000 each, based on their years of captivity, minus whatever other victim assistance they receive, according to the bill.Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Kidnapped teens found decade later – Ariel Castro listens during the sentencing phase of his trial on August 1 in Cleveland alongside defense attorneys Craig Weintraub, left, and Jaye Schlachet. Castro held three women captive for years inside his Ohio home until their escape in May 2013. He pleaded guilty to 937 counts, including murder and kidnapping. On September 4, Castro was found dead inside his prison cell in Orient, Ohio. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Kidnapped teens found decade later – Former captive Michelle Knight, center, talks with reporters on August 7 outside convicted kidnapper Ariel Castro's house. Knight was on hand as workers began tearing down the structure. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Kidnapped teens found decade later – A crane demolishes the Cleveland house of Castro on August 7. Plans call for the house to be torn down and the lot cleared in a single day. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Kidnapped teens found decade later – Here is a view of the house where Castro held the three women captive. He forfeited the house as part of a plea deal with prosecutors that took the death penalty off the table in exchange for a life sentence, plus 1,000 years in prison. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Photos: Kidnapped teens found decade later – Michelle Knight speaks during the sentencing phase for Ariel Castro on August 1 in Cleveland. "I will live on," Knight said in her statement to Castro. "You will die a little every day." Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Photos: Kidnapped teens found decade later – Amanda Berry vanished a few blocks from her Cleveland home on April 21, 2003. She was 16. She spoke in a video released on YouTube on July 8, thanking people for support and privacy. Berry, Gina DeJesus and Michelle Knight escaped from a Cleveland home on May 6, 2013, after being held captive for nearly a decade. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Photos: Kidnapped teens found decade later – Georgina "Gina" DeJesus was last seen in Cleveland on April 2, 2004, on her way home from school. She was 14 when she went missing. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Photos: Kidnapped teens found decade later – Knight was last seen on August 22, 2002, when she was 21. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Kidnapped teens found decade later – FBI agents and other law enforcement officers stand outside Castro's home in Cleveland on May 9, 2013. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Kidnapped teens found decade later – Castro hangs his head while talking with his public defender, Kathleen DeMetz, during his arraignment on May 9, 2013. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Kidnapped teens found decade later – Ariel Castro was charged on May 8, 2013, with kidnapping the three women. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Kidnapped teens found decade later – Investigators remove evidence from the house on Seymour Avenue in Cleveland where the three women were held. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Kidnapped teens found decade later – An FBI forensics team meets outside the house where three women were held as they investigate the property. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Kidnapped teens found decade later – Cleveland Deputy Chief of Police Ed Tomba, center, speaks at a news conference to address details of the developments. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Kidnapped teens found decade later – FBI agents remove evidence from the house May 7, 2013. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Kidnapped teens found decade later – A police officer stands in front of the broken front door of the house on May 7, 2013, where the kidnapped women escaped. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Photos: Kidnapped teens rescued Kidnapped teens found decade later – Neighbor Charles Ramsey talks to media as people congratulate him on helping the kidnapped women escape on May 6, 2013. He helped knock down the door after he heard screaming inside. Hide Caption 17 of 17"We wanted to make sure we attempt to restore what these women would have received as citizens," the bill's sponsor, Democratic Rep. John Barnes, said Thursday, "They didn't have the chance to go to school, go to the doctor. ... They have been treated worse than prisoners of war."Barnes added that it is important for the public to remember that this bill isn't just for these women, but all victims like them. He said the bill has bipartisan support, and he has faith the bill will pass when it is called for vote on the House floor sometime in the next couple weeks.Knight, DeJesus and Berry were in their teens or early 20s when Castro abducted them and enslaved them in his Cleveland home for a decade until their dramatic escape and rescue in May.He had pleaded guilty to 937 counts, including murder and kidnapping, in exchange for the death penalty being taken off the table.The charges stem from his kidnapping, rape and assault of Knight, abducted in 2002; DeJesus, abducted in 2004; and Berry; abducted in 2003.Castro is the father of Berry's 6-year-old girl, DNA tests confirmed.At his trial, Knight read a statement to Castro,"You took 11 years of my life away," she said. "I spent 11 years in hell. Now, your hell is just beginning."