(CNN) Sailing the Atlantic on a perfect blue-sky day, HMS Bounty survivor Jessica Hewitt knew this would have been a beautiful moment to share with Claudene Christian.She looked down from the deck of the 125-foot Liberty Clipper to see dozens of playful dolphins swimming alongside the tall-masted sailing ship as it cut through the waves off North Carolina.As the 26-year-old held a glass bottle filled with pictures and handwritten notes, Hewitt's eyes moved across the southeast horizon toward a painful spot she knew was about 25 miles away.She couldn't help but picture what happened there aboard the HMS Bounty exactly a year ago Tuesday. The leaking, aging ship sailed into what would become the largest hurricane in generations. As the Category 1 storm churned about 100 miles off Cape Hatteras, Hurricane Sandy's battering winds and towering waves flipped the 180-foot ship sideways, spilling Hewitt and her shipmates into the water.The body of Capt. Robin Walbridge, 63, was never found. Christian, a 42-year-old rookie sailor, died after Coast Guard rescuers were unable to revive herThe street is dry and the landscaping in good shape on October 22.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The street is dry and the landscaping in good shape on October 22.A man walks through a flooded street on October 30, 2012, in Little Ferry, New Jersey.Hurricane Sandy then and now – A man walks through a flooded street on October 30, 2012, in Little Ferry, New Jersey.On October 21, the road is repaired, but some of the homes are gone.Hurricane Sandy then and now – On October 21, the road is repaired, but some of the homes are gone.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Homes built near a bridge sit destroyed in Mantoloking, New Jersey, on October 31, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The house remains standing, but unrepaired, on October 22.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Gary Silberman surveys his destroyed home on October 31, 2012, in Lindenhurst, New York,The same Little Ferry, New Jersey, street is dry on October 22.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The same Little Ferry, New Jersey, street is dry on October 22.An emergency worker uses a boat to help two people evacuate after their neighborhood was flooded on October 30, 2012, in Little Ferry, New Jersey.Hurricane Sandy then and now – An emergency worker uses a boat to help two people evacuate after their neighborhood was flooded on October 30, 2012, in Little Ferry, New Jersey.New homes are going up among vacant lots in Breezy Point on October 21.Hurricane Sandy then and now – New homes are going up among vacant lots in Breezy Point on October 21.The remains of burned homes are surrounded by water in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens on October 31, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The remains of burned homes are surrounded by water in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens on October 31, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Cars sit parked in a driveway on West Lido Boulevard on October 22.Residents of West Lido Boulevard take a break from cleaning up on October 31, 2012, in Lindenhurst, New York.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Residents of West Lido Boulevard take a break from cleaning up on October 31, 2012, in Lindenhurst, New York.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Whaleneck Drive is back to normal on October 22.A boat from the Blue Water Club blocks Whaleneck Drive in Merrick, New York, on November 1, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – A boat from the Blue Water Club blocks Whaleneck Drive in Merrick, New York, on November 1, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – South 9th Street is dry and calm on October 22.A person walks down South 9th Street in Lindenhurst, New York, as high tide, rain and winds flood area streets on October 29, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – A person walks down South 9th Street in Lindenhurst, New York, as high tide, rain and winds flood area streets on October 29, 2012.The cross is still there, but the debris is gone, on October 21.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The cross is still there, but the debris is gone, on October 21.A church cross stands at the edge of the Atlantic Ocean in Long Branch, New Jersey, on October 31, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – A church cross stands at the edge of the Atlantic Ocean in Long Branch, New Jersey, on October 31, 2012.The entrance to the underground Plaza Shops remains closed on October 22 due to unfinished renovations.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The entrance to the underground Plaza Shops remains closed on October 22 due to unfinished renovations.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Water floods the Plaza Shops in New York City on October 30, 2012.Neighbor Frank Moszczynski watches over the Hague family home, still uninhabited almost a year after Hurricane Sandy, on October 17 in Ocean Breeze.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Neighbor Frank Moszczynski watches over the Hague family home, still uninhabited almost a year after Hurricane Sandy, on October 17 in Ocean Breeze.Members of the Hague family try to salvage a washing machine from their flood-damaged home on November 1, 2012, in the Ocean Breeze area of Staten Island, New York.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Members of the Hague family try to salvage a washing machine from their flood-damaged home on November 1, 2012, in the Ocean Breeze area of Staten Island, New York.Hurricane Sandy then and now – People walk down the Rockaway beach on October 23.Hurricane Sandy then and now – A man walks along the heavily damaged Rockaway beach on November 2, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Cars are neatly parked in Rockaway on October 20.Abandoned and flooded cars are scattered in the Rockaway neighborhood of Queens on November 2, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Abandoned and flooded cars are scattered in the Rockaway neighborhood of Queens on November 2, 2012.New homes are under construction in Breezy Point on October 23.Hurricane Sandy then and now – New homes are under construction in Breezy Point on October 23.Debris and destroyed homes line a street in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, New York, on October 30, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Debris and destroyed homes line a street in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, New York, on October 30, 2012.The same street in Little Ferry, New Jersey, is dry and peaceful on October 22.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The same street in Little Ferry, New Jersey, is dry and peaceful on October 22.A man walks through a flooded street on October 30, 2012, in Little Ferry, New Jersey.Hurricane Sandy then and now – A man walks through a flooded street on October 30, 2012, in Little Ferry, New Jersey.Two people walk along the beach where the boardwalk once stood on October 20 in Rockaway.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Two people walk along the beach where the boardwalk once stood on October 20 in Rockaway.The foundations are all that remain of the historic Rockaway boardwalk in the Rockaway neighborhood in Queens, New York, on October 31, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The foundations are all that remain of the historic Rockaway boardwalk in the Rockaway neighborhood in Queens, New York, on October 31, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Traffic passes from Manhattan into the tunnel on October 22, 2013.The Hugh L. Carey (Brooklyn-Battery) Tunnel in New York City sits flooded after a tidal surge on October 30, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The Hugh L. Carey (Brooklyn-Battery) Tunnel in New York City sits flooded after a tidal surge on October 30, 2012.Traffic drives past the same garage, which is in use again, on October 22.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Traffic drives past the same garage, which is in use again, on October 22.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Rising water rushes into a parking garage on October 29, 2012 in New York City.Hurricane Sandy then and now – A cleaned-up Monmouth Beach pavilion is seen on October 22.The Monmouth Beach pavilion in Monmouth, New Jersey, is surrounded by debris on November 8, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The Monmouth Beach pavilion in Monmouth, New Jersey, is surrounded by debris on November 8, 2012.Boats are neatly stored at a marina in Highlands, New Jersey, on October 22.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Boats are neatly stored at a marina in Highlands, New Jersey, on October 22.A volunteer surveys boats piled up by Superstorm Sandy on November 1, 2012 in Highlands, New Jersey.Hurricane Sandy then and now – A volunteer surveys boats piled up by Superstorm Sandy on November 1, 2012 in Highlands, New Jersey.The spot where the cottage once stood is empty on October 22.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The spot where the cottage once stood is empty on October 22.The Princess Cottage, built in 1855, is barely standing on November 21, 2012, in Union Beach, New Jersey.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The Princess Cottage, built in 1855, is barely standing on November 21, 2012, in Union Beach, New Jersey.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Homes in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, are shown October 21.Homes in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, are surrounded by sand and debris on October 31, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Homes in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, are surrounded by sand and debris on October 31, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Two people walk past the same now-empty lot on October 23, 2013.A fire burns near destroyed homes and businesses in the Rockaway section of Queens, New York, on October 30, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – A fire burns near destroyed homes and businesses in the Rockaway section of Queens, New York, on October 30, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Cars use the tunnel on October 22.Rising water caused by Superstorm Sandy rushes into the Hugh L. Carey (formerly Brooklyn-Battery) Tunnel in New York City on October 29, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Rising water caused by Superstorm Sandy rushes into the Hugh L. Carey (formerly Brooklyn-Battery) Tunnel in New York City on October 29, 2012.The sidewalk is dry in front of the same building in Red Hook on October 23.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The sidewalk is dry in front of the same building in Red Hook on October 23.People walk past sandbags on a flooded street in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn, New York, as Hurricane Sandy moves closer to the area on October 29, 2012.Hurricane Sandy then and now – People walk past sandbags on a flooded street in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn, New York, as Hurricane Sandy moves closer to the area on October 29, 2012.Cranes are part of the repair effort on the boardwalk and amusement park in Seaside Heights on October 21.Hurricane Sandy then and now – Cranes are part of the repair effort on the boardwalk and amusement park in Seaside Heights on October 21.The boardwalk and amusement park in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, were destroyed by Superstorm Sandy on October 31, 2012. Click through to see how some of the places hit hard by Sandy have changed over the past year.Hurricane Sandy then and now – The boardwalk and amusement park in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, were destroyed by Superstorm Sandy on October 31, 2012. Click through to see how some of the places hit hard by Sandy have changed over the past year.Their deaths and the sinking of perhaps the most famous tall ship in the world spurred an investigation that could still lead to new safety regulations and criminal charges.The bottle in Hewitt's hand contained notes from fellow survivors, past Bounty crew and loved ones. Her note to Christian read, "I'm so sorry. And I miss you.""Even now, I can't really form any words other than those," Hewitt said Friday from aboard the Liberty Clipper. Her voice trembling with emotion, Hewitt said Christian's death "was such a huge loss for a lot of people. She really, really trusted us."'A part of me sank with the boat'Drawn by the romance of a freewheeling, seafaring lifestyle, Christian hoped to learn the ins and outs of a complicated three-masted square-rigger.When they met, Christian told Hewitt she'd always wanted to send off a message in a bottle, to take part in that universal time-honored tradition of the ocean."We were going to do it sometime during the passage," Hewitt remembered.Now, so close to the site and after all that happened, a message bottle seemed even more appropriate.She thought back to the wailing wind, pelting rain and fear that she and her shipmates experienced in the early morning darkness of October 29, 2012. The disaster set them on an emotional and psychological course that some of them still struggle to correct.In the minutes after the tipping ship tossed the crew into the water, Hewitt -- who was tethered to her boyfriend, Drew Salapatek -- felt herself being pulled underwater by her tether line, which had snagged on sinking debris from the ship.Hewitt realized she was about to drown.Claudene Christian tweeted this photo of herself and the Bounty four months before her death.That thought triggered a frenzy to fight and free herself from the tether. She verged on passing out and even inhaled seawater. Wriggling out of the tether just in time, she finally broke the surface and sucked in precious gasps of air. Fourteen of Bounty's 16-member crew survived the next grueling hours thanks to GPS locator beacons, life rafts and Coast Guard rescuers.The trauma left Hewitt feeling embarrassed, ashamed, angry and sad.Worst was the fear. Since the rescue, Hewitt has been afraid to sail on open water in the high seas.JUST WATCHED High-drama rescue on the high seas Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH High-drama rescue on the high seas 02:52It was quite the opposite while growing up. With roots in California, Florida and Cape Cod, Hewitt had always loved the vastness of the ocean, training for a seafaring career at the prestigious Maine Maritime Academy.What happened aboard the Bounty, she said, has left her damaged: afraid to dive underwater near big ships, fearful of sleeping below deck, especially during rough seas. When the fear comes, her heart races. Reminders of the disaster still come too often."I felt like a part of me sank with the boat. A sort of innocence was just gone."Photos: Sinking of the HMS Bounty Photos: Sinking of the HMS Bounty Sinking of the HMS Bounty – A 50-year-old replica of the 18th century square rigger HMS Bounty sank off North Carolina on October 29, 2012 during Hurricane Sandy. Sixteen crew were aboard. Fourteen were rescued. Deckhand Claudene Christian, 42, died and Capt. Robin Walbridge, 63, was never found. Hide Caption 1 of 3 Photos: Sinking of the HMS Bounty Capt. Robin Walbridge – Sailors in the tall ship community have criticized Walbridge's decision to leave safe harbor in New London, Connecticut, on a voyage to Florida while Hurricane Sandy approached. Hide Caption 2 of 3 Photos: Sinking of the HMS Bounty Claudene Christian – Bounty deckhand Claudene Christian, didn't survive the shipwreck. Before she began working on the ship in May 2012, Christian had virtually no tall ship experience and had never before sailed in a hurricane. Christian's parents filed a $90 million civil lawsuit against the ship's owners. Hide Caption 3 of 3Overhearing comments about the Bounty crew being "reckless" or that they're "loving the attention" made Hewitt mad.She said people often don't understand the lingering emotional trauma brought on by disasters, like when she's driving and suddenly the tears start welling up, forcing her to pull over. They "don't see the side like when I had to interrupt my job conducting boat tours to go cry in a Porta-Potty."Dealing with all this has been hard, Hewitt said. "I've never been that sort of person before."Despite her own struggles, Hewitt also wants to somehow transform the tragedy into a force to help others.'Use your brain and your gut'One morning in early October on the campus of the Massachusetts Maritime Academy, Hewitt walked into Admiral's Hall. The lecture room was packed with about 150 students and faculty."I was so nervous," Hewitt said. "I had no idea what to say."Nonetheless, she stood at a small podium and shared her story, offering guidance on how others might save their own lives after abandoning ship.She joked about funny things that go through some people's minds during desperate times. For some reason, she thought it was important to bring her car keys with her before the ship sank, and another crew member chose to bring his teddy bear.She also talked about how her "training clashed with what I was told" when the crew was instructed to put on their floating emergency immersion suits below deck instead of up top, where the storm raged.There are no rules except what you think will work best. Jessica Hewitt, HMS Bounty survivor"What I took from that was, in situations like that, there are no rules except what you think will work best," she said. "Sometimes, you just have to use your brain and your gut."The bottom line, she said, quoting a former instructor, is that "all you need is the will to survive."For Hewitt, speaking to the students was "a chance to say thank you and to maybe help someone else. Because other boats sink all the time, and you lose people at sea."She has grown tired of some of the questions surrounding Walbridge's decision to sail while Sandy churned.They ask, "What were you doing out there? What was the captain thinking?""I tell them, 'I can't answer that for myself, and I can't answer that for you.' "Capt. Robin Walbridge chose to sail the Bounty to Florida while Hurricane Sandy churned. His body was never found."Nobody intentionally puts themselves and their crew at risk," said academy President Rick Gurnon . "But once you've committed to a certain course of action, it's often impossible to change your mind. He made a choice. It turned out to be the wrong choice."The Coast Guard and the National Transportation Safety Board have spent the past year investigating the disaster for possible negligence and safety violations. The Coast Guard report is under review and could be released at any time. It could lead to regulation changes -- and perhaps even a recommendation that criminal charges be forwarded to prosecutors.A $90 million civil lawsuit filed by Christian's parents against the Bounty's owners is in settlement talks, a family attorney said.A return to the high seasThis past summer, Hewitt chose to fight to win back the person she was before. She needed to confront the high seas. "I really wanted to do an ocean passage and kind of conquer that fear," she said.First, she "baby-stepped it" aboard ships that didn't venture too far out to sea. Now, Hewitt works aboard the Liberty Clipper as it sails from Boston to Key West, Florida, and then to its winter port in the Bahamas, her first real high-seas journey since the sinking.This was my passion. I've lost that, at least for the time being. Jessica Hewitt, HMS Bounty survivorThe past year has cast doubt on her dream of commanding a teaching vessel that toured young sailors around the world. "This was my passion," she said. "I've lost that, at least for the time being."I can work on tugboats and other stuff, but it's just not the same."Her desire to give back may lead to a new career path as a maritime instructor.In various ways, other Bounty survivors, Hewitt says, are moving forward after the tragedy.She and fellow survivor Laura Groves seek out books by other adventurers who've overcome disaster. "It's therapeutic to read other people's struggles and not feel alone," Hewitt said.Most of Bounty's survivors have returned to the water, gaining spots on other ships, said survivor Josh Scornavacchi. He's between vessels after volunteering aboard a few tall ships in the Philadelphia area.Despite nearly drowning when the Bounty sank, the 26-year-old says, he hasn't suffered any debilitating trauma."I think about it a lot," he said, "I might get a little sad, not angry-sad but sad. It just makes me want to go out again."Most of all, he misses sailing the high seas at night, the waves, a "good squall" and his favorite, climbing up the ship's rigging.Jessica Hewitt struggles to regain her passion for the high seas. She hopes sharing her lessons will help other sailors.Aboard the Liberty Clipper -- not far from the site where the Bounty went down last year -- Hewitt held the corked bottle filled with messages to Capt. Robin Walbridge and Claudene Christian. The bottle, weighted with an iron shackle, is "the only way the message would get to them," she said.Symbolically, you might say the bottle also contained the crew's countless painful struggles and disappointments during a difficult year.She let the bottle go.It tumbled into the water, beginning a secret journey to a final destination determined by currents and tides -- and life's other infinite and random forces.