Story highlights "We want to know if protocols were followed," family attorney says"We are still trying to put the pieces together," Amy Carey-Jones saysThe sisters want to know whether police followed proper protocols"Was there some other way" to end the chase, a sister asksAmy Carey-Jones heard the news from someone, but she refused to believe it.It couldn't be her sister who authorities say rammed a barricade at the White House and then led police on a high-velocity chase through the heart of the nation's capital, ending with gunshots that left the woman dead.No, not her sister, she said. Then she turned on the television to the images of a smashed car and police.Carey-Jones said Friday on "I just saw the same clip over and over,"Carey-Jonessaid Friday on CNN's AC360 . "I did recognize the car. It just didn't seem real."So, too, is her family.JUST WATCHED Family questions police chase shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Family questions police chase shooting 06:28JUST WATCHED Incredible footage of D.C. car chase Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Incredible footage of D.C. car chase 02:46JUST WATCHED Did police use excessive force? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Did police use excessive force? 04:18JUST WATCHED Miriam Carey's history of mental illness Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Miriam Carey's history of mental illness 03:52Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – A police officer and K9 inspect the scene after a car chase and reports of gunshots fired outside of the Hart Senate Office Building on Captiol Hill on Thursday, October 3 in Washington. Police said the U.S. Capitol was put on security lockdown. Hide Caption 1 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Rescue personnel stand around a smashed U.S. Capitol Police cruiser near the Capitol. Hide Caption 2 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Police evidence markers are placed at the scene outside the U.S. Capitol.Hide Caption 3 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – First responders put a police officer on a stretcher after pulling him out of a wrecked cruiser. Hide Caption 4 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Emergency personnel put an unidentified police officer on a stretcher. Hide Caption 5 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – People take cover as gunshots are heard. Hide Caption 6 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Police respond to the shooting. Hide Caption 7 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Secret Service agents, as well as other law enforcement officers, gather at the White House entrance. Hide Caption 8 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Sen. Bernie Sanders speaks on the phone at the Capitol. Hide Caption 9 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Police secure the scene. Hide Caption 10 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Police stand guard at the Capitol. Hide Caption 11 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Law enforcement personnel move toward the incident scene. Hide Caption 12 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Police run near 2nd Street NW and Constitution Avenue in Washington on October 3. Hide Caption 13 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – A Capitol Police officer runs through the first-floor lobby in the Senate wing on Capitol Hill. Hide Caption 14 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – A view of the scene from Maryland Avenue. Hide Caption 15 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – A U.S. Capitol Police Officer stands guard in front of the Capitol. Hide Caption 16 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – A damaged U.S. Capitol Police car is seen after the car chase and reported shooting incident. Hide Caption 17 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – A Senate staffer watches as Capitol Hill Police respond to reports of gunshots fired outside of the Hart Senate Office Building near the U.S. Capitol. Hide Caption 18 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Pedestrians wait by temporary barriers after the area around the White House was put on lockdown. Hide Caption 19 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – A member of the Secret Service counterassault team walks past the entrance of the White House. Hide Caption 20 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – U.S. Capitol Police respond to reports of shots fired. Hide Caption 21 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – A police officer runs after reports of shots being fired. Hide Caption 22 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Capitol Hill Police respond to reports of gun shots. Hide Caption 23 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – A Capitol Police officer directs people away from a door on Capitol Hill. Hide Caption 24 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Sen. Jack Reed watches as a Capitol Hill police officer puts on a his body armor after the shooting was reported. Hide Caption 25 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Capitol Hill Police officers gather in response to the shooting. Hide Caption 26 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Members of the media watch as Capitol Hill Police respond to the report of shots fired. Hide Caption 27 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – People take cover as gunshots were heard. Hide Caption 28 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – A member of the U.S. Secret Service counter-assault team patrols the grounds of the White House October 3 in Washington. Hide Caption 29 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – A Secret Service vehicle joins law enforcement officers riding on horseback. Hide Caption 30 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Capitol Police respond to reports of shots fired on Capitol Hill. Hide Caption 31 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – Police gather near the scene on Capitol Hill. Hide Caption 32 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – People run for cover as police converge to the site of a shooting. Hide Caption 33 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – A man runs for cover as a police officer takes position at the site of a shooting. Hide Caption 34 of 35 Photos: Photos: Shooting on Capitol Hill Shooting on Capitol Hill – A police officer runs while reacting to a call of shots fired. Hide Caption 35 of 35"We are still trying to put the pieces together," Carey-Jones said.Neither she nor her other sister, Valarie Carey, know why Miriam Carey was in Washington, D.C. on Thursday."We will never know what Mariam was thinking in those last hours before she died, and we can only speculate. Our real concern is why (this happened) and were things done properly? Was there some other way she could have been helped so that it didn't end tragically?"Washington Metropolitan Police Chief Cathy Lanier said that officers of the U.S. Capitol Police and Secret Service acted within commonly accepted use-of-force policies and practices in reaction to an intentional series of violent acts.Although Miriam Carey was shot while driving with her baby girl, the child was uninjured. The Carey family told CNN they have been told the girl is safe."We don't know exactly where she is," said Valarie Carey.The girl has been taken into protective custody by the D.C. Child and Family Services Agency. She has been temporarily placed with a foster family, according an agency spokesperson, who declined to be identified.Miriam Carey's boyfriend reportedly told police last winter that she appeared to be delusional. The boyfriend said she claimed President Barack Obama had placed Stamford, Connecticut, where she lived, under lockdown and that her house was under electronic surveillance, said a law enforcement source familiar with the investigation. The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, was not authorized to release details to the media.Reports have surfaced following the deadly incident that Miriam Carey was being treated for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, claims the Carey family vehemently denied.A few months after her daughter was born, Miriam Carey was diagnosed with postpartum depression with psychosis, the sisters said.Postpartum psychosis can cause delusions and paranoia, according to medical experts."There wasn't a pattern. It was something that occurred suddenly," Carey-Jones said. "She seemed overwhelmed. There was a lot of stress."There was not moments of her walking around with delusions. That was not what was going on."But her sister was making progress with the help of counseling and medications.Carey-Jones said her sister recently told her that the doctors told her she didn't need the medication anymore."They tapered her off the medications, and she said she felt fine," Carey-Jones said.The sisters declined to discuss what medication Miriam Carey had taken.Despite reported claims by Miriam Carey's boyfriend that she had been delusional, the Carey sisters say they saw no signs of any problems. Authorities have not officially linked the incident to mental illness or any other factor."She has never disclosed anything of that nature, and since my sister is not here to speak for herself that statement in and of itself is very questionable," Valarie Carey said.To the Careys, their sister was a "vibrant" woman who had everything to live for -- especially her 1-year-old daughter.Miriam Carey, they said, wanted to teach."She always talked about teaching. Her field was dental hygienist, and she wanted to go further and give back in the field," Carey-Jones said.The sisters are struggling to reconcile the woman they know -- loving sister, mother and friend -- with the one who authorities say was behind the deadly chase."When you see the information reported, it doesn't add up," Carey-Jones said.The family is questioning whether shooting Miriam Carey was the only way to end the chase."We want to know if protocols were followed," family attorney Eric Sanders said on AC360."We are interested in finding out what happened. ...We are going to conduct our investigation, and we are not going to go with just what the government said."Authorities have acknowledged no shots were fired from Carey's black Infiniti as it raced through the streets."My sister just totally didn't deserve this," said Valarie Carey, who was a New York police officer. "There are going to be a lot of different stories being told by people that claim they may know her. They don't. She was a law-abiding citizen. She had no political agenda."