Story highlights First on-screen "Jack Ryan" Alec Baldwin: Clancy was "a real gentleman"His 1984 novel "The Hunt for Red October" propelled him to fame, fortune and statusClancy's publisher says the author died in Baltimore on Tuesday"Command Authority," his last book, is due to be published in DecemberSpy thriller writer Tom Clancy, whose best-selling books "The Hunt for Red October" and "Patriot Games" became blockbuster films, has died, his publisher said Wednesday. He was 66.Clancy's publisher, the Penguin Group, said the author died in Baltimore on Tuesday. The written statement did not indicate the cause of death.Clancy's 1984 novel "The Hunt for Red October" propelled him to fame, fortune and status as a favorite storyteller of the American military. Sean Connery and Alec Baldwin brought the Cold War drama to life in the big screen in 1990."Spending time with Tom prior to shooting was the best part of that whole experience for me," Baldwin said Wednesday. "Tom was smart, a great story teller and a real gentleman."Harrison Ford took the big screen role of CIA analyst Jack Ryan in "Patriot Games and "Clear and Present Danger." Ben Affleck was cast as Ryan for "The Sum of All Fears."JUST WATCHED Tom Clancy is dead at age 66 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tom Clancy is dead at age 66 02:45Photos: Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist Photos: Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist – Tom Clancy, right, tours the U.S. battle cruiser Yorktown off the coast of Norfolk, Virginia, in 1988. Clancy died Tuesday at the age of 66, his publisher announced. Hide Caption 1 of 9 Photos: Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist – Clancy poses for a photo in 1985. His 1984 novel "The Hunt for Red October" brought Clancy into the spotlight. Hide Caption 2 of 9 Photos: Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist – Clancy relaxes in his home library in Baltimore in 1988. Hide Caption 3 of 9 Photos: Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist – Clancy takes in the Chesapeake Bay in Huntington, Maryland, in 1989. Hide Caption 4 of 9 Photos: Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist – Clancy poses with his pistol during target practice in his private underground pistol range in Maryland in 1989. Hide Caption 5 of 9 Photos: Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist – Clancy poses for a photo in 1996. Some of his books went on to become films, including "Patriot Games" and "The Sum of All Fears." Hide Caption 6 of 9 Photos: Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist – Clancy, here in 1996, also inspired the video games "Rainbow Six," "Ghost Recon" and "Splinter Cell." Hide Caption 7 of 9 Photos: Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist – Clancy announces his purchase of the Minnesota Vikings in 1998. The deal ended up falling through for undisclosed reasons. Hide Caption 8 of 9 Photos: Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist Tom Clancy: The Cold War's novelist – Clancy listens to questions during a discussion hosted by the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington in 2004. Hide Caption 9 of 9JUST WATCHED 1991: Clancy's fame didn't change him Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 1991: Clancy's fame didn't change him 02:50"I'm deeply saddened by Tom's passing," said Penguin executive David Shanks, who worked with Clancy on each of his novels, quoted in the company's statement. "He was a consummate author, creating the modern-day thriller, and was one of the most visionary storytellers of our time. I will miss him dearly and he will be missed by tens of millions of readers worldwide.""Command Authority," his last book, is due to be published by G.P. Putnam's Sons in December, the company said. Putnam is an imprint of the Penguin Group."It was an honor to know Tom Clancy and to work on his fantastic books," said Ivan Held, president and publisher of G.P. Putnam's Sons. "He was ahead of the news curve and sometimes frighteningly prescient. To publish a Tom Clancy book was a thrill every time. He will be missed by everyone at Putnam and Berkley, and by his fans all over the world."A Baltimore-born former insurance agent, Clancy was known for writing meticulous thrillers focusing on political intrigue and military tactics and technology.Seventeen of his 28 books appeared on the New York Times best-sellers list, according to his website. Many of them reached the No. 1 spot.His writings also provided the inspiration for the "Rainbow Six," "Ghost Recon" and "Splinter Cell," video game series.His writing gained him a loyal following within the armed forces in the United States and abroad, giving him inside access that frequently informed the plots of his books. But in a 2003 CNN interview, Clancy said he was always careful not to reveal classified information or sensitive details of how the elite troops he often wrote about operated."I'll never decide for commercial reasons to put something in that endangers our national security. You just can't do that," he said in a 2003 CNN interview. "There was one thing, I discussed with a friend of mine in the Royal Navy. I told him a story I knew, and he said, 'Well, Tom, you may never repeat that, as long as you live.' And I haven't."