Story highlights Newark mayor conducts marriages of several same-sex couplesA court denied the state's request to temporarily prevent such marriages last weekNew Jersey has allowed same-sex civil unions since 2007Marsha Shapiro and Louise Walpin married each other for the third time early Monday. But this time, it was especially memorable: They were among the first to tie the knot after same-sex marriage became legal in New JerseyA rabbi first "married" the couple in 1992 in a Jewish ceremony. They married a second time in New York in August 2012 after same-sex marriage became legal there.The third time was just after midnight Thursday in the Garden State. The couple helped pave the way there through a 2011 lawsuit that brought about the change. New Jersey now becomes the 14th state to recognize gay marriages.Shapiro and Walpin were married in the home of state Sen. Raymond Lesniak, who championed same-sex marriage in the legislature.Throughout the state other gay couples exchanged vows in early morning ceremonies.Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Andrea Taylor, left, and Sallee Taylor kiss during their wedding in West Hollywood, California, on Monday, July 1, as Sallee Taylor's daughter Grace Meier, right, looks on. The city of West Hollywood offered civil marriage ceremonies for same-sex couples free of charge Monday. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – City officials who will perform same-sex marriages are sworn in before conducting wedding ceremonies in West Hollywood on July 1. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Jose Guerrero, left, and Patrick Rodriguez chat before their wedding ceremony in West Hollywood on July 1. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Same-sex couples kiss on the steps of the the Old Orange County Courthouse in Santa Ana, California, on July 1. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Naomi Hendrix, right, and Rio Waller exchange wedding vows in a small garden across from the Fresno County Clerk's office in California on June 1. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Naomi Hendrix, right, and Rio Waller kiss right after they are pronounced married in Fresno on June 1. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Faith Kassan, left, and her partner, Jennifer Ehrman, kiss before their wedding ceremony in West Hollywood on July 1. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Cynthia Wides, right, and Elizabeth Carey file for a marriage certificate at City Hall in San Francisco on Saturday, June 29. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Diane Meier, left, and Julie Thompson walk down the grand staircase at San Francisco City Hall after getting married on June 29. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Ky Choi, left, and Ashlee Meyer kiss before getting married on June 29. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Sandy Stier, left, exchanges wedding vows with Kris Perry during a ceremony presided over by California Attorney General Kamala Harris at City Hall in San Francisco on Friday, June 28. Stier and Perry were two of the four lead plaintiffs in the U.S. Supreme Court case that overturned California's same-sex marriage ban. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – A couple come out of City Hall after obtaining their marriage license in San Francisco on Friday, June 28. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – A chorus sings for newlyweds at City Hall in San Francisco on June 28. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Jeff Zarillo, left, and Paul Katami, plaintiffs in the California case against Proposition 8, react after they are married by Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa at Los Angeles City Hall on June 28. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Couples fill out license applications as they wait in line at the San Francisco City Hall on June 28. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Stefanie Berks, left, touches her pregnant partner, Daisy Boyd, before their marriage at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau in New York on June 28. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Jen Rainin, left, laughs as her wife, Frances Stevens, holds up their dog, Punum, after they were married in San Fransisco on June 28. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Jeff Foote, left, and Cosgrove Norstadt kiss during their wedding on San Francisco on June 28. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Stefanie Berks, center, and Daisy Boyd, right, view their marriage certificate with a friend after their ceremony in the east chapel at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau on June 28. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Suzanne Hufft, left, and Val Robb exchange vows as they are married at San Francisco City Hall on June 28. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – U.S. Air Force Senior Airman Shyla Smith, right, and Courtney Burdeshaw hold hands in the west chapel during their wedding ceremony at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau on Thursday, June 27. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Same-sex weddings after rulings Same-sex weddings after Supreme Court rulings – Smith and Burdeshaw hold hands while waiting to get married at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau on June 27. Hide Caption 22 of 22Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Julia Tate, left, kisses her wife, Lisa McMillin, in Nashville, Tennessee, after the reading the results of the Supreme Court rulings on same-sex marriage on Wednesday, June 26. The high court struck down key parts of the Defense of Marriage Act and cleared the way for same-sex marriages to resume in California by rejecting an appeal on the state's Proposition 8 Hide Caption 1 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Jeff Zarrillo, center, and Paul Katami, right, plaintiffs in the California case against Proposition 8, wipe away tears after departing the Supreme Court in Washington. Katami proposed to Zarrillo on national news after the ruling. Hide Caption 2 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – The New Yorker's next issue features artwork by Jack Hunter in reaction to the Supreme Court's rulings. Hide Caption 3 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Erin Raskauskas Jr. shows off the autograph he got from attorney David Boies on a copy of the Proposition 8 ruling outside of the Supreme Court in Washington. Hide Caption 4 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Same-sex marriage proponent Ryan Clarke reads news updates on the rulings outside of the Supreme Court. Hide Caption 5 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – With the Capitol in the background, the Gay Men's Choir of Washington performs outside of the Supreme Court in Washington. Hide Caption 6 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Richelle Spanover, right, celebrates at the Stonewall Inn in New York after the Supreme Court rulings. The Stonewall riots in 1969 sparked the modern gay rights movement. Hide Caption 7 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Chris Roe, left, and Roby Chavez celebrate while holding their soon-to-be-adopted children as the ruling is announced in San Francisco. Hide Caption 8 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Defense of Marriage Act plaintiff Edith Windsor speaks at a press conference at the LGBT Center in New York after hearing the Supreme Court rulings. Hide Caption 9 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Donna Red Wing, executive director of One Iowa, reacts to the Supreme Court rulings from Des Moines, Iowa. Hide Caption 10 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee, second from left, and Phyllis Lyon, center, celebrate at the mayor's office in San Francisco. Hide Caption 11 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – John Lewis, left, gets a kiss from his partner Stuart Gaffney at City Hall in San Francisco. Hide Caption 12 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – A crowd of people outside the Supreme Court in Washington react to the rulings. Hide Caption 13 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Supporters of same-sex marriage cheer at City Hall in San Francisco. Hide Caption 14 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – People in the crowd embrace outside the Supreme Court in Washington. Hide Caption 15 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Sue Rochman, center, and Robin Romdalvik celebrate with their son, Maddox Rochman-Romdalvik, at City Hall in San Francisco. Hide Caption 16 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – California Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom speaks during a rally in San Francisco after the Supreme Court decisions were announced. Hide Caption 17 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Patrons of the Stonewall Inn in New York gather to hear the Supreme Court rulings. Hide Caption 18 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Therese Stewart, the lead attorney on the Proposition 8 case in California, speaks at City Hall in San Francisco after the Supreme Court paved the way for same-sex marriage in the state. Hide Caption 19 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – A couple celebrates at City Hall in San Francisco. Hide Caption 20 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Michael Knaapen, left, and his husband, John Becker, react to the rulings in Washington. Hide Caption 21 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – American University students Sharon Burk, left, and Molly Wagner embrace outside the Supreme Court. Hide Caption 22 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – A couple celebrates at City Hall in San Francisco after hearing the Supreme Court struck down parts of the Defense of Marriage Act. Hide Caption 23 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – A gay rights supporter waves a flag outside City Hall in San Francisco ahead of the Supreme Court decisions on June 26. Hide Caption 24 of 24JUST WATCHED Christie withdraws appeal on gay marriage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Christie withdraws appeal on gay marriage 00:57JUST WATCHED Obama: Gay marriage 'should be legal' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama: Gay marriage 'should be legal' 02:25At the Newark City Hall, Mayor Cory Booker married seven couples, two of them heterosexual. He had refused to conduct any marriage ceremonies until same-sex marriages were legal in the state."It is officially past midnight," Booker said. "Marriage is equal in New Jersey."High court clears the wayOn Friday, the New Jersey Supreme Court denied the state's request to temporarily prevent such marriages.Troy Stevenson, executive director of the gay rights group Garden State Equality, said last week that the high court's decision means "the door is open for love, commitment and equality under the law.""This is a huge victory for New Jersey's same-sex couples and their families," added Hayley Gorenberg, deputy legal director of gay rights group Lambda Legal and the organization's lead attorney on the case. "Take out the champagne glasses -- wedding bells will soon be ringing in New Jersey!"That enthusiasm was not shared by everyone."It is extremely disappointing that the New Jersey Supreme Court has allowed the ruling of an activist judge to stand pending its appeal through the court system," said Brian Brown, president of the National Organization for Marriage, last week. "All in all, today's ruling is another sad chapter in watching our courts usurp the rights of voters to determine issues like this for themselves."Gov. Chris Christie's administration appealed, and asked the court to delay, a lower court's September 27 order that the state must allow same-sex couples to marry beginning October 21, rather than give them the label "civil union."The appeal will be heard in January. But the state Supreme Court on Friday declined to delay the September order in the meantime, writing that "the state has not shown a reasonable probability that it will succeed on the merits" of the appeal."When a party presents a clear case of ongoing unequal treatment, and asks the court to vindicate constitutionally protected rights, a court may not sidestep its obligation to rule for an indefinite amount of time," the 20-page decision read. "Under those circumstances, courts do not have the option to defer."Where sex-same marriage is legalNew Jersey has recognized civil unions between same-sex couples since 2007, after the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that the state must allow same-sex couples all the rights and benefits of marriage. As far as state rights and benefits went, civil unions and marriages differed only in label.Three states offer civil unions, but not marriage, to same-sex couples. They are Colorado, Hawaii and Illinois.Same-sex marriage is now legal in 14 U.S states -- California, Connecticut, Delaware, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington -- as well as the District of Columbia.Same-sex marriage is banned in every state not mentioned above, except for New Mexico, which has no laws banning or allowing it.