Story highlights The victim's brother says he would oppose Skakel's releaseSkakel seeks a bond less than $500,000 cash or suretySkakel's motion says he won't flee and he has close contact with a 14-year-old sonThe prosecutor plans to appeal ruling giving Skakel a new trialA day after he won a new trial in the murder of a 15-year-old girl, Michael Skakel, the nephew of Robert and Ethel Kennedy, filed a bond motion Thursday asking he be released from prison pending a second trial's outcome.The motion asks the court to set a bond in an amount "no greater than $500,000 cash or surety."Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Saoirse Kennedy Hill died in August 2019 at the family home in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts. Her mother, Courtney Kennedy Hill, was one of the 11 children of the late Robert F. Kennedy and his human rights activist wife, Ethel Kennedy. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies On July 16, 1999, John F. Kennedy Jr. and his wife, Carolyn Bessette-Kennedy, died in a plane crash off the coast of Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts. Her sister was also aboard the plane. Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – Mary Kennedy, right, from whom Robert F. Kennedy Jr. filed for divorce in 2010, was found dead on May 16, 2012. A medical examiner said she died of asphyxiation due to hanging. She was 52. Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kara Kennedy, daughter of Ted Kennedy, died of a heart attack in 2011 after her daily workout. Seen here, she speaks at her father's funeral in 2009. Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Doctors diagnosed Ted Kennedy with a malignant brain tumor in 2008 and he had surgery the same year. He died more than a year later at age 77. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – Michael Kennedy, one of RFK's 11 children, died in a skiing accident in Aspen, Colorado, in 1997. The father of three had suffered an onslaught of negative publicity over an alleged affair with a family babysitter. Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – David Kennedy, another son of RFK, died in 1984 of a drug overdose in a hotel after being ousted from the family vacation home in Palm Beach. Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies In 1973, Ted Kennedy's 12-year-old son Edward Jr. lost a leg to bone cancer. Kennedy is seen here skiing with his father in 1974. Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – Joe Kennedy, the eldest son of RFK, was involved in a 1973 car accident that left a female passenger paralyzed for life. He later served as a Massachusetts congressman and considered a bid for governor but decided against it, citing family troubles. Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – Sen. Ted Kennedy drove a car off a bridge on Massachusetts' Chappaquiddick Island after a party in 1969. Aide Mary Jo Kopechne died in the accident. He is shown wearing a neck brace at her funeral. Controversy over the incident effectively ended his presidential aspirations. Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies While campaigning for the Democratic Party's presidential nomination, Sen. Robert F. Kennedy was assassinated in June 1968. Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – In 1964, Ted Kennedy suffered a broken back when his private plane crashed in Southampton, Massachusetts. Indiana Sen. Birch Bayh also survived the crash, but the pilot and one of Kennedy's aides were killed. Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies President John F. Kennedy was assassinated during a motorcade in Dallas on November 22, 1963. He was 46. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies At just 28, Kathleen Kennedy died in a plane crash in 1948. She had married William John Robert Cavendish, the Marquess of Hartington, who was killed in World War II. Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Joseph P. Kennedy Jr., the eldest son of Joseph and Rose Kennedy, died at 29 in a plane crash during World War II. Hide Caption 15 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies President Kennedy's sister, Rosemary Kennedy (center), had part of her brain removed in 1941 in a relatively new procedure known as a prefrontal lobotomy. The family had long described her as "intellectually slow." The operation only worsened her condition and she was institutionalized until her death in 2005 at age 86. Hide Caption 16 of 16Skakel, 53, who has spent more than a decade behind bars, is accused of killing Martha Moxley with a golf club in 1975. Twenty-seven years after her death, he was convicted and sentenced to 20 years to life in prison.For years, Skakel fought unsuccessfully for his conviction to be overturned. On Wednesday, a Connecticut judge ordered Skakel's conviction to be set aside , ruling that the defense in the 2002 trial had been inadequate.State's Attorney John Smriga said prosecutors planned to appeal the ruling.JUST WATCHED What evidence incriminated Skakel? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What evidence incriminated Skakel? 03:00JUST WATCHED Michael Skakel could walk free soon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Michael Skakel could walk free soon 06:43JUST WATCHED Moxley's mom: Skakel convicted himself Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Moxley's mom: Skakel convicted himself 03:49JUST WATCHED RFK Jr. accuses CNN analyst of bias Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH RFK Jr. accuses CNN analyst of bias 04:11Skakel poses no flight risk and has maintained strong ties to the community throughout his imprisonment, his motion argued.Skakel has a 14-year-old son "with whom he maintains close contact and has remained actively involved in his rearing, to the extent possible from prison," the motion said.His continued incarceration isn't "necessary to protect" the public or the Moxley family, which now resides outside of Connecticut, court papers said.Skakel would agree to electronic monitoring upon release from prison, the motion said.Prior to his trial, Skakel voluntarily surrendered to authorities in January 2000, and when he was released on bond after that arrest, "he never failed to attend court," the motion said.John Moxley, Martha Moxley's brother, told CNN Thursday that he still believes that Skakel is guilty and would be opposed to his release from prison."My mother and I wouldn't be in favor of bail, but you know, the reality is, we have no control over it," Moxley told CNN's "AC360.""And I can't let myself get consumed, and my mother's not going to get consumed, by stuff that's out of our control. ... If it comes to a trial, we'll be there supporting the state of Connecticut."Moxley's body was found in 1975 after a night of partying with Skakel, his older brother Tommy and other teenagers in an affluent gated community in Greenwich, Connecticut.Authorities said she was bludgeoned and stabbed to death; a broken golf club was found near her body.The case languished for more than two decades.A series of books on the high-profile crime renewed interest, leading to new tips and a new suspect in January 2000: Skakel, who was 15 at the time of the killing.Skakel has always proclaimed his innocence.But a jury convicted Skakel of murder on June 7, 2002. He is behind bars at the MacDougall-Walker Correctional Institution in Suffield, Connecticut.