If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Feeling a little put off by Black Friday and Cyber Monday? Then, today is your day. It's Giving Tuesday , a day to raise funds for charitable causes . Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia investigationPaul Manafort violated his plea agreement with the Justice Department by lying to the FBI and special counsel Robert Mueller's office two months after he started cooperating in the Russia probe, prosecutors said in a stunning court filing . So, the deal that Manafort, the one-time chairman for Donald Trump's 2016 campaign, had is now "breached," and both sides now request that Manafort's case move to sentencing. Manafort, in the court filing, says he doesn't agree with prosecutors' claim that he lied. So, what is he accused of being untruthful about? Prosecutors say Manafort lied "on a variety of subject matters," and Mueller's office says it will provide details at a later date.2. General MotorsThe shockwaves are reverberating from Detroit to Washington after GM announced it will s hut down five North American factories and cut 15% of its salaried workers. This major restructuring of the company means GM will stop making sedans the car-buying public no longer wants -- like the Chevrolet Volt, Impala and Cruze and the Buick LaCrosse -- and focus on SUVs, hatchbacks, crossovers and trucks. The carmaker, which saw decent earnings last quarter , is also making a big bet on new technologies, as it eyes Silicon Valley's push into self-driving cars. The moves will save GM $6 billion a year by the end of 2020. But this will also cost 8,000 salaried workers their jobs. About 6,000 hourly workers will either lose their jobs or be reassigned to other plants.GM is getting rid of these 6 carsGM is getting rid of these 6 cars 01:30GM is getting rid of these 6 cars3. Midterm electionsJUST WATCHED Trump campaigns for controversial candidate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump campaigns for controversial candidate 01:214. FacebookJUST WATCHED Zuckerberg: I'm not stepping down as Facebook chair Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Zuckerberg: I'm not stepping down as Facebook chair 02:155. Mars landerAfter seven months in space -- and " seven minutes of terror " -- NASA's InSight lander touched down on Mars . InSight will spend two years studying Mars' interior, where the building blocks below the planet's surface recorded its history. The landing was watched around the world, and the folks back at mission control celebrated with the coolest handshake in scientific history . The terrifying seven minutes was how long it took InSight to set itself down on the Red Planet. During the tricky maneuver, InSight slowed from 12,300 mph to 5 mph before it gently landed on the surface.JUST WATCHED All eyes on Mars as NASA lander touched down Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH All eyes on Mars as NASA lander touched down 02:17BREAKFAST BROWSEWord of the yearThe word " misinformation " has been around since the late 1500s, but it seems like it was tailor-made for 2018.JUST WATCHED Misinfo is social media's 'chronic condition' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Misinfo is social media's 'chronic condition' 03:55Tax timeWant to pay your taxes with a (made-up) virtual currency? Then head to Ohio, the first state that'll let businesses pay taxes with BitcoinPolice escortFirst, the state trooper pulled the North Carolina couple over. Then, he helped deliver their baby right on the side of the highway.Pirates of the front porchChristmastime means good cheer, online shopping ... and porch pirates. Here's how to keep them from stealing your packages and ruining your holiday.JUST WATCHED Thwarting 'porch pirates' from stealing holiday packages Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Thwarting 'porch pirates' from stealing holiday packages 04:47TODAY'S QUOTE"Everything I worked my whole life to achieve, I kind of ruined it all through Twitter."Former child star Amanda Bynes, who opened up to Paper magazine about her downfallJUST WATCHED Amanda Bynes' 2014 Twitter rant Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Amanda Bynes' 2014 Twitter rant 02:39A SHADOW OVER EUROPEJUST WATCHED CNN poll reveals anti-Semitism is alive and well in Europe Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN poll reveals anti-Semitism is alive and well in Europe 01:57AND FINALLYJust looking