If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.No matter what happens today in the elections, remember that we're all still on the same team. And by all means, go out there and vote! Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Midterm electionsOne more thing: Did you vote in the midterms (or will you today)? We'd like you to send us a pic of you (or you and the kids, or you and whomever) with your "I Voted" sticker for our roundup of "50 votes, 50 stickers and you." Please email it with your name, city -- and whatever else you'd like to add -- to: andrea.diaz@turner.com. Make your state's name the subject line.2. CameroonOfficials in Cameroon are desperately searching for 79 boys and girls kidnapped by armed men from a school. The men entered the Presbyterian Secondary School in Bamenda, in the country's Northwest region, overwhelmed a guard and forced him to take them to the sleeping children. The men tried to take the students away in a school bus, but the driver pretended there was something wrong with the vehicle, so the men took off with the children on foot. A school spokesman said the kidnappers might be English-speaking secessionists who want independence from Cameroon's largely French-influenced government.JUST WATCHED Protests in Cameroon turn deadly (2016) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Protests in Cameroon turn deadly (2016) 01:203. USA GymnasticsThe US Olympic Committee has had enough. After watching USA Gymnastics struggle to recover from the sex abuse scandal involving former team doctor Larry Nassar, the committee wants to p ull USA Gymnastics' status as the sport's governing body. USOC CEO Sarah Hirshland has offered USA Gymnastics the option of surrendering its status voluntarily. USA Gymnastics said it was "evaluating the best path forward" but didn't indicate if it would challenge the USOC's actions.JUST WATCHED Reporter: Spotlight taken away from athletes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Reporter: Spotlight taken away from athletes 01:574. AmazonAmazon may be throwing the cities competing to be the home of its next headquarters a big ol' curve ball. Instead of picking one city to house HQ2, the tech behemoth reportedly is going to pick two . So, those 50,000 high-paying jobs promised with the $5 billion project would be split between two locations. The latest word on the street , as they say, is that northern Virginia, Dallas and New York City are still in the running to land HQ2, among 20 finalists . Amazon's reportedly doing the split to make sure it can recruit enough talent. The two winners will be announced by the end of the year, Amazon says.JUST WATCHED Bezos is picking HQ2 location with his 'heart' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bezos is picking HQ2 location with his 'heart' 01:235. SpaceSo, a long, cigar-shaped object zipped through our solar system last year. Scientists struggled to explain what it was. Asteroid? Comet? Now, some researchers at Harvard are offering a startling theory: alien space probe . Say what? In a new paper , they say the elongated dark-red object, which they call Oumuamua, might have an "artificial origin." The object is 10 times as long as it is wide and travels at 196,000 mph. "Oumuamua may be a fully operational probe sent intentionally to Earth vicinity by an alien civilization," the paper reads. If you're fearing an "Independence Day"-style invasion, calm down. Oumuamua left our solar system in January.JUST WATCHED Scientists find interstellar object in solar system Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Scientists find interstellar object in solar system 01:27BREAKFAST BROWSELady luckShe won half that $687 million Powerball prize right after she bought a house. Guess she'll have a decent budget to do an extreme home makeover.Gimme a (customized) breakLike Kit Kats? Then hop a flight to Japan to visit the KitKat Chocolatory, where you can trick out your fave chocolate treat with just about anything you want.Photos: Osaka store makes customized KitKats Customized candies: A new Nestle shop in Osaka, Japan, the KitKat Chocolatory takes KitKat obsession to a whole new level with a customizable experience. Hide Caption 1 of 5 Photos: Osaka store makes customized KitKats Osaka, Japan: The shop is located in the Namba railway station in central Osaka. Hide Caption 2 of 5 Photos: Osaka store makes customized KitKats Top it off: You can coat your candies in flavors like white chocolate or matcha. After that, you can top them with dried fruit, nuts and other garnishes. Hide Caption 3 of 5 Photos: Osaka store makes customized KitKats The finishing touch: After making your KitKats, the sweets are blasted with liquid nitrogen. Hide Caption 4 of 5 Photos: Osaka store makes customized KitKats Takeaway: The chocolates are then packaged easily for you to take home, whether by land, sea or air. Hide Caption 5 of 5Good customersWhen the doughnut shop owner puts the goodies out, his customers buy out his inventory in just hours so he can go take care of his sick wife.What you really, really wantIf all you really, really wanted was a Spice Girls reunion , today's your lucky day. The '90s hitmakers are going back on tour -- but without Posh Spice.JUST WATCHED Victoria Beckham's viral Spice Girls dance Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Victoria Beckham's viral Spice Girls dance 00:51HAPPENING LATERBinge-worthyWant to catch up on "Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown" or "This Is Life with Lisa Ling"? Now's your chance: Starting today at 5 p.m. ET, select CNN Original Series will be available for free on CNNgo for a limited time.JUST WATCHED Meet the fixers of 'Parts Unknown' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meet the fixers of 'Parts Unknown' 01:41TODAY'S QUOTE"Jesus don't like ugly."Oprah Winfrey, responding to racist robocalls impersonating her in GeorgiaJUST WATCHED Hear racist robocall targeting Abrams, Oprah Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hear racist robocall targeting Abrams, Oprah 01:23TODAY'S NUMBER57That's how many miles a runaway train traveled across Australia before it was deliberately derailed. Thankfully, no one was hurt.AND FINALLYTeamwork makes the dream workThis crafty pair doesn't have to wait for anyone to bring them a bowl of water. (Click to view.)