If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.It's not December yet, but it's not too early to start a best-of-the-year list. Here are our fave travel photos of the year (so far). And here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia investigationPresident Donald Trump told special counsel Robert Mueller in writing that Roger Stone did not tell him about WikiLeaks, nor was he told about the 2016 Trump Tower meeting between his son, campaign officials and a Russian lawyer promising dirt on Hillary Clinton, according to two sources familiar with the matter.One source described the President's answers without providing any direct quotes and said the President made clear he was answering to the best of his recollection. This is the first insight into how the President responded to the Mueller team's written questions -- a key unknown as Mueller aims to wrap up his investigation and prepare his final report.2. EconomyThe Fed indicated it might slow down its interest rate hikes. Wall Street loves that kind of talk. The Dow surged 618 points after Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said the Fed wouldn't risk cooling down the red-hot economy with aggressive interest rate hikes next year. Powell said rates remain relatively low and are just below what many economists consider "neutral for the economy -- that is, neither speeding up nor slowing down growth." Despite the cheery financial news, there are three lights blinking red about the economy that we need to pay attention to: borrowing, housing and unemployment.JUST WATCHED Citi strategist: Fed message is no reason to party Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Citi strategist: Fed message is no reason to party 02:263. Murder confessionsSerial killers have been known to inflate the number of people they say they've killed, for the notoriety. Samuel Little, a 78-year-old imprisoned killer, has been telling the FBI similar things recently. But the FBI believes him. Little claims to have killed about 90 people between 1970 and 2005. If that's accurate, Little would be the most prolific serial killer in US history. Investigators have already confirmed 34 killings -- all over the country. They say Little targeted marginalized and vulnerable women who were often involved in prostitution or addicted to drugs and that he remembered great detail about the killings.JUST WATCHED He could be connected to 90 slayings Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH He could be connected to 90 slayings 01:014. Life expectancyFrom 2016 to 2017, life expectancy in the US ticked down again . The leading causes, once again, are more deaths from drug overdoses and suicides. The estimate of how long a person born in 2017 can expect to live in the United States is 78.6 years, a decrease of 0.1 year from 2016, a trio of new government reports say. The troubling stats should be "a wake-up call" for the nation, says CDC Director Robert Redfield. Overdose deaths hit a new high last year, topping 70,000, while the suicide rate increased by 3.7%, the CDC's National Center for Health Statistics reports.Photos: The countries where people live longest Italy – The Italian diet, combined with a climate that promotes outdoor activity, is thought to play an important role in healthy aging among Italians. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: The countries where people live longest Japan – Japan has the longest-living population in the world, with the average 60-year-old going on to live until age 86. Experts say this is due to good diets, active lifestyles and supportive family structure. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: The countries where people live longest Spain – Spain's version of the Mediterranean diet combined with strong family networks is believed to enhance life expectancy among its population. In Spain, average life expectancy at age 60 is 85. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: The countries where people live longest France – France also tied second with the other countries in southern Europe with, those over 60 living to the age of 85, on average. Pictured, a couple sit on a bench in Cannes. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: The countries where people live longest Andorra – Diet and outdoor lifestyle in Andorra help to keep the country's elderly population healthy. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: The countries where people live longest Australia – The universal health care system in Australia, combined with Australians' outdoor lifestyle, help people live longer, according to experts. Pictured, a war veteran during ANZAC Day. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: The countries where people live longest New Zealand – The outdoor lifestyle and health infrastructure are credited with keeping New Zealanders healthy and living longer. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: The countries where people live longest Switzerland – Switzerland's wealth and health care system are credited with boosting the nation's longevity. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: The countries where people live longest Singapore – After Japan, Singapore has Asia's highest life expectancy at age 60. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: The countries where people live longest Monaco – The extensive wealth of the residents of Monaco is likely to be the main factor supporting health in the elderly. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: The countries where people live longest San Marino – Like many of the other long-lived countries, San Marino's strong economy and infrastructure are thought to be the reason for its long-lived residents. Hide Caption 11 of 115. Drinking waterJUST WATCHED Dirty Water: Danger from the Tap Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dirty Water: Danger from the Tap 28:55BREAKFAST BROWSEDoggone itSo, maybe dogs aren't as smart as we thought they were. Hey, don't get mad at us: Blame this storyPaying respectsThe Vietnam vet died with no family members to attend his funeral. So, hundreds of strangers showed up to pay their respects.Travel suiteWhat happens when you combine a hotel room with a self-driving vehicle? Possibly the future of travelJUST WATCHED A hotel room that travels with you Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A hotel room that travels with you 01:17Best of the blueHAPPENING LATEROn the road againPresident Trump leaves later today for Argentina to attend the G20 summit , the kind of meeting of global leaders that he loves to hate. While there, he is due to meet up with Russian President Vladimir Putin.JUST WATCHED What to expect from US and China at G20 summit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What to expect from US and China at G20 summit 02:20A SHADOW OVER EUROPEConstruction on an $18 million Holocaust museum in Budapest was completed three years ago. But it's never opened. Hungarian Jews and international scholars fear Hungary's right-wing government is to blame. They think the government is trying to whitewash the country's role in the Holocaust.JUST WATCHED Hungary's top diplomat: Let us reject multiculturalism Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hungary's top diplomat: Let us reject multiculturalism 23:30TODAY'S NUMBER$3 millionThat's how much India and billionaire Richard Branson are offering to reinvent air conditioning . Air conditioners are bad for the environment, yet their use is predicted to explode over the next few decades.JUST WATCHED How climate change could affect your wallet Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How climate change could affect your wallet 01:30TODAY'S QUOTE"I know I am not completely well ..."Bruce Springsteen, opening up to Esquire about his battles with depressionAND FINALLYArmed origami