If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Even in the darkest of times, acts of kindness shine bright. In Thousand Oaks, California, hundreds of people lined up to donate blood after the mass shooting there. Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. California bar shootingIt was supposed to be a night of fun. It ended in absolute horror. The victims in the mass shooting at the Borderline Bar & Grill in Thousand Oaks, California, were part of the huge crowd line dancing and having a great time at the bar's college night. Then a man dressed in a black trench coat and glasses, later identified as Ian David Long opened fire . When it was all over 12 people, including a sheriff's deputy, were dead.This latest mass shooting feels especially painful because many of the victims were so young . College students just trying to enjoy a night out. Grief stricken parents talked of desperately searching for their children , only to learn their loved ones had perished in the violence. And the nation is left, once again, searching for answers to gun violence after witnessing a fourth shooting in just two weeks.The shooting is not the only calamity that folks in the area are dealing with. Parts of a town right next to Thousand Oaks had to be evacuated because of a brush fire burning through Ventura County . The blaze has charred almost 10,000 acres so far. And that's not the only wildfire burning in the state. About 40,000 people in Northern California evacuated to get away from the fast-growing Camp Fire, which has burned 20,000 acres in Butte County.2. Russia investigationMatthew Whitaker, the acting attorney general, probably won't recuse himself from the Russia investigation that he's now overseeing. That's a problem for a lot of people, who say his past comments -- in which he expressed deep skepticism about the probe -- should disqualify him from leading the investigation. Others say Whitaker's appointment is unconstitutional because he hasn't been confirmed by the Senate. Several senior White House officials told CNN they're worried the backlash might jeopardize Whitaker's chances of staying in the job.JUST WATCHED Sources: Whitaker has no plans to recuse himself Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sources: Whitaker has no plans to recuse himself 02:353. Midterm electionsYou thought the 2018 midterm elections were over? Bless your heart. Just like the 2016 presidential election, this one might be with us for awhile. Both high-profile races in Florida -- for governor and senator -- might be headed for recounts as the margins tighten. Gov. Rick Scott, who is the GOP candidate in the Senate race, accused Democrats of trying to "steal" the election . Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson, Scott's opponent, said the governor's actions appeared to be "politically motivated." Meanwhile, in Arizona's Senate race, Democrat Kyrsten Sinema has moved into a slight lead over Republican Martha McSally. Get an update on other undecided races by clicking hereJUST WATCHED Sen. Nelson calls for a recount in Florida Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sen. Nelson calls for a recount in Florida 01:274. AfghanistanThe Taliban is much stronger in Afghanistan than it was three years ago. A new report from the US Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction says the Afghan government only controls about 55.5% of the country. In November 2015 the government controlled about 72% of Afghanistan. A big part of the problem is that the Afghan army is dealing with a huge personnel shortfall in the face of the determined, sustained Taliban insurgency. The US involvement in the war in Afghanistan has dragged on for 17 years.JUST WATCHED Deadliest recorded year for Afghan civilians Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Deadliest recorded year for Afghan civilians 02:545. Keystone XL pipelineJUST WATCHED The Keystone pipeline debate in 2 mins Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The Keystone pipeline debate in 2 mins 01:47BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Proud parentsCongrats to actress Gabrielle Union and NBA star Dwyane Wade, who announced the birth of their baby girl.Gabrielle Union, left, and Dwyane Wade attend the premiere of the documentary "Shot In The Dark" in Hollywood on February 15, 2018.Color blindThe world has had color TV for about half a century now, but there are still more than 7,000 households in the UK that watch black-and-white televisions.A family watches television circa 1938.'A little ditty 'bout Jack & Diane'No, actually this little ditty is about John Mellencamp and Meg Ryan, who announced they're engaged.John Mellencamp and Meg Ryan attend Taormina Filmfest 2013 on June 20, 2013 in Taormina, Italy.'Bad' newsActor Bryan Cranston sounds as stoked as the rest of us about a "Breaking Bad" movie . But will his iconic Walter White character even be a part of it?Bryan CranstonHe sounds like a winnerMeet the 69-year-old man who wants to be legally declared 20 years younger so he can improve his chances with women on dating sites.The "Tinder" app logo is seen among other dating apps on a mobile phone screen.HAPPENING LATERBon voyage!President Trump and first lady Melania Trump leave this morning for Paris , where they will take part in ceremonies commemorating the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I.US President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump prepare to board Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House on October 30, 2018.TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeThe world's tallest statue just opened in which country?A. ThailandB. IndiaC. JapanD. FrancePlay "Total Recall: The CNN news quiz" to see if you're right. And don't forget, you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."NUMBER OF THE DAY17AND FINALLYRound and round