(CNN) One of three major wildfires roaring though California has burned its way into state history as the most destructive blaze on record in terms of structure loss, with more than 6,700 structures gone in two days, according to Cal Fire, the state's fire-fighting agency.The large Camp Fire in Northern California, which obliterated 80% to 90% of the homes in one town, has left at least nine people dead, officials said Friday. Kory Honea, the Butte County sheriff, said 35 people have been reported missing in the Camp Fire.The fast-moving wildfires in the state have destroyed thousands of structures and prompted thousands of residents to flee, sometimes through jam-packed flame-lined streets that forced evacuees to chose whether to try to drive to safety or to get out and run.The Camp Fire left the mayor of Paradise, population 26,000, in shock."There's really not much left. There are very few homes still standing and we've been in multiple different neighborhoods this afternoon," Mayor Jody Jones said. She estimated only 10 to 20% of homes are left.Four people were found dead in vehicles that were overcome by flames and one body was discovered near the vehicles, the Butte County Sheriff's Office said. The other victims were found near or inside homes that burned.Two major fires in Southern California are just miles from the bar where 12 people were killed in a mass shooting in Thousand Oaks, and evacuations were ordered for nearby Malibu, a seaside city popular with celebrities.Authorities have received reports of two fatalities in the city of Malibu, and the Los Angeles County Medical Examiner-Coroner's office said it was working to confirm whether they are related to the wildfires.Fanned by high winds and fueled by low humidity and dry vegetation, the fires spread rapidly Thursday and overnight into Friday. The threat continued Friday, with millions of Californians under "red flag" warnings portending windy arid and warm conditions that pose extreme fire risks.Here's what we know about the trio of fires:Camp Fire: People flee 'carrying their babies and kids'In Northern California, panicked residents began fleeing Paradise on Thursday as the Camp Fire swept through it.By Friday morning, the town's main road was littered with downed trees and power lines. Much of the brush and grasses were blackened along the valleys, and many trees were still burning, a CNN crew there observed.A family that evacuated Thursday by driving along flame-lined roads posted a startling video to Facebook. The recording shows fire claiming houses and trees, and sparks blowing across the road in front of them. Suddenly the vehicle breaks through a wall of smoke and emerges into the safety of a clear road.Jones, the mayor, said a good portion of the business district is gone. And while some trees were torched, Jones said most of them remain."One of the things that's beautiful about Paradise are the trees and they're still here. ... I wasn't expecting that, but it's a good thing," Jones said.At least 52,000 residents were forced to evacuate from Butte County as the fire burned 90,000 acres.Flames also were on the outer edges of Chico, a city of 93,000 people about a 90-mile drive north of Sacramento.The full extent of the destruction in the county was still unknown, but authorities said more than 6,700 buildings have been destroyed -- many of those in Paradise.Whitney Vaughan described a scene of panic and terror as she recalled her narrow escape from her Paradise home Thursday morning.Vaughan and her husband had just fled their home as flames rushed them. She saw a man "sprinting past our house carrying a little baby, running as fast as he could."They drove away but got eventually got caught in traffic. Flames were feet away, smoke was thick, cars weren't moving and people were panicking. Some people left their cars there "and took off running, carrying their babies and kids."She cried as she recorded video of the terrifying scene, which she posted to Facebook. She and her husband eventually were able to drive away safely."We thought the fire was going to kill us," she told CNN.Paradise, roughly 80 miles north of Sacramento, is where four people were found dead in different vehicles and one person was found dead near a vehicle on the road where Vaughn recorded her video. The other four deceased victims were also found in the Paradise area.Five people had to be rescued by helicopter from the fire according to Josh Bischof, Riverside Fire Battalion Chief. The rescues were performed by firefighters who were actively engaged in fire-fighting, Bischof said.Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Jacob Saylors, 11, walks through the burned remains of his home in Paradise, California, on Sunday, November 18. His family lost a home in the same spot to a fire 10 years earlier. Hide Caption 1 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Lidia Steineman, who lost her home in the Camp Fire, prays during a vigil for fire victims on November 18 in Chico, California. More than 50 people gathered at the memorial service. Hide Caption 2 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California From left, California Gov.-elect Gavin Newsom, California Gov. Jerry Brown, President Donald Trump, Paradise Mayor Jody Jones and FEMA Administrator Brock Long survey damage left by the Camp Fire in Paradise, California, on Saturday, November 17. The death toll from the Camp Fire has risen to 76 and more than 1,200 people remain unaccounted for. Hide Caption 3 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A child wears a smoke mask while watching President Trump''s motorcade in Chico on November 17. Hide Caption 4 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Fire evacuees sift through donated items in a Chico parking lot November 17. Hide Caption 5 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A group of children hold an American flag as the motorcade of President Donald Trump drives through Chico, California, on November 17. Hide Caption 6 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A firefighter searches for human remains on Friday, November 16, in a Paradise trailer park destroyed in the Camp Fire. Hide Caption 7 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California President Donald Trump visits a neighborhood impacted by the Woolsey Fire in Malibu, California, on November 17. Hide Caption 8 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Dakota Keltner, right, rests on Havyn Cargill-Morris on November 16 in a truck at a makeshift encampment outside a Walmart store in Chico, California. The camp became a temporary respite for people displaced by the Camp Fire. Hide Caption 9 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A burned neighborhood is seen on Thursday, November 15, in Paradise, California. Hide Caption 10 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Rescue workers sift through rubble in search of human remains on Wednesday, November 14, at a burned property in Paradise. Hide Caption 11 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters work to control the Camp Fire on November 14 north of Oroville, California. Hide Caption 12 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Evacuee Denise Chester hugs her son, Antonio Batres, as she volunteers her time sorting clothes on November 14 at a makeshift shelter in Chico. Chester, who didn't want to know yet whether her home survived, said: "I want to help. I don't want to shut down." Hide Caption 13 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Tape outlines the location where sheriff's deputies on November 14 recovered the body of a Camp Fire victim. Hide Caption 14 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Magalia resident Luis Badres and his family left his home because of the Camp Fire. They were living in a tent on Tuesday, November 13, in the parking lot of a Chico Walmart. Hide Caption 15 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A long line of residents seeking to return to Malibu wait at a checkpoint on November 13 on Pacific Coast Highway after Woolsey Fire evacuation orders were lifted for the eastern portion of the city. Hide Caption 16 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A helicopter flies near the Woolsey Fire burning in the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area. Hide Caption 17 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Roger Kelton wipes away tears on November 13 while searching through the remains of his mother-in-law's home in Agoura Hills. It was destroyed by the Woolsey Fire. Hide Caption 18 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A melted fence runs along a hillside as firefighters battle the Woolsey Fire in Agoura Hills on November 13. Hide Caption 19 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters search through the remains of a Paradise house on November 13. Hide Caption 20 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Smoke fills the horizon on November 13 as an airplane flies near a flare-up of the Woolsey Fire near Lake Sherwood. Hide Caption 21 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A fire truck drives through part of Paradise on November 13. Hide Caption 22 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California An air tanker drops water on a fire along the Ronald Reagan Freeway in Simi Valley on Monday, November 12. Hide Caption 23 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Samantha Esau and Emily Garcia take in stray cats from an evacuated Paradise home on November 12. Hide Caption 24 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters put out hot spots in Paradise on November 12. Hide Caption 25 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Joseph Grado and his wife, Susan, embrace at a shelter in Chico on November 12. The Camp Fire destroyed their home. Hide Caption 26 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A firefighter battles a fire in Simi Valley on November 12. Hide Caption 27 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A plane drops fire retardant on the Woolsey Fire near Malibu on November 12. Hide Caption 28 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Betsy Ann Cowley walks through Pulga, near where investigators were trying to determine the cause of the Camp Fire. Hide Caption 29 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A resident sprays down a roof as firefighters battle the Peak Fire in Simi Valley. Hide Caption 30 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Shawn Slack carries a chainsaw on November 12 after trees burned in Paradise. Hide Caption 31 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Chris and Nancy Brown embrace while looking over the remains of their home on November 12. Hide Caption 32 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters put out hot spots in Thousand Oaks on November 12. Hide Caption 33 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters battle a fire in Simi Valley on November 12. Hide Caption 34 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A ferry makes its way toward Alcatraz Island on November 12 as the San Francisco skyline is obscured by smoke that drifted over from the Camp Fire. Hide Caption 35 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A vehicle drives through smoke near Pulga on Sunday, November 11. Hide Caption 36 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters battle the Woolsey Fire in Malibu on November 11. Hide Caption 37 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A helicopter drops water while battling the Camp Fire near Pulga on November 11. Hide Caption 38 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters work at the Salvation Army Camp in Malibu on Saturday, November 10. Hide Caption 39 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A bag containing human remains lies on the ground on November 11 as officials continue to search for victims at a burned-out home in Paradise. Hide Caption 40 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Cathy Fallon, who stayed behind in Paradise to tend to her horses during the Camp Fire, embraces Shawna De Long, left, and April Smith, right, who brought supplies for the horses. Hide Caption 41 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters douse embers off a canyon road that cuts across the mountains to Malibu. Hide Caption 42 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A plane drops fire retardant on a burning hillside in Malibu on November 11. Hide Caption 43 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Evacuee Brian Etter and his dog Tone, who escaped the Camp Fire on foot, rest in the parking lot of a Chico church on November 11. Hide Caption 44 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Culver City firefighters watch the Woolsey Fire from a burned home in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 45 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The remains of a Los Angeles home destroyed by the Woolsey Fire are seen on November 11. Hide Caption 46 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The sun rises over the Pacific Ocean on November 11 as the Woolsey Fire burns in Malibu. Hide Caption 47 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters battle a blaze in Malibu on Saturday, November 10. Hide Caption 48 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A woman runs in Calabasas as firefighters work to control a flare-up from the Woolsey Fire on November 10. Hide Caption 49 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The Camp Fire burns November 10 in the hills near Big Bend. Hide Caption 50 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Sheriff's deputies carry a body bag with a Camp Fire victim on November 10. Hide Caption 51 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Scorched hillsides and damaged power lines are seen on November 10 along the Pacific Coast Highway in Malibu. Hide Caption 52 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Araya Cipollini cries November 10 near the remains of her family's home in Paradise. Hide Caption 53 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Los Angeles County firefighters work in Malibu Creek State Park on November 10. Hide Caption 54 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A deer looks on from a burned residence in Paradise on November 10. Hide Caption 55 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A fire truck is seen on the Pacific Coast Highway as the Woolsey Fire burns in Malibu on November 10. Hide Caption 56 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Eric England searches through a friend's vehicle in Paradise on November 10. Hide Caption 57 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Sheriff's deputies walk November 10 through a neighborhood destroyed by the Camp Fire. Hide Caption 58 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A satellite image from November 10 shows vegetation that was burned as a result of the Woolsey Fire. Hide Caption 59 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters meet in Paradise on November 10. Hide Caption 60 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Roger Bloxberg and his wife, Anne, hug on Friday, November 9, as they watch a wildfire on a Los Angeles hilltop. Hide Caption 61 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Malibu Mayor Rick Mullen, who is also a firefighter, surveys a house engulfed in flames on Friday, November 9. Hide Caption 62 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A massive smoke plume, powered by strong winds, rises above the Woolsey Fire in Malibu on November 9. Hide Caption 63 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Cathy Fallon stands near the charred remains of her Paradise home on November 9. The Camp Fire has wiped out much of the town north of Sacramento. Hide Caption 64 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A firefighter sprays down palm trees as the Woolsey Fire burns in Malibu on November 9. Hide Caption 65 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Llamas are tied to a lifeguard stand on a Malibu beach on November 9. Hide Caption 66 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Smoke is seen over the Pacific in this photo taken from a helicopter over Malibu on November 9. Hide Caption 67 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A woman in Malibu reacts to devastation on November 9. Hide Caption 68 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A row of palm trees stands as the Woolsey Fire continues to burn in Malibu on November 9. Hide Caption 69 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California From left, firefighters Cory Darrigo, Omar Velasquez and Sam Quan rest in a Westlake Village backyard after battling the Woolsey Fire all night. Hide Caption 70 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Gabi and Jonah Frank walk on the Pacific Coast Highway as the Woolsey Fire threatens their Malibu home on November 9. Hide Caption 71 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A satellite image taken by NASA's Operational Land Imager shows the Camp Fire in Northern California. Hide Caption 72 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A firefighter keeps watch as the Woolsey Fire burns a home near Malibu Lake on November 9. Hide Caption 73 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The Woolsey Fire burns in Malibu on November 9. The community is known for celebrity beachside homes. Hide Caption 74 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Doug Thomas and his dog Hanna rest November 9 while they await word if they can return to their Malibu Lake home. Hide Caption 75 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Cars destroyed by the Camp Fire sit in a used-car lot in Paradise on November 9. Hide Caption 76 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters battle flames in Thousand Oaks early on November 9. Hide Caption 77 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Evacuees rest on cots supplied by the Red Cross at a Los Angeles high-school gym on November 9. Hide Caption 78 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Fire Capt. Steve Millosovich, battling the Camp Fire in Big Bend, carries a cage of cats that fell from an evacuee's pickup. Hide Caption 79 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Smoke billows above Malibu trees in this photo posted to Instagram by Julie Ellerton. Hide Caption 80 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters push a vehicle from a garage as the Woolsey Fire burns a home in Malibu on November 9. Hide Caption 81 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Patients are evacuated from Paradise's Feather River Hospital as it burns on Thursday, November 8. Hide Caption 82 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Juanita and Wayne McLish sit on a curb November 8 after losing their house to the Camp Fire in Paradise. Hide Caption 83 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The Hill Fire burns in Thousand Oaks on November 8. Hide Caption 84 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The Woolsey Fire burns in Ventura County, where Jason Bauer told CNN his parents had just been evacuated from their home. Hide Caption 85 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California People embrace in the parking lot of a Paradise hospital as the Camp Fire engulfed it on November 8. Hide Caption 86 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The Paradise Inn burns on November 8. Hide Caption 87 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A firefighter works to extinguish a spot fire at a home in Paradise. Hide Caption 88 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Vehicles and homes burn as the Camp Fire rips through Paradise on November 8. Hide Caption 89 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Dogs roam a burned-out neighborhood in Paradise. Hide Caption 90 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Hospital staff and first responders evacuate the Feather River Hospital in Paradise on November 8. Hide Caption 91 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A fire emergency crew works to protect the Paradise Town Hall from the encroaching Camp Fire on November 8. Hide Caption 92 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A home burns as the Camp Fire rages through Paradise. Hide Caption 93 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A vintage car rests among debris in Paradise. Hide Caption 94 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Medical personnel move patients as the Feather River Hospital is evacuated in Paradise on November 8. Hide Caption 95 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Smoke fills the sky over Paradise on November 8. Paradise, located about 85 miles north of Sacramento, has 26,000 residents. Hide Caption 96 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California The remains of a building are seen after being consumed by the Camp Fire. Hide Caption 97 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A firefighter monitors a burning home on November 8. Hide Caption 98 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California California Highway Patrol officers attempt to transfer a potbelly pig they rescued in Butte County on November 8. Hide Caption 99 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California A Paradise home is engulfed in flames on November 8. Hide Caption 100 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Firefighters monitor a back fire while attempting to save homes in Paradise on November 8. Hide Caption 101 of 102 Photos: In pictures: Wildfires tear across California Flames burn inside a van as the Camp Fire tears through Paradise on November 8. Hide Caption 102 of 102The blaze burned Western Town at Paramount Ranch, according to the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, a unit of the National Park Service. The buildings were seen in movies and television series such as "Westworld" and "The Cisco Kid."Three firefighters and some civilians were injured, Cal Fire officials said. The extent of their injuries was unknown.More than 3,200 firefighters were battling the flames and the fire remained just 5% contained, according to Cal Fire. The cause of the fire is still under investigationThe Camp Fire has destroyed an unknown number of homes and buildings in Paradise.Woolsey Fire: Thousands of homes evacuated, Malibu area threatenedIn Southern California, strong Santa Ana winds were fanning two fires, including the Woolsey Fire, which by Friday morning had burned across US 101 and was heading toward Malibu.JUST WATCHED Why wildfires are becoming the new normal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why wildfires are becoming the new normal 02:19The Woolsey Fire exploded from 2,000 acres to 8,000 in Los Angeles and Ventura counties in a matter of hours. Friday evening, officials said it had grown to 35,000 acres.At least 75,000 homes in Ventura and Los Angeles counties were under evacuation orders, and some structures have already been destroyed, officials said.The fire crossed US 101 a few miles east of Thousand Oaks -- the site of Wednesday night's bar shooting -- and was headed south to the Pacific coast, in the direction of Malibu Creek State Park and Malibu city, the Los Angeles County Fire Department said.VIDEO: @LACoFireAirOps Firehawk helicopter flying along Pacific Coast Highway in Malibu on the way to protect life and property. This is a historic event. Please follow the direction of local authorities. (Original video, ok to use with credit) @VCFD @LACoFD #WoolseyFire pic.twitter.com/SvZSfipzfk — LACoFireAirOps (@LACoFireAirOps) November 10, 2018And in part of Malibu itself -- a city of about 12,000 people known for beachside homes owned by celebrities and millionaires -- a mandatory evacuation was issued Friday.The Woolsey Fire in Southern California exploded in size overnight Thursday.In Malibu, journalist Julie Ellerton said she was calmly packing Friday morning after staying up all night.Ellerton, in an email to CNN, said it was strange to go from covering events related to Wednesday's shooting "to looking up in the afternoon and seeing plumes of smoke.""My heart's still with those suffering the loss of their children, their husband and their dad. I can't think anything matters more -- packing 'items' seems strange. The smoke just seems surreal," she wrote.In Hidden Hills, just north of Calabasas, Adrienne Janic gave her home over to firefighters late Thursday to use as a command center. Her deck provided a strong vantage point to monitor the spread of the fire.By 1 a.m. (4 a.m. ET), more firefighters arrived as the flames closed in on Janic's street"While a lot of my yard and neighbors' yards burned, the firefighters saved our homes," Janic tweeted just after 2 a.m. (5 a.m. ET) Friday. "We are still not out of the woods yet."Christy Dawn Little abandoned her Oak Park home, northeast of Thousand Oaks, around 11 p.m. (2 a.m. ET)."I had to work this evening, and ran out when I realized how close it was," Little told CNN. "We have found a safe hotel ... (in) Los Angeles."Video of her drive out of town shows the fire emitting an orange-red glow in the distance in the nighttime sky.Hill Fire: RVs, outbuildings burnedThe Hill Fire is the other fire burning near the site of this week's mass shooting in Thousand OaksThe fire started Thursday afternoon and spread quickly to cover about 6,000 acres, fire officials said. Friday, part of it was burning into the footprint of a 2013 wildfire, which could slow its spread, Ventura County Fire Chief Mark Lorenzen said. The Hill Fire was 15% contained by Friday evening, at 4,531 acres.Residents on social media posted their views of the flames nearly consuming the hillside in the Newbury Park area of western Thousand Oaks.While no homes or businesses have been lost to the fast-moving blaze, a number of RVs and outbuildings have been burned and a firefighter suffered a minor injury, authorities said.Howling Santa Ana winds were driving the Woolsey and Hill fires. The Santa Anas are strong, dry winds that high-pressure systems push from east to west, from the mountains and desert areas down into the Los Angeles area.Wind gusts of up to 77 mph were reported in Los Angeles County on Friday morning.A round of Santa Ana winds is forecast to whip the area Sunday through Tuesday, though it may be weaker than Friday's.