If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Can't get geared up to plan Thanksgiving dinner? Here are 10 places to just sit back and be served (if you can get a reservation). And here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. California wildfiresThe numbers just keep shooting up. The death toll from Northern California's Camp Fire is now at 63, after the remains of seven people were found. But the real eye-popping stat is the number of people listed as missing. That s oared to 631 after investigators added information from callers who reported people missing to the dispatch center the day the fire erupted. There do appear to be duplicates on the list, and some people who evacuated may have unreliable cell phone service due to the fire. Meanwhile, some survivors say they never got emergency alerts on their phones that could have warned them of the fire.2. CambodiaTwo senior members of one of the most murderous regimes in history had their day of reckoning. Nuon Chea, 92, and Khieu Samphan, 87, were found guilty of genocide by an international tribunal, a landmark verdict that may bring closure to millions of Cambodians. The pair are the senior surviving members of the Khmer Rouge , the tyrannical communist faction that killed more than 1.7 million people -- about a fifth of Cambodia's population -- during the 1970s. Both men were sentenced to life in prison.3. North KoreaNorth Korea has tested some kind of weapon , and the world is trying to figure out just what it is. The North's state media said it was a "newly developed ultramodern" weapon. Whatever it is, it's a sign North Korea is ready to go back to a more antagonistic relationship with the US if nuclear disarmament talks continue to go poorly. The weapon could have been a piece of long-range artillery like "a multiple rocket launcher," a South Korean government source told CNN. Meantime, Vice President Mike Pence said the US has dropped a key demand of the North, which will not have to provide a full list of its nuclear and missile sites before President Trump meets early next year with its leader.JUST WATCHED North Korea media: Kim inspects new weapon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North Korea media: Kim inspects new weapon 02:024. Florida recountFlorida's putting the machines away and will start recounting ballots by hand in its hotly contested US Senate race. The manual recount is needed because after the machine recount, Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson was within the 0.25% margin required for a hand recount in his race against Republican Gov. Rick Scott. Still, it looks like Nelson's odds of winning look pretty slim. That's because Scott picked up a few dozen more votes during the first recount. Meanwhile, the governor's race looks like it may be done. After a machine recount, that race is still outside the margin required for a hand recount, so it's likely former GOP Rep. Ron DeSantis will be the state's next chief exec.JUST WATCHED Fact-check: False Florida recount claims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fact-check: False Florida recount claims 04:195. WeatherEight people are dead and nearly 300,000 are without power as a wicked winter storm plows through the eastern US. The icy weather contributed to traffic crashes that left eight people dead in several states and stranded drivers for hours on Manhattan's George Washington Bridge. Today, more snow, sleet and freezing rain hit from the Central Appalachians through the Northeast. Parts of Pennsylvania and New England could see up to a foot of snow.JUST WATCHED Sleet or freezing rain? See the difference Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sleet or freezing rain? See the difference 01:11BREAKFAST BROWSERIP, RoyBefore hosting "Hee Haw," Roy Clark was a music star in his own right , one of the first to land singles on both country and pop charts. He was 85.Underpriced no moreGuess you don't have to die to rake in the big bucks as a painter. A David Hockney painting sold for $90 million , a record for a living artist.Power playsShe won $350 million last month playing Powerball. Now, she's paying it forward with a half-million-dollar donation to a veterans group.Banding togetherWhat did Kanye West and Mark Zuckerberg sing when they jammed together at a karaoke bar ? Well, here's a hint: Think of '90s boy bands.We sang Backstreet Boys I want it that way pic.twitter.com/IzGHk7i7OP — ye (@kanyewest) November 15, 2018HAPPENING LATERFrom the benchAfter a delay, the judge in the CNN v. President Trump lawsuit now says he'll announce his ruling this morning in the First Amendment case.JUST WATCHED Trump argues he can limit journalists' WH access Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump argues he can limit journalists' WH access 03:01TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeThe 2018 Oxford Dictionary Word of the Year is ...A. YouthquakeB. BougieC. ToxicD. DemocracyPlay " Total Recall: The CNN news quiz " to see if you're right. And don't forget, you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."TODAY'S NUMBER80%That's how much vaping has increased since last year among high school kids. And it's up 50% among middle schoolers. Now, the FDA wants new regulations on flavored nicotine products that have fueled vaping's rise.JUST WATCHED FDA is proposing these new rules on vaping Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH FDA is proposing these new rules on vaping 01:45IT'S THE WEEKEND, BABYAND FINALLYSlow down