If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Today is Cyber Monday, and it just might be the biggest one ever. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. US-Mexico borderThe border crossing in San Diego is back open this morning. It had been closed for several hours yesterday after a group of about 500 migrants rushed the border from the Mexican side, leading Border Patrol agents to fire tear gas at them . US Customs and Border Protection said the migrants threw projectiles that struck several agents. The incident marks an escalation of tensions that have been mounting since groups of Central American migrants began arriving in Tijuana a few weeks ago on their journey to try to gain entry to the US. Mexico says it will deport the migrants who attempted to rush the border. Click here for more photos.2. Ukraine and RussiaThere's an escalating standoff going on right now between Ukraine and Russia. Ukraine says Russian boats opened fire on Ukrainian ships near Crimea, seizing three of them in the Kerch Strait. That's a key waterway of strategic interest for both countries. Later today, Ukrainian lawmakers will vote on whether to declare martial law, and the United Nations Security Council will hold an emergency meeting. The Kerch Strait is a vital economic lifeline for Ukraine, as it allows ships leaving the port city of Mariupol to access the Black Sea. It's also the closest point of access for Russia to Crimea, a peninsula Moscow annexed -- with much controversy -- in 2014.JUST WATCHED Video allegedly shows Russian boat ram ship Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video allegedly shows Russian boat ram ship 01:323. California wildfiresThe Camp Fire in Northern California is now 100% contained , but the death toll continues to rise. Crews found three more bodies over the holiday weekend, putting the number of dead at 85. About 249 people are still missing. Complete containment doesn't mean the fire is out. It means a fire line has been cut around the blaze, cutting it off from trees and other fuel. Since it started more than two weeks ago, the fire has destroyed almost 14,000 homes, 514 businesses and 4,265 other buildings. It's burned an area roughly the size of Chicago.JUST WATCHED Camp Fire 100% contained Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Camp Fire 100% contained 00:464. YemenFive of the biggest international aid organizations in the world have a message for the US: Stop supporting Saudi Arabia in its war in Yemen or bear the blame for the widespread famine there . The agencies -- OXFAM, Care, International Rescue Committee, Save the Children and The Norwegian Refugee Council -- are all operating in Yemen right now. They say 14 million people are at risk of starving to death in Yemen unless the violence ends. A coalition led by the Saudis, with military support from the US, has battled Houthi rebels backed by Iran in Yemen for almost four years. The conflict has killed about 57,000 people. Peace talks are due to take place in Sweden in the next few weeks.JUST WATCHED Aid groups to US: Stop Yemen's suffering Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Aid groups to US: Stop Yemen's suffering 02:065. WeatherMore than 10 million people are under a blizzard warning this morning as a big winter storm moves from the Midwest up to the Great Lakes. The storm forced the cancellation or delay of thousands of flights, just as millions of people were headed home after the Thanksgiving holiday. Whiteout conditions closed multiple roads in Kansas, while residents in Missouri, Nebraska and Iowa dealt with high winds. All of that snow and wicked wind will torment the Great Lakes region before moving on to the Northeast.JUST WATCHED Travelers impacted as storm slams Midwest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Travelers impacted as storm slams Midwest 01:31BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Phone-free poolTired of people playing with their phones by the pool? Then check out the resort in Bali that bans them.Morning Joe (and Mika)Congrats to Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski. The MSNBC hosts tied the knot this weekend in DC.JUST WATCHED Mika Brzezinski and Joe Scarborough engaged (2017) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mika Brzezinski and Joe Scarborough engaged (2017) 00:59Making movesPrince Harry and Meghan will trade in the city for the suburbs early next year, as they move from Kensington Palace to Windsor before the baby is born.Unbreakable rings?Porcelain that's stronger than steel? A master jeweler from Hong Kong says he's created just that.Goodbye, BernardoDirector Bernardo Bertolucci, the Oscar-winning director best known for "Last Tango in Paris" and "The Last Emperor" has died of cancer at age 77.JUST WATCHED Director of 'Last Tango in Paris' dies at 77 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Director of 'Last Tango in Paris' dies at 77 00:35HAPPENING LATERRepublican ralliesJUST WATCHED New questions about Cindy Hyde-Smith's embrace of Confederate figures Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New questions about Cindy Hyde-Smith's embrace of Confederate figures 06:46Charlottesville trialThe trial of the man charged with fatally running down counterprotester Heather Heyer at a white nationalist rally last year begins today.JUST WATCHED Video shows what happened in Charlottesville Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video shows what happened in Charlottesville 02:30Mission to MarsTHIS JUST INPardon powerThe UAE pardoned Matthew Hedges , a British academic, who had been convicted of spying. Hedges had originally been sentenced to life in prison after a five-minute hearing last week.JUST WATCHED UAE pardons British student charged with spying Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH UAE pardons British student charged with spying 02:19AND FINALLY ...Rock onWanna join a rock band? You can probably get into this one, which has more than 1,000 members. ( Click to viewONE MORE THINGContent By: CNN Underscored