If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.You think your rush hour backup is bad? Some tourists at Disneyland Japan waited 11 hours in line this weekend just to meet Mickey Mouse on his 90th birthday! Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. California wildfiresBrace yourself, because sadly, it looks like it's going to be another week of devastation in California. The Camp Fire has been burning for more than 10 days, taken at least 77 lives, and destroyed thousands of structures, and officials say it's only about halfway done . Cal Fire, the state's forestry and fire protection agency, says the blaze likely won't be fully contained until November 30.Amid the horrible news coming out of the Camp Fire, there are a few moments of comfort and kindness to be found. A 'bus driver from heaven' evacuated a school bus full of young students because their parents weren't able to make it to the flame-surrounded school. Elsewhere, a 93-year-old woman with no phone, internet or way to get out was finally saved when a garbage man sped down her street and picked her up . Here she is, safe and sound on the garbage truck.2. White HouseJUST WATCHED Trump: Mueller probe decisions up to Whitaker Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: Mueller probe decisions up to Whitaker 02:033. Midterm electionsJUST WATCHED Abrams won't say Kemp is 'legitimate' governor Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Abrams won't say Kemp is 'legitimate' governor 02:334. Mexico deathJUST WATCHED Officials: Missing teacher killed in Mexico Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Officials: Missing teacher killed in Mexico 00:51Questions surrounding the disappearance of a North Carolina teacher in Mexico last month appear to have gotten a tragic answer. According to a post on the verified Facebook page of the Governor of Chihuahua, Patrick Braxton-Andrew, 34, was killed by a drug dealer from the Sinaloa cartel while out for a walk. A Facebook page set up to find Braxton-Andrew said that Chihuahua state authorities had confirmed the death. Braxton-Andrew disappeared October 28 after leaving his hotel in Urique.5. Argentine submarineJUST WATCHED Missing Argentinian submarine found Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Missing Argentinian submarine found 01:07You may remember the horrifying story from last year about an Argentine submarine that vanished with 44 people aboard. The vessel was found this weekend , exactly one year and a day after it disappeared. The ARA San Juan, which "suffered an implosion" days after its last known contact last year, was found about 2,850 feet down on the Atlantic ocean floor. Argentina's Defense Minister Oscar Aguad said, unfortunately, the country does not have the capability of retrieving the submarine because of the depth of the wreckage site.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Man who yelled 'Heil Hitler! Heil Trump!' in crowded theater apologizes, says it came out wrong.Condoleezza Rice shrugs off report that the Cleveland Browns want to interview her for head coach position.Coca-Cola wants to make a Coke-branded energy drinkFor when the regular Coca-Cola jitters just AREN'T enoughA 3D printer is headed to the International Space StationJ. Crew's CEO is stepping down after very short tenureAND FINALLYFriends foreverWinnie the Pooh knew exactly how to love on a sweet little boy with cerebral palsy at Disney World, and yes, I definitely cried while writing this.