If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.They are 10 remarkable trailblazers who have truly changed the world. Meet this year's CNN Heroes. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Midterm electionsIt was billed as a big announcement on asylum policies, but President Trump's address on immigration turned out to be more like his typical campaign speech. He said he would sign an executive order next week that would restrict asylum rules to close the door on the Central American migrants now trekking here through Mexico. He also said US troops he's sending to the border could fire on migrants if they threw rocks at the soldiers (Pentagon rules don't allow that; here are a few other fact checks of the speech).Hagel: Trump is using our troops as pawnsHagel: Trump is using our troops as pawns 03:16Hagel: Trump is using our troops as pawnsAt a rally later in Missouri, the President called the concept of birthright citizenship -- enshrined in the 14th Amendment -- a "crazy, lunatic policy." It's clear Trump is doubling down on stoking immigration fears to shore up the GOP's Senate majority, even if it ends up costing the Republicans the House.Lemon: Trump is distracting you from thisLemon: Trump is distracting you from this 10:58Lemon: Trump is distracting you from this2. Russia investigationHere's why it's important: The emails are among documents in special counsel Robert Mueller's possession as he investigates whether Stone had an inside track with WikiLeaks and whether he shared any of that information with then-candidate Trump or Trump's inner circle. WikiLeaks published hacked emails from Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman that may have come from Russian hackers.JUST WATCHED Roger Stone reveals he talked to Trump campaign about WikiLeaks in 2016 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Roger Stone reveals he talked to Trump campaign about WikiLeaks in 2016 02:373. Google walkoutsGoogle employees worldwide briefly walked off the job to protest sexual harassment and discrimination scandals that have dogged the tech giant. All this comes after a New York Times investigation showed that for years the company had paid executives accused of harassment millions in severance packages. The protests' organizers want Google to end forced arbitration in harassment cases; make data on gender, race and ethnicity compensation gaps more transparent; and create a clear, inclusive process for reporting sexual misconduct safely and anonymously.JUST WATCHED Watch: Google employees stage global protests Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch: Google employees stage global protests 01:484. EthiopiaJUST WATCHED How China is investing billions of dollars in Africa Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How China is investing billions of dollars in Africa 04:325. School bus stop crashesFor at least the fifth time in three days , a vehicle struck kids trying to get on a school bus. The latest incident happened in Tampa, where police say a fast-moving car hit several people. Two adults and five children were hospitalized. Other crashes occurred in Mississippi, Indiana and a second Florida city. The Indiana incident was the most heartbreaking: A 9-year-old girl and her two brothers were killed while crossing the street to catch their bus.JUST WATCHED Several struck at Florida bus stop, driver in custody Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Several struck at Florida bus stop, driver in custody 00:48BREAKFAST BROWSEChristmasy enough?Starbucks unveiled new holiday cups that make no doubt that they are, indeed, holiday cups.Eternal flameCheck out the hillside in Azerbaijan where a fire has burned continuously for 4,000 yearsThe robots are comingMeet Sophia. She laughs and smiles and frowns just like you. She probably wants to replace you, too.JUST WATCHED Meet Sophia: The robot who smiles and frowns just like us Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meet Sophia: The robot who smiles and frowns just like us 02:26Well, you don't sayApple bragged for years about its iPhone sales. Now, it plans to stay mum about them, a likely nod to flatlining growth.HAPPENING LATERJobs, jobs, jobsThe October jobs report comes out this morning, and it might be the most closely watched one of the year since we're just days ahead of the midterms. Economists predict more strong numbers.JUST WATCHED Unemployment rate falls to 49-year low (September 2018) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Unemployment rate falls to 49-year low (September 2018) 01:27TODAY'S QUOTE"For anybody here who has an ancestor who didn't have the right to vote and you are choosing not to vote, ... you are dishonoring your family."Oprah Winfrey, i n a fiery stump speech for Georgia's Democratic gubernatorial candidateJUST WATCHED Oprah and other celebs campaign in Georgia Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Oprah and other celebs campaign in Georgia 02:03TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeHaving your appendix removed decreases your chances of developing what disease?a) Asthmab) Diabetesc) Parkinson'sd) SalmonellaPlay "Total Recall: The CNN news quiz" to see if you're right. And don't forget, you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."IT'S THE WEEKEND, BABYJUST WATCHED 'Bohemian Rhapsody' puts Queen on big screen Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Bohemian Rhapsody' puts Queen on big screen 01:33AND FINALLYAll hail the queen