If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.If you're eyeing this year's crop of trendy toys for a kid on your holiday shopping list, one consumer group has a word of caution . Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Gun violenceA week that's supposed to be about peace and togetherness instead began with multiple tragedies. In Chicago, three people are dead after a man opened fire at Mercy Hospital ; one victim was an emergency room physician who'd been romantically involved with the gunman, who also died. Also last night, several people in Denver were injured and one was killed in a shooting near Coors Field; police are hunting for a suspect. Other fatal shootings occurred in Philadelphia, where four were found dead in a basement, and at a suburban St. Louis business, where a woman was assaulted and fatally wounded. Aside from the sheer volume of the incidents, Monday's shootings also reflect a continued rise of so-called "soft target" attacks , like those on a Pittsburgh synagogue and a California bar.2. Ivanka TrumpA new email controversy is hitting the White House. According to emails obtained by a nonpartisan watchdog group, Ivanka Trump used a personal email account last year to discuss or relay official White House business . Of course, this calls to mind the attention paid to Hillary Clinton's email habits during her time as Secretary of State, which became a rallying cry for President Trump's 2016 election campaign. The investigation into Ivanka Trump's emails began last year when the watchdog group, American Oversight, sued several agencies to obtain records of the first daughter's government correspondence.3. NissanThe auto industry was rocked yesterday when Nissan Chairman Carlos Ghosn, one of its most high-profile executives , was arrested in Japan. It turns out, an internal investigation revealed "significant acts of misconduct" over many years by him and another top exec. Nissan said it had been investigating Ghosn, a 40-year veteran of the auto industry, and another board member for months following a whistleblower report. As you can imagine, some major businesses were plunged into uncertainty following the news. Nissan is part of a powerful alliance of automakers that also includes Renault and Mitsubishi, and together they're responsible for more than 10% of all cars sold around the world. Ghosn's fate will have a huge impact on the companies' futures.JUST WATCHED Nissan Chairman Carlos Ghosn arrested in Japan Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Nissan Chairman Carlos Ghosn arrested in Japan 01:464. ImmigrationImmigrationPresident Trump's ongoing attempts to ban, turn away, incarcerate or otherwise dissuade asylum-seekers at the southern border just hit a huge road block. A federal judge yesterday issued a temporary restraining order blocking the Trump administration from denying asylum claims to immigrants who cross the US-Mexico border illegally. Previously, Trump had said he wanted to keep such migrants from applying for asylum, a legal course of action for non-citizens that can be pursued once a person actually arrives at the US border. "Whatever the scope of the President's authority, he may not rewrite the immigration laws to impose a condition that Congress has expressly forbidden," wrote US District Judge Jon Tigar in issuing the monthlong order in San Francisco.JUST WATCHED Why Trump isn't talking about caravan Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Trump isn't talking about caravan 02:395. California wildfiresThe Camp Fire in California is still burning, still destroying , still killing -- but the area can expect a small respite soon in the form of much-needed rain. Four to 6 inches is expected later this week, which should help a little bit in dissipating the smothering heat and smog from the fire. However, in a cruel irony, since most of the vegetation in the area has been incinerated, the rain will fall on bare earth and put the region at risk of mudslides. As if things weren't awful enough, it's also worth a note that because of the massive fires, smoke, smog and debris, three Northern California cities -- San Francisco, Stockton and Sacramento -- have topped the list of the world's most polluted citiesJUST WATCHED Many still unaccounted for in California fires Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Many still unaccounted for in California fires 01:57BREAKFAST BROWSEThe Equal Rights Amendment could soon officially become lawScientists have finally figured out why wombat poop is cubedJUST WATCHED Your chance to be 'Chief Wombat Cuddler' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Your chance to be 'Chief Wombat Cuddler' 01:12Here's how to tame your Thanksgiving Anxiety DisorderNASA has chosen an ancient crater on Mars for its next rover landingJUST WATCHED Organic matter found on Mars Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Organic matter found on Mars 00:56Flying this holiday? Here's (basically) everything you can and can't packSorry, please leave that unexploded Claymore mine at home.Photos: What to know about packing special items in your luggage Can I pack that? When it comes to packing, some things are harder than others. Here's what you need to know about guitars, surfboards, wine and more. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: What to know about packing special items in your luggage Kayaks: Seattle-based Alaska Airlines is the only U.S. airline allowing kayaks as checked baggage, with the exception of on their smaller SkyWest- or Horizon Air-operated flights. Other airlines restrict kayaks to only the folding kind. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: What to know about packing special items in your luggage Musical instruments: Small musical instruments like violins and wind instruments may be carried on the plane as cabin baggage, but do protect them with a hard-shell case. It's the larger instruments that require special accommodations, and in most cases airlines understand the value these items have for a guest, as well as their fragility. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: What to know about packing special items in your luggage Bicycles: Bicycles, although common, aren't without their challenges and fees. Airlines require bicycles to have their pedals and other projecting pieces removed or folded, and the handlebars turned parallel with the frame before packing it into a cardboard bike box or hard-shell bike case. Fees per bike for domestic U.S. flights range from $75 on Southwest Airlines, to $150 on United, American, and Delta. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: What to know about packing special items in your luggage Scuba gear: Air Tahiti is eager to fly scuba divers (and their gear) to the many islands of the archipelago. Divers should of course follow scuba decompression practice of waiting until 24 hours after a dive to fly, but when that time has passed remember to show a scuba certification card at Air Tahiti check-in to take advantage of the airline's extra 11-lb packing bonus for divers. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: What to know about packing special items in your luggage Wine: Oenophiles with travel booked on Alaska Airlines will be happy to learn that the carrier recently expanded their popular " Oenophiles with travel booked on Alaska Airlines will be happy to learn that the carrier recently expanded their popular " Wine Flies Free " program, which allows passengers to check for free a case of wine (up to 12 bottles) from vineyards in the states of Oregon, Idaho, Washington, and now, California. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: What to know about packing special items in your luggage Surfboards: When it comes to figuring out fees, surfers have it easiest thanks to the work of the Wave Tribe surf gear company, which compiles When it comes to figuring out fees, surfers have it easiest thanks to the work of the Wave Tribe surf gear company, which compiles an annual listing of surfboard boardbag fees. On it, airlines like Qantas, Singapore Airlines and KLM rank as "surfer friendly bros" for charging below $100 each. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: What to know about packing special items in your luggage Horses: Leslie Byxbee, public relations and social manager for Virgin Atlantic, tells CNN Travel that the "most surprising piece of luggage," a horse saddle box, was checked at Antigua. "It looks like a small fiber-board drum, and is the trunk that the saddle and grooming supplies for a horse or two horses would be transported in. No, we do not accept horses as checked baggage!" Hide Caption 8 of 8TODAY'S NUMBER34%JUST WATCHED Mom who lost son to flu: Get vaccinated Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mom who lost son to flu: Get vaccinated 01:25AND FINALLYIt's turkeys playing soccer