(CNN) Charlottesville, Virginia, is again bracing for journalists and protesters to converge on the city as jury selection began Monday for the man accused of killing Heather Heyer at last year's Unite the Right rally.Jury selection is expected to take two or three days and the trial will follow.James Fields of Maumee, Ohio, is accused of plowing his Dodge Challenger into a crowd of counterprotesters during the August 2017 white nationalist gathering, killing Heyer and injuring several other people, police say.Heyer, 32, was a local paralegal and had attended the rally to speak out against white supremacy and racism. Her friends and families say she died for her beliefsFields stands charged with first-degree murder in Heyer's death. He also faces five counts of malicious wounding, three counts of aggravated malicious wounding and one count of failing to stop at an accident involving a death.JUST WATCHED Heyer's mom: How could I not be strong? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Heyer's mom: How could I not be strong? 02:23Separately, he is charged with hate crimes in a 30-count federal indictment . Prosecutors in that case allege Fields espoused white supremacist ideals and denounced minorities on social media before traveling to Virginia for the rally. Once there, the indictment says, he drove his car into a crowd with the intention of hurting people he targeted based on his bigoted views.The 21-year-old has pleaded not guilty to the federal charges. It's unclear whether he has entered a plea to the state charges, though a trial would not likely be necessary if he had pleaded guilty.His attorney, Denise Lunsford, did not return an email seeking comment. Fields is being held without bail in the Albemarle/Charlottesville Regional Jail.Preparing for a circusJudge Richard Moore has allotted 18 days for the trial. In anticipation of the heightened interest it will bring, he has established several rules and made numerous arrangements to accommodate the press and public. Included are media operations and staging areas, as well as a remote viewing area to handle the overflow crowd.Moore has also outlined what he considers disruptive conduct and has banned purses, bags, signs and electronic devices from the courthouse.JUST WATCHED Charlottesville victim's mom: I hide her grave Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Charlottesville victim's mom: I hide her grave 01:45Fields' defense team has requested the trial be moved out of Charlottesville, saying the community is too connected to Heyer's death and other violence from the Unite the Right rally to provide a pool of objective jurors.Fields "has come to symbolize the community trauma associated with August 12," the change of venue motion says. "Despite careful (jury selection), potential jurors' resilience in their attempts to move forward may easily develop into prejudice against Fields, a prejudice that will be unlikely recognized by those affected and difficult, if not impossible, to ferret out."Prosecutors have countered that pretrial publicity is no reason to change the venue. They've discussed with the court possibly bringing in 300 or more potential jurors rather than the normal 40 to 60, according to a motion.Heyer's death followed months of violenceThe Unite the Right rally brought groups of white nationalists and neo-Nazis to Charlottesville on August 11, 2017, but the racially charged violence in the city started months earlierWhite nationalist Richard Spencer first led torch-wielding demonstrators through the city in May 2017. The protesters were angry over a City Council decision to rechristen two parks named for Confederate generals and to remove a bronze statue of one of those generals, Robert E. Lee, from an eponymous downtown park.Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia People fly into the air as a vehicle drives into a group of people demonstrating against a white nationalist rally after police cleared Emancipation Park in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday, August 12. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia The vehicle moments before it struck the crowd. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A woman receives first aid after a speeding car slammed into this silver convertible as it navigated through a crowd of counterprotesters. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A man embraces an injured woman after a car rammed into the crowd. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia Right-wing rally members clash with counterprotesters in Emancipation Park, where white nationalist groups gathered for a rally. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A counterprotester strikes a white nationalist with a baton during clashes at Emancipation Park, where white nationalists are protesting the removal of the Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee monument. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A counterprotester throws a newspaper box at a right-wing rally member at the entrance to Emancipation Park. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A counterprotester uses a lighted spray can against a white nationalist at the entrance to Emancipation Park. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia Counterprotesters try to burn a Confederate battle flag taken from white nationalist protesters. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia White nationalists, neo-Nazis and members of the "alt-right" clash with counterprotesters. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A white nationalist is seen with a cut below his eye suffered during clashes with counterprotesters at Emancipation Park . Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia White nationalists, neo-Nazis and members of the alt-right movement exchange volleys of pepper spray with counterprotesters as they enter Emancipation Park. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A woman is treated for exposure to pepper spray during clashes between white nationalists and counterprotesters at Emancipation Park. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia White nationalists use shields as they guard the entrance to Emancipation Park. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia Counterprotesters line the route taken by white nationalists and neo-Nazis during the "Unite the Right" rally. After clashes with anti-fascist protesters and police, the rally was declared an unlawful gathering and people were forced out of Emancipation Park, formerly called Lee Park and home to a controversial statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia White nationalist Richard Spencer and his supporters clash with Virginia State Police in Emancipation Park. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia Riot police form a line of defense in front of the statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee in Emancipation Park, recently renamed from Lee Park. Hide Caption 17 of 17Counterprotesters met them carrying banners that read "Black Lives Matter" and "F**k White Supremacy." Police made three arrests. A police officer was injured when a flying object struck him in the head.There was more violence in July when about 50 Ku Klux Klan members clashed with counterprotesters, prompting police to disperse tear gas and arrest 22 people.After scuffles broke out August 11, the night before Heyer was killed, police declared a University of Virginia protest illegal and ordered the white nationalists and counterprotesters to disperse.The morning of the August 12 rally, more clashes erupted, forcing police to clear Emancipation Park, formerly Lee Park (it's now known as Market Street Park). The day was marred by pepper spray, screaming and fistfights, and before the rally could begin, police decided the protest constituted an unlawful assembly and Gov. Terry McAuliffe declared an emergency.Fights continued to break out around the city. That afternoon, Fields allegedly ran his car into the crowd.JUST WATCHED Victim's mom: Let's focus on why she was there Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Victim's mom: Let's focus on why she was there 01:50Surveillance video showed a Dodge Challenger stopping about a block and a half away from the protesters, reversing, then driving into the crowd before speeding away in reverse.Fields could not be seen driving the car, but aerial footage from Virginia State Police showed him getting out of the car and onto the ground after the collision.'He had an African-American friend'As a youngster in Union, Kentucky, Fields had "outlandish, very radical beliefs," his former social studies teacher, Derek Weimer, said."It was quite clear he had some really extreme views and maybe a little bit of anger behind them," Weimer said. "He really bought into this white supremacist thing. He was very big into Nazism. He really had a fondness for Adolf Hitler."A classmate who took German classes with Fields told CNN affiliate WCPO that Fields "would proclaim himself as a Nazi. ... It was not a secret."JUST WATCHED Suspect in car crash identified Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Suspect in car crash identified 01:39After graduation, Fields joined the Army in August 2015 but left active duty after failing to meet training standards, Army spokeswoman Lt. Col. Jennifer Johnson said."As a result he was never awarded a military occupational skill, nor was he assigned to a unit outside of basic training," she said.Fields was working for a security company at the time of his arrest. He's since been fired, the company said.His mother, Samantha Bloom, told The Blade in Toledo, Ohio, that she thought her son had traveled to Virginia for a rally related to President Donald Trump. She was surprised her son attended an event with white supremacists, she said."He had an African-American friend," she told The Blade.Fields apologized and cried after his arrestDuring an earlier hearing in Fields' case, Charlottesville Detective Steven Young testified he was patrolling Emancipation Park when he got a call about the alleged hit-and-run that killed Heyer.James Fields, right, marched in the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville.By the time Young arrived on the scene, Fields was already on the ground in handcuffs, he said. There was blood and flesh on the front of the Challenger, the front fender had been torn off and the windshield was cracked, he said.Under cross-examination by Lunsford, Fields' attorney, the detective acknowledged that, after his arrest, Fields said, "I'm sorry" several times and asked if people were OK.Fields appeared shocked and began sobbing upon learning Heyer had been killed, Young testified. Fields told investigators he went to Charlottesville by himself and wanted to hear a speaker at the rally, the detective said.