If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Your trick-or-treating kids brought home candy you can't stand? (We're looking at you, licorice.) No worries. Check out the candy machine that swaps out all the treats you hate . Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Indonesia plane crashA big breakthrough in the Lion Air crash investigation: One of the plane's so-called "black boxes" has been found . Video shows divers bringing the device, which houses flight data, aboard a rescue ship. Its discovery should help explain why the plane, a practically new Boeing 737, crashed into the Java Sea this week off Jakarta, killing 189 people. Some parts of the fuselage may have also been found.2. Jamal Khashoggi3. Midterm electionsMeanwhile, here in Georgia, the gubernatorial candidates are bringing in the big guns. Democrat Stacey Abrams will have Oprah -- yes, that Oprah -- campaigning for her today. But Republican Brian Kemp is no slouch on big-time surrogates either. He'll have both President Trump and Vice President Mike Pence in the Peach State before polls open Tuesday.JUST WATCHED How words surrounding migrant caravan evolved Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How words surrounding migrant caravan evolved 03:144. Maryland footballDJ Durkin's return as the University of Maryland's head football coach lasted all of one day. The school's outgoing president fired Durkin , who had been on leave since the death this year of player Jordan McNair after a team workout. Maryland's board of regents had given Durkin the OK to come back Tuesday, after a report on the football team's culture said it wasn't "toxic." But that decision outraged McNair's family, students, faculty and some Maryland lawmakers, so Durkin got axed. Others on the coaching staff are still on leave, and a strength coach was fired, too. An independent medical report found several issues with McNair's treatment, including failure to assess his vital signs and recognize his heat illness, and not having proper cooling devices.JUST WATCHED Parents of athlete who died wanted coach fired Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Parents of athlete who died wanted coach fired 02:415. 'Whitey' BulgerWe now know how mob boss and FBI informant James "Whitey" Bulger died, and it was just as violent as the life he lived. Bulger, 89, was beaten beyond recognition at a West Virginia prison by multiple attackers. They also tried to cut his tongue out , a law enforcement official said. That vicious punishment is popular in the organized crime world for people who cooperate with law enforcement; one of two suspects in the brutal beating is a Mafia hit man.JUST WATCHED Boston gangster Whitey Bulger killed in prison Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boston gangster Whitey Bulger killed in prison 01:24BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.In and outPark rangers at Yellowstone warn people not to throw stuff into the geysers because sooner or later (sometimes decades later) it all comes back out.Wonder womanMost people, when they have painful kidney stones, stay in bed. When gymnast Simone Biles gets them, she leads Team USA to a world championshipJUST WATCHED Simone Biles: My adoptive parents were brave Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Simone Biles: My adoptive parents were brave 01:01Turning a pageWhen their favorite bookstore was forced to relocate after a rent increase, these English book lovers formed a human chain to move the books.End of the roadAfter 20 years, Tyler Perry is killing off his iconic "Madea" character because he doesn't "want to be her age, playing her."JUST WATCHED Tyler Perry plans to retire 'Madea' character Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tyler Perry plans to retire 'Madea' character 00:54The office, Part 1Pay raises and hiring decisions voted on by workers ? Yep, that's just how things work at this travel insurance website.The office, Part 2Or we could all go work at the company that lets you drink as many as four glasses of beer per day at its offices.JUST WATCHED Why WeWork opened a school Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why WeWork opened a school 02:34AND FINALLYWill you do the fandango?