Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Broken promises. Broken coalition. Broken trust. It's Wednesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .CAMPAIGN 2016Remember that promise the GOP candidates made to rally behind whoever eventually became the nominee? Scratch that . At the CNN town hall in Wisconsin last night, the last men standing (The Donald, The Ted and JK) basically said, 'Pledge? What pledge? Cause baby, now we got bad blood.' Things aren't so peachy with the Dems either. Hillz and Uncle Bernie are still squabbling over his New York debate idea. And she called Sanders a " pie in the sky " politician making promises he can't keep.ABORTIONYou gotta hand it to these pro-life politicians: They sure can come up with creative ways to try to limit abortions . The latest? Utah, which now demands that docs give anesthesia to women seeking abortions 20 weeks in or later . The reason: To spare the fetus pain -- even though the medical community has disputed that notion. But what does science know, right? Pro-choicers say it's basically a ban on abortions because no doctor in his right mind is going to give a patient unneeded anesthesia.SUPREME COURTAntonin Scalia's absence on the Supreme Court is doing a number on conservative causes. Last week, the court was evenly split on the latest challenge to Obamacare . Yesterday, it was 4-4 again on a case involving unions. During oral arguments the court's conservative wing seemed ready to strike down nearly 40 years of precedent involving the unions and fees related to collective bargaining. But without Scalia's fifth vote, a lower court's decision in favor of the unions stands. And organized labor gets a V in its columnJUST WATCHED Supreme Court's split decision gives unions a win Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Supreme Court's split decision gives unions a win 01:05BRAZILJUST WATCHED Major Brazilian party leaving Rousseff's coalition Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Major Brazilian party leaving Rousseff's coalition 02:35DETROIT SCHOOLSTimes always seem to be tough for Detroit city schools. But what happened now is being described as both a "punch in the gut" and a "slap in the face." Thirteen current or former principals have been busted in a kickback scheme that boils down to this: A vendor allegedly paid them bribes to charge their schools for supplies that were never delivered. Things like chairs, teaching materials, paper. The very things students needed the most. So yeah, while the struggling district cried poor, the principals were allegedly lining their pockets.JUST WATCHED Bribery charges against 13 Detroit principals Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bribery charges against 13 Detroit principals 01:25BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Duke dies at 69Need a big favorBack in the '90s singer Melissa Etheridge almost asked Brad Pitt to be a sperm donor , but she went with rocker David Crosby instead. Go figure.Length mattersAmateur videographers rejoice! Instagram extended its video-length limit to 60 seconds . Why? To keep people on Instagram longer, of course.Sigh of reliefStraighten up!Maybe mom was right. Good posture can lead to good things -- like increasing your chances of finding a match in online dating.Number of the day7.9 million