Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Debate in Detroit. Deliberation in the Supreme Court. Debris in Mozambique. It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door:TEXAS ABORTION CASEThe three female justices lit into the Texas solicitor general during yesterday's oral arguments in the most significant abortion case in two decades. Texas claims it's simply concerned about women's health when it passed a law requiring strict standards for abortion clinics. But when the Notorious RBG (that's Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg) asked him to explain how this doesn't limit women's access to abortions, he said they could still access a clinic in New Mexico -- which doesn't require such standards. So much for the "health of the women" argument.CAMPAIGN 2016And then there were four: Healthy surprise: The good doctor (ie Ben Carson) dropped out yesterday, saying he didn't see "a political path forward." That leaves just four duking it out during the GOP debate in Detroit tonight: Donald Trump, Ted Cruz, Marco Rubio and John Kasich . Expect them to gang up on The Donald who surprised many yesterday by dropping a seven-point health care reform plan . The big knock on the big man has been he's lots of bluster, few specifics. Take that!MH370Piece by piece: An American tourist An American tourist found a piece of plane wreckage off the coast of Mozambique, and now officials are testing to see if it's from the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370. The piece is about 3 feet by 2 feet, likely from the tail of a Boeing 777. There are lots of 777s in the world, but only one is missing. MH370 disappeared nearly two years ago and the reason still remains a mystery. The last chunk of the plane was found on Reunion Island, about 1,300 miles to the east. Search crews have their work cut out for them.JUST WATCHED U.S. official: Likely piece of MH370 found Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH U.S. official: Likely piece of MH370 found 01:53CEO crashCoincidence ... or not?: The former CEO of Chesapeake Energy died in a fiery car crash, just a day after being The former CEO of Chesapeake Energy died in a fiery car crash, just a day after being indicted for conspiracy . Aubrey McClendon was driving alone and traveling very fast when his car "drove straight into" an overpass wall. He wasn't wearing a seat belt. "There was plenty of opportunity for him to correct and get back on the road but that did not happen," Oklahoma City cops say. A grand jury accused McClendon of price fixing. He was due to turn himself in two hours.Chesapeake Energy Corp. CEO Aubrey McClendon in 2009.SLAP VIDEOCop out: A Baltimore school system police officer is off his beat. A five-second online video shows him A Baltimore school system police officer is off his beat. A five-second online video shows him slapping around a young man, then kicking him too. He throws in a few curse words for good measure. City police and the state attorney are investigating him for assault and misconduct. But count Baltimore's mayor as "appalled and disappointed." Not so fast, says the accused officer's attorney. The video doesn't tell the whole story. The young man was belligerent and angry before the officer reacted, the lawyer says.JUST WATCHED Video shows officer slap, kick a young man Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video shows officer slap, kick a young man 01:28BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Number of the day:2 -- The number of inches American astronaut Scott Kelly grew during his 340 days in space aboard the International Space Station.Live to Fight another dayCalm down, Foo Fighters fans . Everything is okay. Dave's not going solo and the band isn't breaking up.It's not you, it's himThe Breakup Shop will dump your boyfriend/girlfriend for you -- for the low, low price of $10. Or you can go bigger -- with a card that smells like poopYou've got mailWe know dogs aren't fans of postal workers. Cats, on the other hand ....(g)O CanadaThe real winner of Super Tuesday is our neighbor to the north. Google searches for "how to move to Canada" rocketed after The Donald's win.The long and winding roadNew Yorkers may seem harried but they aren't going nowhere fast. They have the longest average commute time in the country : 35 minutes one way .Ouch!And finally ...Hard habit to breakYou know how hard it is to wean a baby off a pacifier. Well, try doing that with a golden retriever.