Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Stop the politicians. Free the whales. And fire the missiles. It's Friday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .BRAZIL POLITICSr: Think America has the monopoly in the political circus dept? Nuh-uh. In Brazil, ex-Prez Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva was almost sworn in as Chief of Staff for the current president. Why's that a biggie? Because Lula (let's just call him that; everyone else does) has this little corruption scandal going. And a chief of staff gig would've delayed his prosecution. How convenient. Well, yesterday, a judge said 'Not so fast' to his swearing-in. BTW, the current prez is facing impeachment for a scandal of her own. Fun times.CAMPAIGN 2016The anti-Trump brigade held a big meeting yesterday, to assess all the weapons at its disposal to stop The Donald: A unity ticket. A third party candidacy. A good old-fashioned convention flight. Will any of it work? Has anything they've tried worked?Fine, you can have it: Bernie Bernie won't request a recount in Missouri, giving Hillz a 5-for-5 Super Tuesday 3 sweep. Bernie says he's saving the Missouri taxpayers "some money." Uncle Bernie is always thinking of others. At least he evenly split the delegates with Hillz, and delegates is what it's all about, right?JUST WATCHED What's happens if Trump falls short of 1,237 delegates? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What's happens if Trump falls short of 1,237 delegates? 02:13NORTH KOREABombs away: North Korea's at it again, chunking stuff into the sea. That "stuff" was actually : North Korea's at it again, chunking stuff into the sea. That "stuff" was actually two ballistic missiles , fired off the Korean peninsula's west coast early this morning. The South Koreans, who have to monitor such things, said one missile went 800 kilometers (that's almost 500 miles for non-metric folks) east toward the sea, while the other disappeared from radar about 17 kilometers (10 miles) up. Cue the usual wailing and gnashing of teeth from the U.S., the U.N., Japan, China ... you get the picture.JUST WATCHED North Korea launches ballistic missiles Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North Korea launches ballistic missiles 02:55SEAWORLDCARTOON CONTEST ATTACK