Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Obama offers regrets. Japan offers excuses. The Hague offers a verdict. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door:TERROR THREATSRADOVAN KARADZICThe Bosnian War, the bloodiest European conflict since World War II, killed more than 100,000. Radovan Kardzic was responsible for 8,000 of those deaths. Yesterday, the "Butcher of Bosnia" got his comeuppance when a special U.N. court in the Hague sentenced him to 40 years in prison for the Srebrenica massacre . The court called him "the architect of destruction" who directed his forces to systematically kill "every able-bodied" Muslim male.ARGENTINA'S 'DIRTY WAR'Regrets, I've had a few: You know how your military junta killed or made "disappear" 20,000 people and how we kind of enabled it? We shouldn't have done that. You know how your military junta killed or made "disappear" 20,000 people and how we kind of enabled it? We shouldn't have done that. That was President Obama's message to Argentina , referring to the country's "Dirty War." It was a brutal period . Half of those purged have yet to be ID'd. Obama has said he's going to begin unsealing intelligence files that might shed light on U.S. involvement. It's a pretty striking admission. But alas, what most people noticed about the Obamas' visit is that they danced the tangoJUST WATCHED See presidents dance Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See presidents dance 01:42NORTH KOREABomb-astic: The bad news - Some U.S. intelligence analysts now believe The bad news - Some U.S. intelligence analysts now believe North Korea probably has a mini nuclear warhead . The good news - The darned thing might not actually work. Still, it's troubling because it shows that Lil Kim isn't just B.S.-ing when he brags about his arsenal. His regime has come a long way in its goal of gaining a missile with a ballistic tip that can potentially strike the U.S. Sorry for ruining your Friday :'-(JUST WATCHED Officials: 'Probable' North Korea has miniaturized nuke Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Officials: 'Probable' North Korea has miniaturized nuke 02:29JAPAN WHALINGYeah, whatever: Japan really doesn't give a toss about international orders, does it? There's a global ban on commercial whaling. So what does Japan do? It calls its hunts "scientific research" Japan really doesn't give a toss about international orders, does it? There's a global ban on commercial whaling. So what does Japan do? It calls its hunts "scientific research" and kills 333 minke whales . And then whaddya know -- the meat shows up on dinner plates. If you think that's terrible, know that this hunt is part of a 12-year program that'll kill FOUR THOUSAND minke whales.A photo from 2013 shows a minke whale caught by Japan.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the Day: "I'm not saying that Donald Trump is necessarily Hitler. I'm not saying that."When Tay Tay goes cray crayEpic fail for Microsoft's AI experiment when its online chat bot, Tay, starts spewing lines like "Hitler was right I hate the jews."The house that crack builtTo build a houseTo hide a tunnelTo sneak their drugsBe kind, remindWhole lotta RosieAxl freakin' Rose! So, guess who's rumored to be fronting AC/DC now that docs have told Brian Johnson he can't tourParents at a metro Atlanta school get the word "namaste" banned because they're offended by the "religion" of yoga.AND FINALLY ...Sad to see you go