Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Today is all about presidents. Choosing one in Myanmar. Pressuring one in Syria. Freestylin' with one in the U.S. It's Tuesday, and here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .SYRIAOne thing about Putin: The man likes to keep us on our toes. Six months ago, he suddenly sent his troops into Syria. Now, just as suddenly, he's announced he's bringing his boys back home . This could mean one of two things: Putin's now confident in the Syrian regime's ability to go it alone in crushing the rebels. Or he wants to pressure Syrian Prez Assad into negotiating in peace talks . Or both. There could be a third reason: Russia's economy is in the crapper, thanks to falling oil prices, and now's not the time for expensive war games. This doesn't mean curtains for Assad. He still has the support of the Iranians and Hezbollah. Plus Russia's keeping an air base in Syria.SUPER TUESDAYRemember the good ol' days, when there was just one Super Tuesday ? Now, we're up to three. Seriously, the primaries are giving " Fast & Furious " a run for its money. What's at stake today? The very soul of the GOP. For Republicans dead set on stopping The Donald, it's the final chance to block his path to the party nomination. But not if he wins Ohio and Florida. Ditto for Hillz, who can gut Bernie by winning the same two states. Who's gone when the curtain comes up? The fat lady is clearing her throat for Mr. Rubio . Here's your guide to Super Tuesday 3.MYANMARTin Jaw: That's how you pronounce the name of Myanmar's new President. Learn it. The country's parliament has chosen That's how you pronounce the name of Myanmar's new President. Learn it. The country's parliament has chosen Htin Kyaw as the new leader , bringing decades of military rule to a close. So why not Aung San Suu Kyi? Because, thanks to a clause in the constitution put in place by the junta in 2008, no one with kids who're citizens of another country can be president. (Her sons are Brits). No biggie. Suu Kyi says she'll be "above the president." Game, set, match.Htin Kyaw is the new President of Myanmar.OFFICERS SHOTIt's a dangerous job: The Maryland cop killed in an unprovoked attack on a police station wasn't shot by the suspects. It was friendly fire that took his life. The Maryland cop killed in an unprovoked attack on a police station wasn't shot by the suspects. It was friendly fire that took his life. A fellow officer "inadvertently shot" Jacai Colson during the firefight in Prince George's County over the weekend. What we don't know is why Michael Ford launched the ambush while his brothers shot video. In a separate incident last night, three Chicago cops took bullets in a run-in with a narcotics suspect. All three will survive. Across the nation, more than 100 officers were shot last year. Forty-two were killed.JUST WATCHED 3 Chicago officers shot; injuries not life-threatening Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 3 Chicago officers shot; injuries not life-threatening 00:56HULK HOGANSay what?: Former Gawker editor A.J. Daulerio, who posted portions of Hulk Hogan's sex tape, Former Gawker editor A.J. Daulerio, who posted portions of Hulk Hogan's sex tape, says he was merely practicing journalism . That's his defense in Double-H's $100 million invasion of privacy lawsuit. "It can come off as pretty callous ... but that is the job of a journalist, to put information out there that's fair and accurate," he testified yesterday. This is the same guy who said in his deposition that he'd refuse a sex tape only if it was of a 4-year-old child. Sheesh, no wonder people despise reporters!BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Number of the Day: $101 millionA million here, a million there. Pretty soon you're talkin' real money. Bangladesh's central bank lost a big chunk of change in a series of high-tech heists.Grande pay cutThe E.coli outbreak took a big bite out of the salaries of Chipotle's two big enchiladas. No tears, please. They still eked out $13 million each last year.Love a llamaFeeling on the edge? Need to chill a bit? Hug a llama, it's all the rage in pet therapyCelebrity lookalikeRose Garden Freestyle"Hamilton" star Lin-Manuel Miranda can freestyle like nobody's business. You try keepin' it real when the President's throwing words like "constitution" and "NASA" at you.Clean your plateForget those words Mama told you growing up. It's not going to kill you not to eat every last green bean . In fact, it's going to help you live longer.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening today.Faces of SyriaThey've been through hell, but still there's hope. This is what Syrians around the world want you to know five years into the war. And it's today's must-read.AND FINALLY ...Sup, dawg?Wilson the Bulldog's sitter goes whole hog when his humans are on vacay. Not only does Wilson get great care, his mom and dad get daily video updates. Oh, and they're in character too. We give it two paws up.