Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here.(CNN) History in Cuba. Craziness in the campaign. And "spring" in the Northeast. It's Monday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.CUBA VISIT¿Que bolá Cuba?': Turns out the President is just like the rest of us. When Air Force One Turns out the President is just like the rest of us. When Air Force One touched down yesterday in Havana , he did what we all do the first time we visit a new place -- announce the arrival on social media . But this is a trip worth documenting: it's the first visit by a sitting U.S. President to Cuba in nearly 90 years. Obama wants Cuba to give more freedom to its people and open up new opportunities for U.S. businesses. Obama and the first family played tourists yesterday -- strolling through Old Havana and dining at a paladar --- but today will be about business, including a meeting with Raul Castro.JUST WATCHED President Obama: This is a historic visit, opportunity Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH President Obama: This is a historic visit, opportunity 00:52TERROR ARREST'Ready to restart something': Was terror suspect Salah Abdeslam planning to hit Brussels? That's what Belgium's foreign minister believes after a Was terror suspect Salah Abdeslam planning to hit Brussels? That's what Belgium's foreign minister believes after a large cache of weapons was found after Abdeslam's arrest on Friday. Authorities say they also discovered a "new network" around him in Brussels. Abdeslam is the only surviving suspect thought to have been directly involved in November's terror attacks in Paris. He had been on the run ever since. The hunt now turns to the Paris network that aided Abdeslam, which is believed to be bigger than originally thought.JUST WATCHED Captured Paris attacker planned to 'restart something' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Captured Paris attacker planned to 'restart something' 01:25Read More