Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Marco bows out. Argentina finds something fishy. And Teresa's a saint. It's Wednesday, and here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .SUPER TUESDAYThe Republican race just got waaay more interesting. The Donald cleaned up last night. But John Kasich gummed up Trump's path to the nomination by taking home state Ohio. The billionaire needs to win 60% of the remaining delegates to win outright. Can he do it? It'll be tough. What else? Marco Rubio is out. Getting your butt kicked in your home state will do that. Hillz is all smiles and focused on the general election after a strong night. Here are the 5 takeaways from Super Tuesday 3ANDERS BREIVIKRight-wing terrorist Anders Breivik certainly knows how to make an entrance. A Nazi salute in court will do that. His lawsuit against Norway says being kept in isolation violates his human rights . Norway says that's what you get when you're convicted of killing 77 people and still want to spread your extremist propaganda around the world. He's back in court today. Try to behave to yourself, Breivik.THE NFL AND CTEHead knockers: The The NFL admitted it this week . There's a connection between football and CTE. Raise your hand if you're shocked that repeated blows to the head aren't good for you. The facts: CTE is a degenerative brain disorder. Many former players have been diagnosed with it. What's next? The league's stressing improved safety regs. It may also have to deal with former players who may want to get the league back in cour t. Paying for CTE may just be the cost of doing business.JUST WATCHED NFL confirms link between football and CTE Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NFL confirms link between football and CTE 01:46ARGENTINA AND CHINAHooked: Argentina's not afraid to play rough with the big boys. Catch a Chinese boat fishing in your territorial waters? Sink 'em. The Argentina's not afraid to play rough with the big boys. Catch a Chinese boat fishing in your territorial waters? Sink 'em. The Argentine coast guard says it started with warning shots , the Chinese ship trying to ram and then outrun them. Beijing is not amused and wants answers. Still, China is familiar with the M.O. In its neck of the woods -- the South China Sea where China, the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei all have claims-- it likes to throw its weight around . A little taste of its own medicine?JUST WATCHED Argentina sinks Chinese vessel Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Argentina sinks Chinese vessel 00:53MOTHER TERESAHeavenly high five: Mother Teresa is finally becoming what many folks have considered her for years -- a saint. Mother Teresa is finally becoming what many folks have considered her for years -- a saint. Pope Francis will do the honors in September. Not everyone gets to be a saint, of course. You have to rack up a couple of miracles. A life of service is a good start too. She joined an Irish convent at 18 and never looked back. Later, it was on to India to serve the poorest of the poor. Teresa won the 1979 Nobel Peace Prize for her work. It's not quite sainthood, but it's one of the better honors this side of heaven.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Number of the Day: $3.6 billionTotal of lawsuits filed against Volkswagen by investors over its scam to rig diesel emissions tests.Calling all Oompa LoompasThis sounds like the ultimate sugar rush. Universal-Orlando is bringing Willie Wonka's Chocolate Factory into the real world. Yum.Another crazy thing from OzTrump No. 2This guy is yuuuge in the Philippines. He's provocative . He's loud. He's making big promises. Sound familiar?#OscarsSoSorryThe Oscars are "apologizing" for jokes during its telecast about Asian stereotypes . We put that in quotes because it was the weakest apology ever.Raiders of the Lost AARPWHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening today.Metro shutdownCommuters in Washington may not get to work until lunchtime. The entire Metrorail system is closed for the day for safety inspectionsAND FINALLY ...Almost Happy St. Patrick's DayAmericans love St. Patrick's Day. So do the Irish. So why do our green snacks disgust them?