Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) It's the weekend! And the Hamilton Mixtape is finally here! YEAH! Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Haiti cholera outbreakThe UN has finally apologized to Haiti for the 2010 cholera epidemic that killed at least 10,000. The UN said sorry for not doing enough to prevent the spread. But it didn't acknowledge claims that its peacekeepers were the ones who brought the disease. Obviously, some feel the apology's too little, too late.2. CyberbullyingOne of our most-read stories right now is about a Texas high school senior who shot herself to death -- in her room, in front of her family -- because of relentless bullying over her weight. Family members say Brandy Vela had reported the bullying to police, but was told there wasn't much they could do.3. Trump 'thank you' tourAnybody who thought President-elect Trump would be any different from Candidate Trump got an eye opener. His victory lap in Cincinnati last night was vintage Trump. He vowed to build the wall; promised to restrict Muslim immigration and blasted the media. It was the summer of 2016 all over again.4. Chicago homicidesThe number of homicides in Chicago this year has now crossed 700. (Last year, it was 480.) Almost all of them involve guns and happen on the city's south and west sides. But why? Distrust of the police, rising street crime and economic struggles are just some of the reasons.5. European electionsTwo crucial decisions this Sunday. Austria holds a presidential election re-run. If Norbert Hofer wins , he'll be the first far-right president in Western Europe since WW II ended. Italy votes in a referendum that could -- in one scenario -- boot the PM, spark a banking crisis and push it out of the eurozone.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Safe passageLet's send best wishes to Buzz Aldrin who had to be evacuated from the South Pole after he got seriously sick. He's recovering in New Zealand.To have and to holdA 2-year-old boy's teddy bears are made out of the police uniform of his father , who was gunned down two months ago.Breaking good"Pharma Bro" Martin Shkreli once raised the price of a life-saving drug by 5,000% to $750. A group of schoolboys recreated it in their lab for just $20.Puppy powerNow that's a well-trained dog. After having an accident indoors, this smart puppy just unrolled the toilet paper to clean it up.AND FINALLY ...JUST WATCHED Things get weird when police set up camera at park Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Things get weird when police set up camera at park 00:46Creatures of the night