Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Help for Aleppo has been held up, a TV favorite passes and you'll never guess who was at Trump Tower yesterday. Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.1. AleppoAs Aleppo falls to the Syrian regime, a temporary ceasefire and evacuation plan for the city has not worked out so far . The evacuation efforts have been delayed. According to monitoring groups, no one had left the city even hours after the evacuation was supposed to happen. The new ceasefire has reportedly been broken already, as reports of executions continue to manifest.2. Alan ThickeThe beloved sitcom actor died yesterday at 69. He was probably best known as Jason Seaver, the dad from "Growing Pains." Here's a tribute to that role. Thicke was also a music great who penned some of the era's most recognizable theme songs3. Trump transitionTrump was definitely feeling the love Tuesday as Kanye West, Bill Gates and football legend Jim Brown all paid visits to the PEOTUS at Trump Tower in NYC. Later, the love fest continued in Wisconsin, where Trump held a "thank you" rally and praised longtime political nemesis Paul Ryan.4. Rex Tillerson5. Police-involved shootingA 73-year-old unarmed Bakersfield man was shot and killed by police on Monday . The man was reportedly carrying a crucifix which may have been mistaken for a gun. A neighbor claims the man was acting strangely. His family said the man had previously shown signs of early dementia. The officer who shot him has been placed on administrative leave.Breakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.'The Voice' has crowned a winnerCongratulations to SPOILER ALERT . We hear Mr. Alert is very talented.WV county official gets job back after racist Michelle Obama postWho makes those giant bows in car commercials?NFL teams may drop breast cancer awareness campaignsNew species of spider named for the sorting hat from 'Harry Potter'And finally ...The journey of 128,000 dominoes