Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A rare admission from Russia, a dire prediction from Korea. In other words, the usual doom and gloom that's typical for a hump day. Here's what you need to know today to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Deaths2. North KoreaA North Korea defector says Kim Jong Un's going to take advantage of political upheaval in the US and South Korea to develop nukes by the end of 2017 . Kim's calculation is that both countries are too tied up with their own problems to stop him militarily. The defector said Kim won't give up on nukes even if offered big bags of cash to stop.3. Syria civil warTurkey and Russia have reportedly put together a nationwide ceasefire deal for Syria . It's supposed to start at midnight, but it's unclear if it'll lead to anything. We don't know if any of Syria's rebel groups have signed on. And terror groups like ISIS obviously aren't part of it either. If there is a ceasefire, talks for finally ending this wretched conflict will take place in Kazakhstan.4. Russia dopingRussia: We have a doping program for athletes. The rest of the world: Ya think? Russian sports officials are finally admitting that it had big-time institutional doping set up for its athletes during the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. It involved more than 1,000 athletes over 30 sports. Here's the reason one official gave: doping helped the Russians overcome preferential treatment given to Western athletes.5. ArgentinaArgentina's ex-president was hit with corruption charges -- again. Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner was indicted along with 11 others , accused of stealing billions in funds meant for public works projects. It's the second corruption case she's faced since she left office last year. She says all of this is nothing but a political witch hunt.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.First world problemsKids and parents are in an uproar over Hatchimals , because the toy eggs don't hatch at all and no one's picking up the phone at customer service.Better than a pat on the backGot a $100 gift card as a bonus this year? That's cute. A boss in Iowa is taking all 800 of his employees on a Caribbean cruise.No bad blood hereWhat's cooler than being a 96-year-old Taylor Swift fan? Having the pop star drop in on your family's holiday gathering for an acoustic "Shake It Off."Cat houseIn Asia, the hottest thing in real estate doesn't involve granite countertops or high ceilings. Instead it's apartments designed specifically for your cat.Don't say you weren't warnedAND FINALLY ...I'm outta hereMom wanted to give her daughter a cat for Christmas. But this frisky feline had other ideas. (Click to view)