(CNN) Benjamin Netanyahu arrives in Washington for a big speech. ISIS frees some hostages, raising questions. And Los Angeles police department is dealing with the fallout from a deadly police shooting.It's Monday, and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayNETANYAHU SPEECHIsraeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu arrived in Washington yesterday, in advance of his big speech tomorrow. Netanyahu will urge Congress to delay an upcoming deadline in the nuclear talks with Iran. The White House is more than miffed about the speech -- at Netanyahu for giving it and at House Speaker John Boehner for arranging it without President Obama's blessing. More than two dozen Democrats are skipping the speech, including Vice President Joe Biden, who apparently has more pressing business in Guatemala that day.ISISHostages freed: ISIS reportedly ISIS reportedly released 19 Assyrian Christian hostages yesterday. All but one of them were among the more than 200 people captured last week when the terrorist group attacked Christan villages in northern Syria. Why ISIS freed the hostages isn't entirely clear. But one theory is that ISIS wants to gain credibility by showing it follows the rules and procedures of Sharia law. The fate of the remaining hostages remains uncertain.JUST WATCHED Report: ISIS holding 260+ Syrian Christian hostages Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Report: ISIS holding 260+ Syrian Christian hostages 01:39NORTH KOREAMissles fired: As the United States and South Korea conduct joint military drills, North Korea responds the only way it knows how -- As the United States and South Korea conduct joint military drills, North Korea responds the only way it knows how -- with missiles . The regime fired two short-range missiles into the Sea of Japan early this morning. North Korea did the same thing during last year's drills, firing off about 90 missiles. The North Koreans consider the drills to be a provocation, calling them "nothing but a smokescreen" for a "surprise" U.S.-South Korea invasion. The U.S. military denies such charges, saying the drills are "nonprovocative training."JUST WATCHED North Korea orders army to prep for war with U.S. Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North Korea orders army to prep for war with U.S. 03:28RUSSIA KILLINGLeader remembered: It was supposed to be a rally condemning Russia's policies in Ukraine. But after the Friday night slaying of prominent opposition leader Boris Nemtsov, the It was supposed to be a rally condemning Russia's policies in Ukraine. But after the Friday night slaying of prominent opposition leader Boris Nemtsov, the rally morphed into a vigil yesterday, as thousands of Russians gathered in the shadow of the Kremlin to mourn his death. Nemtsov, a fierce critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin, was shot to death while walking home from dinner. Putin condemned the killing and ordered an investigation, but some of Nemtsov's allies are convinced Putin's supporters are behind it.JUST WATCHED Model may be key witness in slaying of Putin critic Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Model may be key witness in slaying of Putin critic 01:53POLICE SHOOTING