(CNN) It's not quite from sea to shining sea, but the latest winter storm gets an "A" for effort (or is that an "E"?).For its sheer size, this one is a monster, stretching from New Mexico to southern New England.If you're keeping track on your maps at home, that's 2,000 miles of snowy misery and 94 million people under some sort of winter weather warning, watch or advisory.65 million people under Winter Storm Warning; another 29 million under Winter Weather Advisory http://t.co/p0EOS6NmCU pic.twitter.com/TRS7fi1HjK"Enough," cries a winter-weary nation.TexasEnough of the sleet and ice in the Dallas area. More than 640 arrivals and departures were canceled at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport on Wednesday. Another 540 have been scrubbed for Thursday."Dear Mr. Heat Miser, please reclaim Dallas from your obnoxious half brother Snow Miser," tweets Dandy Killeen.Dear Mr. Heat Miser, please reclaim Dallas from your obnoxious half brother Snow Miser. #BringOnTheHeat #CBS11Wx pic.twitter.com/6oj6ULFiE5 — Dandy Killeen (@TheDandyMan13) March 5, 2015Photos: The beauty of snow Photos: The beauty of snow The beauty of snow – People trek through a golf course in Durham, North Carolina, as heavy snow falls on Thursday, February 13. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: The beauty of snow The beauty of snow – A man skis in front of the Capitol building in Washington on February 13. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: The beauty of snow The beauty of snow – People run before throwing snowballs in the Dupont Circle neighborhood of Washington on February 13. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: The beauty of snow The beauty of snow – A family walks along letters spelling the word "love," which was carved out of ice covering a Manhattan playground Saturday, February 8, in New York. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: The beauty of snow The beauty of snow – Ice forms on the Niagara River in front of the American Falls on the left and the Canadian Horseshoe Falls on the right on Wednesday, February 5. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: The beauty of snow The beauty of snow – Children play in the snow Tuesday, February 4, in New York's Central Park. Hide Caption 6 of 6OklahomaEnough snow to hide your energy drink."The snow is almost 1 energy shot deep in OKC," tweeted Damon Lane.The snow is almost 1 energy shot deep in OKC pic.twitter.com/aHxN6lOR0d — Damon Lane (@KOCOdamonlane) March 5, 2015KentuckyEnough snow to cover the yard and street. Some areas will get 6 to 10 inches."Snow really coming down in Lexington, KY. A solid 1"+ per hour snowfall rate!" tweets T.G. Shuck.Washington D.C.Enough snow for a snow emergency. The federal government is closed on Thursday."DC snow emergency to go into effect at 7 am Thursday. Move your vehicles from these routes!" tweets Fox 5 DC.DC snow emergency to go into effect at 7 am Thursday. Move your vehicles from these routes! http://t.co/sJkMUjMXwO pic.twitter.com/gauGOL6Eyw — FOX 5 DC (@fox5newsdc) March 4, 2015TennesseeEnough snow to eat ice cream."Just celebrated the coming snow with a bowl of Moose Tracks," tweets country music legend Charlie Daniels.Just celebrated the coming snow with a bowl of Moose Tracks. — Charlie Daniels (@CharlieDaniels) March 5, 2015New MexicoEnough snow to ...Actually, New Mexico is weird.Aaron Goodwin of "Ghost Adventures" fame likes the white stuff. He tweeted: "Snow :)"But he likes hunting for ghosts too so use your own judgment.New JerseyEnough snow for a snow day."Snow day tomorrow. Stay safe and stay warm, everybody," tweets Sean Nunan, the associate principal at Christian Brothers Academy in Lincroft.Snow day tomorrow. Stay safe and stay warm, everybody. @CBALincroft pic.twitter.com/FlOTED1lK5 — Sean Nunan (@NunanCBA) March 5, 2015West Virginia and PennsylvaniaEnough snow and rain to cause problems. The area will get up to 4 inches of rain before it turns to snow.The National Weather Service warned that flooding could be an issue, especially across the lower Ohio Valley and western Mid-Atlantic regions.CNN affiliate WCHS reports a mudslide in Mingo County, West Virginia, sent one woman to the hospital.Mudslide knocks house in Gilbert off foundation; woman taken to hospital http://t.co/oiPFuqvsQP #EyewitnessWV pic.twitter.com/5yo29JUtL0 — Eyewitness News (@wchs8fox11) March 4, 2015MassachusettsEnough snow to go totally nuts.So far this season Boston has seen 105.7 inches -- almost 9 feet -- of snow. That's just 1.9 inches short of the record set nine years ago.More snow is expected from this system, but it's not likely to be enough to break the record as the forecast models indicate the majority of snow will stay south of the city.There is a slim chance of snow on Thursday, followed by days of sunshine and temperatures near 40 by Monday.This video almost makes all this snow worth it. Well not really but it is a pretty cool video. http://t.co/xQP1OSlkJQ — NewportBuzz (@NewportBuzz) March 5, 2015State of sillinessEnough cold to wrap yourself in blankets"Another #SnowDay? Auto-Swaddle yourself in softness," recommends Downy.