(CNN) Tensions spike before Netanyahu speaks to Congress. Plenty of questions surround L.A. shooting. And ISIS supporters threaten Twitter founder.It's Tuesday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayNETANYAHU SPEECHAt times, Israeli leader Benjamin Netanyahu and U.S. President Barack Obama barely seem to tolerate each other. Today's speech by the Israeli Prime Minister probably won't help matters. Netanyahu is expected to spill secret details of the Iran nuclear talks when he addresses Congress. An agreement between Tehran and six world powers is in its delicate final stage. House Speaker John Boehner blindsided the White House by inviting the Israeli leader without advance notice.LOS ANGELES SHOOTINGVideo evidence: Lots of questions surround the shooting of a man by L.A. cops over the weekend. Police say the man reached for an officer's gun, which prompted other officers to open fire. There was a struggle before the shooting and at least one officer tried to use a stun gun on the man. Two of the officers were wearing and had activated their body cameras, the police chief said. Police say they'll review the video. The district attorney's office is investigating too. The shooting is the latest high-profile incident involving lethal force by police, in the wake of officer-involved killings in Ferguson, Missouri, and New York last year.JUST WATCHED Witness: Officer screamed 'he's reaching for my gun' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Witness: Officer screamed 'he's reaching for my gun' 02:54BOKO HARAMGraphic videos: Islamist extremist group Boko Haram joins ISIS in Islamist extremist group Boko Haram joins ISIS in posting the apparent beheadings of its enemies online . The six-minute video shows two men with their arms tied to their backs. Later, the video switches scenes that show what appear to be the bloody severed heads of the two men placed on their bodies. Boko Haram said the men were suspected spies. The group has released beheading videos before, but never online.JUST WATCHED Boko Haram: What you need to know Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boko Haram: What you need to know 01:57ISIS TWITTERTargeting Twitter: and other Twitter employees for shutting down accounts that promote ISIS. An online illustration shows Dorsey in crosshairs, followed by multiple death threats. Twitter's terms of service forbid hate speech, threats and posts that promote terrorism. Twitter said it is working to confirm whether the threats are serious. ISIS supporters have threatened Twitter founder Jack Dorsey and other Twitter employees for shutting down accounts that promote ISIS. An online illustration shows Dorsey in crosshairs, followed by multiple death threats. Twitter's terms of service forbid hate speech, threats and posts that promote terrorism. Twitter said it is working to confirm whether the threats are serious.ISIS TIKRITFighting back: Iraqi forces have launched an offensive to Iraqi forces have launched an offensive to retake the city of Tikrit from ISIS . Sunni and Shiite militiamen are joining the Iraqi army in the effort, state-run TV reported. ISIS took Tikrit in June, shortly after capturing Iraq's second-largest city, Mosul. The offensive involves around 30,000 fighters. This is the biggest test for an army trying to claw back territory that fell to ISIS last summer after a string of dramatic defeats.JUST WATCHED Iraqi forces battle ISIS for key city Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iraqi forces battle ISIS for key city 02:03Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Faking it: What will an imposter Oscar get you? Quite a bit as it turns out.Wait for it: The shortest GEICO ad ever (if you don't count the extra stuff at the end).Drone wars: Folks are doing some creative things with their quadcopters. Here's a Tie Interceptor from "The Empire Strikes Back."Mars sunset: This is what a sunset on Mars looks like. The pictures were taken by the Opportunity rover.With a Snapchat resume: Answers the question: How do you apply for a Snapchat job.