(CNN) Police raided millionaire heir Robert Durst's home in Houston on Tuesday, a day after he was charged with first-degree murder.Dick DeGuerin, Durst's attorney, confirmed that investigators were searching the home.It was not immediately clear what they were looking for inside Durst's 14th-floor condo, where he has lived for many years, CNN affiliate KTRK-TV reported"I think it's ridiculous for them to be making a search 15 years after Susan Berman was killed, and they're searching a place in Houston," DeGuerin told CNN.Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Robert Durst, a wealthy New York real-estate heir, is escorted into Orleans Parish Prison after his arraignment in New Orleans on Tuesday, March 17. Durst faces felony firearm and drug charges in New Orleans, and he has been charged with first-degree murder in Los Angeles. Investigators say they believe Durst, 71, was behind the slaying of Susan Berman, Durst's longtime friend. Durst is also the focus of the HBO documentary series "The Jinx," which explores his wife's 1982 disappearance and investigators' suspicions that Berman was killed because she knew what happened to her. Durst has long maintained he didn't kill Berman or have anything to do with his wife's disappearance. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Durst is accused of killing Berman inside this Beverly Hills home in 2000. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Berman and Durst in the 1990s. For years, speculation has swirled about who could be responsible for Berman's death. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Durst appears in a Galveston, Texas, courtroom for an unrelated case in 2003. Durst admitted then that he had killed and dismembered Morris Black, a neighbor in Galveston, but he argued he'd shot Black in self-defense during a struggle. A jury found Durst not guilty, but he remained in jail for a time because of a bail jumping charge. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst The front page of the New York Daily News on November 12, 2003. During the trial, Durst testified that he hid out in Galveston and posed as a mute woman because he was afraid as he faced increasing scrutiny, Court TV reported. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Private detectives comb a portion of Galveston Bay in search of Morris Black's remains in February 2002. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Durst's police booking photo in November 2001, after he jumped bail and was arrested in Pennsylvania. Durst was captured for shoplifting a sandwich even though he had hundreds of dollars in his pocket. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Durst, seen here in February 1991, is an heir to a fortune thanks to his family's New York City real estate investments. The Durst Organization was founded by his grandfather and is now run by his brother and cousin. After a civil lawsuit in 2006, Robert Durst cut ties with his family and 10 Manhattan skyscrapers in return for a $65 million settlement, The New York Times reported. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst The front page of the New York Daily News on February 9, 1982. Durst's one-time wife, Kathie, went missing that year, and no one has been charged in her disappearance. Durst has said the last time he saw her was when he dropped her off at a train station in Westchester, New York, so she could head back to medical school in the city. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst An undated photo of Kathie and Robert Durst. Her family has said Robert Durst is to blame for her disappearance and hailed his arrest as a sign they could be close to getting answers. "The dominoes of justice are now starting to fall," Jim McCormack, her brother, said. "Through our faith, hope and prayers the last domino will bring closure and justice for Kathie." Hide Caption 10 of 10Durst will be housed in the dormitory for pretrial mental health patients at Elayn Hunt Correctional Center in St. Gabriel, Louisiana, said Pam Laborde with the Louisiana Department of Corrections. He's facing drug and weapons charges in Louisiana stemming from his arrest there over the weekend.DeGuerin has claimed it's no coincidence authorities moved in to arrest Durst just as the documentary's finale was about to air. And on Tuesday, he said he wasn't surprised about the Houston raid, either."I'm not surprised they're acting like a bunch of Keystone Kops, particularly after being embarrassed by the TV program," he said. "And I'll be even more surprised if they find anything of any evidentiary value whatsoever."A neighbor in Durst's Houston condo complex told KTRK she saw him leave with two suitcases last week, and that his assistant came several days later and took most of his belongings.Prosecutors accuse Durst of "lying in wait" and killing Berman, a crime writer and his longtime confidante, because she was a witness to a crime. She was shot in the head in her Beverly Hills, California, home in December 2000 shortly before investigators were set to speak with her about the disappearance of Durst's first wife in 1982.Durst has long maintained he had nothing to do with Berman's death or his wife's disappearance, though some have questioned whether comments he made at the end of the documentary -- muttering under his breath in the bathroom that he "killed them all" -- could be interpreted as a confession.In a 2003 murder trial, Durst admitted he'd killed a neighbor in Galveston, Texas, and chopped up the body. He was acquitted after his attorneys argued he'd acted in self-defense, though he later served serve nine months in prison on felony weapons charges stemming from that caseDeGuerin told reporters Monday that his client didn't kill Berman."He's ready to end all the rumor and speculation and have a trial," DeGuerin said.But it's unclear when a trial could take place.Durst waived his right to fight extradition to Los Angeles, but because prosecutors in New Orleans are pursuing charges against him, he remains jailed there.Durst drove from Houston to New Orleans a week ago. Investigators believe he planned to travel from there to Cuba, a law enforcement official told CNN.Investigators found a Smith & Wesson .38-caliber revolver and about 147 grams (5.2 ounces) of marijuana in his hotel room, according to court documents. He was booked in New Orleans on charges of possession of a firearm by a convicted felon and possession of a firearm in the presence of a controlled dangerous substance.Court documents filed Tuesday say Durst will receive medications while imprisoned, "including but not limited to hydrocodone as needed for pain."