It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayFERGUSON VIOLENCEProtests became violent in the hours after embattled Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson resigned. He stepped down a week after a Justice Department report slammed his department in the aftermath of the Michael Brown shooting. Jackson's resignation will go into effect March 19. But even though he's about to be out of a job, Jackson will still collect a paycheck. Jackson will receive a severance pay and health insurance for one year, the city said. Jackson's resignation did little to calm tensions. Protests erupted overnight. Shortly after, two officers were shot.SECRET SERVICE AGENTSCrash test: Are U.S. Secret Service agents behaving badly again? The Are U.S. Secret Service agents behaving badly again? The Department of Homeland Security is investigating . Two senior Secret Service agents crashed a car into a White House barricade following a late-night party and it's suspected they had been drinking, sources told CNN. One of them was a top member of President Barack Obama's protective detail, The officers were allowed to go home after a supervisor overruled on-duty law enforcement who wanted to arrest the agents and conduct sobriety tests. The two agents have been reassigned.JUST WATCHED Secret Service Agents crash car outside White House Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Secret Service Agents crash car outside White House 02:36IRAQ ISIS BATTLESFighting for territory: About three-quarters of the besieged Iraqi city of Tikrit is now back in government control , the head of a key paramilitary force taking part in the attack told CNN. The other 25% is in the hands of about 150 ISIS fighters who continue to hold out. While Iraqi forces piled the pressure on ISIS in Tikrit, the extremist group continued to flex its muscles in Iraq's western Anbar province. ISIS launched a new offensive on the city of Ramadi, west of Baghdad, yesterday morning. Officials believe "this is an ISIS response to the Tikrit operation."JUST WATCHED Iraqi troops, Shia militias gain ground on Tikrit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iraqi troops, Shia militias gain ground on Tikrit 02:04BIN LADEN IMAGESRare glimpse: We're getting a rare peek at We're getting a rare peek at Osama bin Laden's hideout in Afghanistan . The photographs were quietly introduced last month in Manhattan federal court as evidence in the terrorism conspiracy trial of bin Laden lieutenant Khaled al-Fawwaz. The pictures offer a rare look inside Osama bin Laden's lair -- years before al Qaeda flew hijacked planes into buildings or bombed U.S. embassies in Africa and even before the FBI placed bin Laden on its Most Wanted List. The date-stamped photographs from 1996 show a healthy, relaxed, sometimes smiling bin Laden, not yet 40, conversing, hiking, videotaping.JUST WATCHED Never-before seen pictures of Osama bin Laden Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Never-before seen pictures of Osama bin Laden 02:45HELICOPTER SEARCHBlack Hawk down: The search is expected to resume today for The search is expected to resume today for seven Marines and four Army aircrew, feared dead after their Black Hawk helicopter crashed in the waters off the Florida Panhandle. Some debris has already been found near Eglin Air Force Base, base spokesman Andy Bourland said. Human remains have also washed ashore. No one is saying what caused the accident, but there's no indication of anything suspicious. Heavy fog has hindered the search.