(CNN) Lawyers for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev have a potentially life or death decision to make: whether to put the Boston Marathon bomber before a federal jury that will decide his fate.The 21-year-old is facing 30 criminal counts in connection with the events surrounding the 2013 bombing, which left three dead and 260 others injured. Of those charges, 17 carry the death penalty.His lawyers aren't disputing the fact that he did it.Defense attorney Judy Clarke told the jury that Tsarnaev brought a pressure cooker bomb to the marathon and placed it at the finish line. He was there when a police officer was killed and also involved in a shootout with police."It was him," Clarke told jurors at opening statements earlier this month.The defense's argument: that the then 19-year-old was influenced and enlisted by his older, self-radicalized brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, to commit acts of terror.On Tuesday, one day after federal prosecutors rested after calling more than 90 witnesses , defense lawyers rested their case without calling Tsarnaev to the stand.Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A jury condemned Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to death on Friday, May 15, for his role in killing four people and wounding hundreds more in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. See photos that were released as evidence in his trial. Hide Caption 1 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This undated photo of a young Tsarnaev with his brother, Tamerlan, was shown by the defense in the sentencing phase of the trial. Tamerlan died after being shot by police and run over by a car driven by his brother in the massive manhunt that followed the bombings. Hide Caption 2 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Katie Russell met Tamerlan Tsarnaev at a nightclub and dropped out of college to marry him. Her mother, Judith Russell, testified that Tamerlan came between Katie and her family and that Katie became isolated. She eventually converted to Islam and changed her name to Karima Tsarnaeva. She was the breadwinner. But when company came for dinner, she cooked, served the men and then retired to another room. Hide Caption 3 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This collection of photos of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in his wrestling days was introduced by the defense. Hide Caption 4 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This photo of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, recovered from his computer, was shown during the sentencing phase. Hide Caption 5 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image shows victims' positions in the crowd prior to the Boston Marathon bombings on April 15, 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev "flips the bird" in a jail cell during his first arraignment on July 10, 2013. The image was presented to jurors in the sentencing phase of his trial. Hide Caption 7 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev poses in front of a black standard adopted by various militant Islamist groups in this Instagram photo that was entered as evidence. Hide Caption 8 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say Tsarnaev was a self-radicalized jihadist who pored over militant writings, including the article "How to Build a Bomb in the Kitchen of Your Mom." It was found on his laptop and other devices, part of a full-edition download of Inspire magazine, a glossy English-language propaganda tool put out by al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Hide Caption 9 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This Russian manual on how to fire a handgun was found in the apartment where Tsarnaev's brother, Tamerlan, lived. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 10 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This copy of The Sovereign, which calls itself the "newspaper of the resistance," was also found in Tamerlan Tsarnaev's apartment. Hide Caption 11 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Pictured here is a box of bullets found on a street after the shootout in Watertown. The brothers' fingerprints were on the box, prosecutors said. Hide Caption 12 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A pressure cooker was embedded in the side of a resident's Honda during the Watertown shootout. Hide Caption 13 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos of the Watertown shootout were entered into evidence. Neighbors came to their windows and then retreated. One grabbed his infant son and headed toward the back of his house with his wife. Another grabbed a camera and took photographs from an upstairs window. Hide Caption 14 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence The Tsarnaevs had carjacked a Mercedes SUV in Watertown before the shootout. The vehicle was covered in bulletholes, and the rear window was shattered. Hide Caption 15 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This unexploded pipe bomb was found at the scene of the shootout between police and the Tsarnaev brothers in Watertown. Hide Caption 16 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said these boards were attached to the boat where police found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding. A carved message reads, "Stop killing our innocent people and we will stop." Hide Caption 17 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Smashed phones and an ATM card owned by carjacking victim Dun Meng were in the yard where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found. Hide Caption 18 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this surveillance image shows Tsarnaev visiting an ATM hours before a police chase and chaotic shootout in which more than 200 rounds were fired. Hide Caption 19 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Another view of Tsarnaev's visit to the ATM. Hide Caption 20 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Exhibits related to the shooting death of MIT Officer Sean Collier were introduced to the jury on Wednesday, March 11. This image from the crime scene appears to show a bloody gun. Hide Caption 21 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This burned tank top and yellow hoodie belonged to bombing survivor Jessica Kensky. Hide Caption 22 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this Fox Racing logo was from one of the backpacks containing a bomb. Hide Caption 23 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this still image from surveillance video shows Tsarnaev in the UMass Dartmouth gym the day after the bombings. Hide Caption 24 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors showed the jury photos of what they say are Tsarnaev's writings inside the boat he was captured in. Hide Caption 25 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image is from a surveillance camera outside the Forum restaurant in Boston's Copley Square just after the bombing. Hide Caption 26 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors presented two Twitter accounts linked to Tsarnaev that, they said, showed targeting the marathon had been on his mind for at least a year. One account, @J_tsar, contained 1,100 tweets and was the more mainstream of the two. On the day of the 2012 Boston Marathon, a tweet from the account read, "They will spend their money & they will regret it & they will be defeated." Hide Caption 27 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said the second Twitter account is evidence that Tsarnaev led a double life. By day, he was a slacker college sophomore. By night, he was a wannabe jihadist, posting on the account @Al_firdausiA. In one tweet, he urged people to listen to radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki's lectures. "You will gain an unbelievable amount of knowledge," he said in March 2013, just weeks before the bombings. Prosecutors also allege in an indictment that Tsarnaev downloaded al-Awlaki's writings, calling him a "well-known al Qaeda propagandist." Al-Awlaki had been killed in a U.S. drone strike in 2011. Hide Caption 28 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Hide Caption 29 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A Boston Marathon bombing victim is tended to in the street. Hide Caption 30 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Victims at the finish line just after the bombing. Hide Caption 31 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Eight-year-old Martin Richard, the youngest victim , can be seen standing on the rail in the front row. Hide Caption 32 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A closer view of 8-year-old Martin Richard in the crowd before the bombing. Hide Caption 33 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Boston police tend to a wounded child. CNN has chosen not to show the young victim's face. Hide Caption 34 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Mayhem along Boylston Street. Hide Caption 35 of 35An FBI fingerprint investigator testified about numerous pieces of evidence with Tamerlan's fingerprints but not Dzhokhar's. And a computer expert testified about online searches on Tamerlan's computer -- including gun stores, transmitters, fireworks firing system, detonator and Boston Marathon -- in the weeks before the bombing. Similar searches were not found on Dzhokhar's computer.HEAR FROM TSARNAEV?Tsarnaev will not be heard from in the guilt or innocence phase.When an "it was him" strategy is presented on the first day, having the defendant testify doesn't make sense, said Sunny Hostin, former federal prosecutor and CNN legal analyst."This has never been a whodunit type of case," she said. "He has already admitted that he did it."The benefit of putting a defendant like Tsarnaev on the stand would be to show remorse and gain sympathy of the jury, according to legal experts.But putting the defendant up in the guilt or innocence phase allows cross examination from the prosecution, which can be hugely damaging to the defense.Hostin said there are methods for conveying the defense argument made at the opening statements without putting Tsarnaev on the stand."You will want to put in testimony from his friends, his brother's wife. You almost want to build a character witness," Hostin said.Even an anecdotal account to follow the defense's take on the trajectory of his upbringing could be beneficial, she added: "You want someone like a teacher to say 'he was a good student and then he moved in with his brother and then he changed.'"ASSESS THE DEFENDANTThomas Ullmann, a law professor and Connecticut defense attorney who has worked on multiple capital cases, says a lawyer is constantly assessing, from day one, whether a defendant will make a good witness."It's not necessarily based on perception of guilt or innocence," Ullmann said, but rather how well they can communicate the defense.Behind closed doors, defense attorneys are getting to know the client. They analyze how a defendant reacts to questions and responds to the legal team."One of the things you look for in a defendant in a death penalty case is remorse and an acceptance of responsibility," Ullmann said. "For Tsarnaev, his lawyers are looking for the duress of being under the influence of his older brother."Hostin agreed, saying his lawyers will be gauging what he would say on the stand."If he is totally radicalized, gets on the stand and rather than plea for his life, says terrible things, he will die." Hostin said. "If he gets on the stand with any type of remorse and plays ball and says, 'He wanted me to do it. I don't believe any of those things,' then there is a slight chance."BODY LANGUAGEEven if Tsarnaev never takes the stand, the jury will be affected by his body language throughout the trial, legal experts say."Jurors are looking the entire time," Ullmann said. "Some glare and stare at the defendant the entire trial.""Body language is significant in a case like this. Juries watch everything that is happening from the lawyers to the defendant's demeanor," Hostin said.Tsarnaev has been described as looking bored in court, without showing obvious emotion. He often sits staring ahead, slouched down in a chair, or resting his head on his hand and playing with his beard."I can't imagine that the jury hasn't been staring at him and trying to answer the question: 'Why would he do something like this?'" Hostin said. If he hasn't shown emotion during witness testimony, "It is going to be very problematic for him ... the jury is thinking, 'This is a cold-blooded killer.' "PENALTY PHASEIf the jury hears from Tsarnaev at all, it will be in the penalty phase, in which the jury decides between the death penalty or life in prison, after a guilty verdict.Ullmann said that testifying in the second phase allows for a separation for the jury. The evidence, photos, videos and emotional testimony will largely be behind and not brought up again."Once you separate the two phases, it becomes clear: guilt isn't an issue. It's whether he should die or spend life in prison." Ullmann said. "It is a very different analysis for the jury."Hostin said the strategy for hearing from Tsarnaev in the second phase would be to have him connect with one person on the jury and build sympathy."You want to show him as a kid going to school in the United States, somewhat Americanized, that will be in line with the jurors who have children," Hostin said. "You want them to think, 'What happens if my kid gets in with the wrong crew?'"In capital cases, just one juror who does not think the defendant deserves the death penalty can allow the defendant to live.HIS LAWYERUltimately, the decision to put Tsarnaev on the stand will be made by his legal team.Clarke, one of the most famous defense attorneys in the country, has represented defendants in notorious cases.Clarke's first capital case was defending Susan Smith, an emotionally disturbed South Carolina mother who strapped her two boys into her car and let them roll into a lake, drowning them. The jury spared Smith's life.Ullmann said defense attorneys look up to Clarke."She is known for getting to know her clients very well," Hostin said. "She is very affectionate and becomes a mother figure for clients.""If you have a trusting relationship with your client and build up integrity, when it comes time to advise someone, you want the defendant to follow your advice," Ullmann said.Clarke has also defended Ted Kaczynski, also known as the Unabomber; Eric Rudolph, the man responsible for the 1996 Olympics bombings in Atlanta; Zacarias Moussaoui, the 9/11 conspirator; and Jared Lee Loughner, the Arizona man whose deadly shooting rampage wounded former U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords.All those cases were settled through plea bargains that took the death penalty off the table, before the jury could ever hear from the defendants.Said Hostin: "If you're facing the death penalty, you want Judy."