It's Friday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayFERGUSONPrayers went up, the rain came down and tensions cooled overnight in Ferguson, Missouri . It was a far cry from 24 hours earlier, when tempers flared and two police officers took bullets in the St. Louis suburb. Investigators believe they have identified two people they want to question in the shooting, and one of them might be the shooter, a law enforcement official said. The gunfire erupted during protests following the resignation of Police Chief Thomas Jackson on Wednesday. The department has been under fire since the Michael Brown shooting in August and a scathing Justice Department report that documents a pattern of racial discrimination.SECRET SERVICELots of questions: The circumstances are murky in the The circumstances are murky in the investigation of two Secret Service agents who are accused of crashing a car into a White House barricade. The agents in question are George Ogilvie, a top supervisor in the Washington field office, and Mark Connolly, a high-ranking member of President Barack Obama's personal security detail, law enforcement officials said. While there's no doubt the two agents were returning from a farewell party, it's still unclear when, exactly, the agents were stopped, and what gave the impression that they weren't entirely sober. This is the fourth scandal for the agency in three years.JUST WATCHED Secret Service agents crashed car into W.H. barricade Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Secret Service agents crashed car into W.H. barricade 02:22ISIS RAMADIUnder assault: While Iraqi forces appear poised to take Tikrit back from ISIS in north, it's a different story While Iraqi forces appear poised to take Tikrit back from ISIS in north, it's a different story west of Baghdad in Ramad i. More than 40 Iraqi soldiers were killed when ISIS blew up the Iraqi army headquarters just outside the town, an Anbar provincial leader said. ISIS launched a new offensive on Ramadi on Wednesday morning. Officials believe this is an ISIS response to the Tikrit operation that is ongoing in the north.JUST WATCHED Sunni fighter: Tikrit will be ISIS' graveyard Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sunni fighter: Tikrit will be ISIS' graveyard 02:38FRATERNITY FALLOUTSAE again?: Another chapter of the Another chapter of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity is under fire for alleged racial slurs -- this time in Seattle. University of Washington students say fraternity members hurled insults at them during a "Black Lives Matter" protest last month. Michael Hickey, president of the fraternity's university chapter, said they were notified of the protest incident on February 25 -- the same day it happened. However, he said, an investigation determined fraternity members were not behind the insults. The culprits were on a nearby sidewalk and not on the fraternity house property, he said.Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity accused of racial slurs at University of WashingtonPAUL ALLEN SHIPWay down under: It was bombed to the bottom of the ocean 70 years ago, sunk by U.S. warplanes during World War II. Earlier this month, Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen and a team of researchers It was bombed to the bottom of the ocean 70 years ago, sunk by U.S. warplanes during World War II. Earlier this month, Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen and a team of researchers found Japan's massive Musashi battleship in the Philippines' Sibuyan Sea after an eight-year search. Folks watching on CNN.com last night were treated to a live tour. We have some of the highlights for you.JUST WATCHED Underwater view of sunken WWII battleship Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Underwater view of sunken WWII battleship 01:00Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Blown away: If you're looking for something amazing, this won't burst your bubble.Cuteness alert: It's hard to believe that there could be anything more adorable than this little critter.Things you should never do: Stick your tongue in a Venus flytrap.Dog versus vacuum: This is a classic match up: Lily the boxer against a vicious vacuum cleaner.Lobbyist: Watch a future tennis star get the drop on Roger Federer.