(CNN) Tunisia deals with terror attack aftermath. Virginia students question arrest of black student. And Obama and Netanyahu are on the outs.It's Thursday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayTUNISIA MUSEUM ATTACKTerrorists have struck at the heart of Tunisia's tourist industry, opening fire at a museum in Tunis, the capital. Gunmen killed 19 people and sent tourists scrambling for cover. Tunisian security forces killed two attackers, but warned that three suspects were still on the loose. Polish, Italian, German and Spanish tourists were among those killed, Prime Minister Habib Essid said yesterday. Another 20 foreign tourists and two Tunisians were wounded in the attack.VIRGINIA POLICE BRUTALITY ALLEGATIONSRacial injustice?: The governor of Virginia has ordered an investigation after The governor of Virginia has ordered an investigation after a black student at the University of Virginia was injured during an arrest early yesterday. A picture from the scene shows a bloodied Martese Johnson during his arrest. He was charged with public intoxication and obstruction of justice, the Virginia Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control said in a statement. The special agents involved have been assigned to administrative duties. Johnson is a third-year student double majoring in Italian and media studies. He has no criminal record, according to his attorney. A massive crowd gathered last night to protest how Johnson was treated.JUST WATCHED Uproar after black UVA student injured during arrest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Uproar after black UVA student injured during arrest 03:04ROBERT DURSTCase details: Robert Durst appeared to be Robert Durst appeared to be prepared for life on the lam when FBI agents arrested him in New Orleans. The millionaire heir, according to court documents, had more than $40,000 in cash with him -- and a neck-to-head latex mask to alter his appearance. The new details about Durst, who's been charged with first-degree murder, emerged yesterday in court documents supporting a search warrant for his Houston home. He's being held on drug and weapons charges in Louisiana as he awaits extradition to Los Angeles to face charges in the 2000 killing of his close friend.JUST WATCHED Is Durst Audio Admissible? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is Durst Audio Admissible? 01:21WHITE HOUSE NETANYAHUOn the outs: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's election victory was good for him, but probably Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's election victory was good for him, but probably not so good for U.S.-Israeli relations . President Barack Obama and Netanyahu already had a tumultuous relationship before the Israeli prime minister ruled out the creation of a Palestinian state. That stance could put the relationship in even further jeopardy. One senior administration official said "we have to reassess our options going forward." Another senior U.S. official told CNN that Netanyahu's nixing of Palestinian statehood "could change things" for the U.S.-Israel relationship. Stay tuned.JUST WATCHED Netanyahu: There will be no Palestinian state Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Netanyahu: There will be no Palestinian state 02:05JAPAN KENNEDY THREATSU.S. ambassador threatened: Japanese authorities are investigating death Japanese authorities are investigating death threats against the American ambassador to Japan, Caroline Kennedy , Japanese media reports and international wire services reported. Local police are looking into phone calls placed last month to the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo threatening to kill Kennedy, according to local media reports. CNN could not immediately confirm the reports. News of the threats come a couple of weeks after the American ambassador to South Korea was slashed by an assailant with a 10-inch knife at an event in Seoul.JUST WATCHED Death threats made against Caroline Kennedy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Death threats made against Caroline Kennedy 02:10Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Awesome Aurora Borealis: Astronaut Terry Virts captures the spectacular Northern Lights from the International Space Station.Bored on a plane: While you were busy ignoring the safety instructions on your last flight, this guy was making good use of his time.Timid critter: This raccoon is adorably cautious.Treadmill dancing: The things people will do for Internet fame.It's good to be alive: Charles the bird is one happy feathered friend.