Boston (CNN) When the first bomb went off, everybody turned their heads in startled surprise -- except for one person. The young man with the white, turned-around ball cap had been standing by a tree and he quickly strolled away, leaving his backpack behind.He was looking back over his shoulder when the second explosion came.Federal prosecutors on Monday showed a video compilation of images, some never before seen by the public. They were taken from surveillance cameras along the route leading to the finish line of the Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013, the day three people were killed and more than 240 people were injured by hot shrapnel, nails and BBs from two pressure cooker bombs that had been hidden in backpacks and dropped amid the crowd.The man prosecutors say is defendant Dzhokhar Tsarnaev strolls along the sidewalk lining Boylston Street, unnoticed by the cheering people around him. He stops by the tree and looks to his right, and then to his left. He drops a heavy backpack to his feet, a few feet behind a line of children. He makes a phone call.Prosecutors say that 19-second call was to his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who also is shown on the video. They arrive together, turning the corner from Gloucester Street onto Boylston. Then they split up.Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A jury condemned Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to death on Friday, May 15, for his role in killing four people and wounding hundreds more in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. See photos that were released as evidence in his trial. Hide Caption 1 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This undated photo of a young Tsarnaev with his brother, Tamerlan, was shown by the defense in the sentencing phase of the trial. Tamerlan died after being shot by police and run over by a car driven by his brother in the massive manhunt that followed the bombings. Hide Caption 2 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Katie Russell met Tamerlan Tsarnaev at a nightclub and dropped out of college to marry him. Her mother, Judith Russell, testified that Tamerlan came between Katie and her family and that Katie became isolated. She eventually converted to Islam and changed her name to Karima Tsarnaeva. She was the breadwinner. But when company came for dinner, she cooked, served the men and then retired to another room. Hide Caption 3 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This collection of photos of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in his wrestling days was introduced by the defense. Hide Caption 4 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This photo of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, recovered from his computer, was shown during the sentencing phase. Hide Caption 5 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image shows victims' positions in the crowd prior to the Boston Marathon bombings on April 15, 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev "flips the bird" in a jail cell during his first arraignment on July 10, 2013. The image was presented to jurors in the sentencing phase of his trial. Hide Caption 7 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev poses in front of a black standard adopted by various militant Islamist groups in this Instagram photo that was entered as evidence. Hide Caption 8 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say Tsarnaev was a self-radicalized jihadist who pored over militant writings, including the article "How to Build a Bomb in the Kitchen of Your Mom." It was found on his laptop and other devices, part of a full-edition download of Inspire magazine, a glossy English-language propaganda tool put out by al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Hide Caption 9 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This Russian manual on how to fire a handgun was found in the apartment where Tsarnaev's brother, Tamerlan, lived. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 10 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This copy of The Sovereign, which calls itself the "newspaper of the resistance," was also found in Tamerlan Tsarnaev's apartment. Hide Caption 11 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Pictured here is a box of bullets found on a street after the shootout in Watertown. The brothers' fingerprints were on the box, prosecutors said. Hide Caption 12 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A pressure cooker was embedded in the side of a resident's Honda during the Watertown shootout. Hide Caption 13 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos of the Watertown shootout were entered into evidence. Neighbors came to their windows and then retreated. One grabbed his infant son and headed toward the back of his house with his wife. Another grabbed a camera and took photographs from an upstairs window. Hide Caption 14 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence The Tsarnaevs had carjacked a Mercedes SUV in Watertown before the shootout. The vehicle was covered in bulletholes, and the rear window was shattered. Hide Caption 15 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This unexploded pipe bomb was found at the scene of the shootout between police and the Tsarnaev brothers in Watertown. Hide Caption 16 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said these boards were attached to the boat where police found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding. A carved message reads, "Stop killing our innocent people and we will stop." Hide Caption 17 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Smashed phones and an ATM card owned by carjacking victim Dun Meng were in the yard where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found. Hide Caption 18 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this surveillance image shows Tsarnaev visiting an ATM hours before a police chase and chaotic shootout in which more than 200 rounds were fired. Hide Caption 19 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Another view of Tsarnaev's visit to the ATM. Hide Caption 20 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Exhibits related to the shooting death of MIT Officer Sean Collier were introduced to the jury on Wednesday, March 11. This image from the crime scene appears to show a bloody gun. Hide Caption 21 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This burned tank top and yellow hoodie belonged to bombing survivor Jessica Kensky. Hide Caption 22 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this Fox Racing logo was from one of the backpacks containing a bomb. Hide Caption 23 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this still image from surveillance video shows Tsarnaev in the UMass Dartmouth gym the day after the bombings. Hide Caption 24 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors showed the jury photos of what they say are Tsarnaev's writings inside the boat he was captured in. Hide Caption 25 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image is from a surveillance camera outside the Forum restaurant in Boston's Copley Square just after the bombing. Hide Caption 26 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors presented two Twitter accounts linked to Tsarnaev that, they said, showed targeting the marathon had been on his mind for at least a year. One account, @J_tsar, contained 1,100 tweets and was the more mainstream of the two. On the day of the 2012 Boston Marathon, a tweet from the account read, "They will spend their money & they will regret it & they will be defeated." Hide Caption 27 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said the second Twitter account is evidence that Tsarnaev led a double life. By day, he was a slacker college sophomore. By night, he was a wannabe jihadist, posting on the account @Al_firdausiA. In one tweet, he urged people to listen to radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki's lectures. "You will gain an unbelievable amount of knowledge," he said in March 2013, just weeks before the bombings. Prosecutors also allege in an indictment that Tsarnaev downloaded al-Awlaki's writings, calling him a "well-known al Qaeda propagandist." Al-Awlaki had been killed in a U.S. drone strike in 2011. Hide Caption 28 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Hide Caption 29 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A Boston Marathon bombing victim is tended to in the street. Hide Caption 30 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Victims at the finish line just after the bombing. Hide Caption 31 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Eight-year-old Martin Richard, the youngest victim , can be seen standing on the rail in the front row. Hide Caption 32 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A closer view of 8-year-old Martin Richard in the crowd before the bombing. Hide Caption 33 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Boston police tend to a wounded child. CNN has chosen not to show the young victim's face. Hide Caption 34 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Mayhem along Boylston Street. Hide Caption 35 of 35"We called them Black Hat and White Hat," testified Anthony Imel, a digital forensics analyst for the FBI. Prosecutors say Black Hat is Tamerlan Tsarnaev, at 26 the older of the pair. He died in a gunbattle with police a few days after the bombings."White Hat," they say, is the defendant. At the time, "Jahar" Tsarnaev was 19. Now he is on trial for his life; 17 of the 30 counts against him carry a possible death sentence.Tsarnaev has acknowledged that he and Tamerlan were responsible for setting off the bombs near the marathon's finish line. By taking responsibility for the carnage, he is hoping the jury will spare his life after hearing the full story.Federal prosecutors say it was the worst act of terror on U.S. soil since 9/11. Jurors were told 118 people were carted off in ambulances and police vehicles within 20 minutes of the blasts.On the third day of testimony, prosecutors began to build their case in earnest, moving from the devastation caused by the bombs to the alleged motive behind them: terrorism.This is where prosecutors and defense attorneys disagree.The defense maintains that Tsarnaev was a stooge for his older brother. Questioning an FBI analyst in what had been limited cross-examination, defense attorney Miriam Conrad underscored a point: The video shows Tamerlan leading, and Jahar following several paces back.Jurors also heard more heart-wrenching testimony from the victims of the bombs. They watched videos of the brothers planting their backpacks and viewed an animation showing the path they took.They watched more videos showing Tsarnaev paying $3.49 for a half-gallon of milk at a Whole Foods store in Cambridge less than a half-hour after the bombings. And they saw him enter the gym on the campus of UMass Dartmouth shortly after 9 p.m. on April 16, the day after the bombings.Surveillance video revealedThe surveillance video was collected from businesses and through social media by FBI agents in the aftermath of the bombing.It shows Tamerlan Tsarnaev walking past the Forum restaurant on his way to the finish line, where he dropped his homemade bomb, fashioned from a pressure cooker packed with gunpowder, nails and BBs.He is followed by Dzhokar, who lingers in front of Forum for about four minutes.There is an explosion and everybody's head turns toward the finish line -- except Dzhokar Tsarnaev's. He casually walks away from his spot by the tree, without his backpack. He is glancing back when the second bomb goes off 12 seconds after the first. It is not yet 3 p.m.Then he can be seen running with the crowd fleeing the bombs he and his brother set off.Prosecutors: Tweets show plot was on Tsarnaev's mind for monthsOn Monday, prosecutors also presented evidence they said showed targeting the marathon had been on Tsarnaev's mind for at least a year.Jurors viewed posts from two Twitter accounts that FBI forensics analysts linked to Tsarnaev.The first, @J_tsar, is fairly well known."I shall die young," @J_tsar tweeted on April 12, 2012."They will spend their money & they will regret it & they will be defeated," he tweeted on April 16, the day of the 2012 Boston Marathon.Prosecutors also revealed a second account, they say is evidence Tsarnaev led a double life. By day he was a slacker college sophomore who played video games and worked out at the gym with his friends. But late at night, he was a wannabe jihadist, posting on the second account, @Al_firdausiA.The name evokes the highest level of paradise a martyr can achieve. He called himself Ghuraba, the stranger. In one tweet, he urged people to listen to radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki's lectures."You will gain an unbelievable amount of knowledge," he said in March 2013, just weeks before the bombings. Prosecutors also allege in the indictment that Tsarnaev downloaded al-Awlaki's writings, calling him a "well-known al Qaeda propagandist." He was killed in a U.S. drone strike in 2011.Tsarnaev's other account, which was more mainstream, featured 1,100 tweets. Among them, the infamous note at 8 p.m. on the day of the bombing: "Ain't no love in the heart of the city, stay safe people." His final tweet, on April 16, the day after the bombing, was, "I'm a stress free kind of guy."'There was smoke, there was blood'Jurors also heard more wrenching stories of bombing victims st what suddenly has become and unusually fast paced trial. Twenty-six people have testified in three days, including bombing victims, first responders and FBI agents and analysts.Monday began with dramatic testimony from a nurse and newlywed who lost both her legs; her husband also lost a leg.Jessica Kensky told the jury she didn't see or hear the explosion but felt as if she'd been launched on a rocket ship."I remember being happy, I remember feeling sunlight on my face. I remember feeling free," she said. And then came the explosion."I just felt like I was on a rocket," she said. "There was smoke, there was blood. I went into nurse mode. I was focused on my husband. His foot and part of his leg was completely detached, hanging on by a thread."She used her purse strap to make a tourniquet to stop the bleeding from her husband's leg.Then a man came to her and said, "Ma'am, you're on fire, you're on fire," she recounted.She lost one leg almost immediately. She made a difficult decision to have the second amputated in January."I wanted to paint my toenails and put my feet in the sand. I wanted all of those things, and to lose my second leg was a gut-wrenching decision," she said.Danling Zhou, a friend of bombing victim Lingzi Lu, testified that the bomb tore a gaping wound in her abdomen. She said she pushed on her midsection "with all the strength I had" to keep her internal organs from spilling out.She looked at Lu and thought she would be fine. The bomb blew out her eardrums and she couldn't hear her friend screaming but she could see her. Then Lu lapsed into unconsciousness with her hands over her face.At the hospital, she asked about Lu every time she woke up. Finally, a friend told her that Lingzi was dead."I guess everyone found out earlier," she said. "They were trying to protect me, so they didn't tell me."A physician who happened to be watching the marathon tried to help Lu, whose leg had been slashed from her hip to her ankle. When he heard what he called "agonal breathing," literally her last gasps, he said he knew he couldn't save her.In her purse, he said, he found a piece of metal from the bomb. It was still warm.