(CNN) A German tabloid leaks purported excerpts from Germanwings Flight 9525 cockpit voice recorder audio. Iranian nuclear talks become more intense. And March Madness has boiled down to the Final Four.It's Monday, and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day.GERMANWINGS INVESTIGATIONThe pilot of Germanwings Flight 9525 yelled these words to the co-pilot as the flight descended, according to a German tabloid. "Bild" published what it claimed was a summary of a transcript from the plane's cockpit voice recorder. It said co-pilot Andreas Lubitz locked the flight deck door and put the plane on a rapid descent into the mountains after the pilot left to go to the bathroom. The pilot banged on the door and pleaded with Lubitz while passengers screamed. The French agency investigating the crash said it was dismayed by the leak of the voice recording transcript.IRAN NUCLEAR TALKSDeadline nears: Tuesday's the deadline for an agreement, and Tuesday's the deadline for an agreement, and talks over Iran's nuclear ambitions heating up. Western officials say the details are getting clearer, but there are snags over limits on Iranian research and the pace of lifting U.N. sanctions. At least one person doesn't want to see a deal -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the potential agreement "is fulfilling our deepest fears." And Congress is still threatening additional sanctions against Iran, which could scuttle the deal.JUST WATCHED Speaker Boehner's new warning to Iran Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Speaker Boehner's new warning to Iran 01:07NEW YORK BLASTBodies found: Crews searching the site of last week's building blast and collapse in New York's East Village Crews searching the site of last week's building blast and collapse in New York's East Village found two bodies in the rubble yesterday. Officials believe they are the two people reported missing after the blast. The men were thought to have been at a sushi restaurant when the explosion occurred. One of them was on a date at the restaurant and had gone to the back to pay when the explosion hit.JUST WATCHED Powerful images of the NYC building collapse Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Powerful images of the NYC building collapse 01:01INDIANA LAWNot changing it: Indiana Gov. Mike Pence is standing firm. Concerns that the state's new Indiana Gov. Mike Pence is standing firm. Concerns that the state's new "religious freedom" law will allow businesses to turn away LGBT customers are just the result of "misinformation and misunderstanding," he says. Pence also said he wouldn't add protections based on sexual orientation to the state's anti-discrimination laws. His decision to sign into law the "religious freedom" measure that allows Indiana businesses to cite their religious beliefs as a legal defense has triggered an intense backlash against his state.MARCH MADNESSFantastic four: Kentucky, Duke, Michigan State and Wisconsin. They'll face off in the Final Four in Indianapolis. First tip-off on Saturday: Duke vs. Michigan. Then top seed Kentucky battles Wisconsin. Kentucky is undefeated this season and is trying to become the NCAA's first undefeated champion in decades. Maybe the nation will be treated to a Kentucky-Duke final. Kentucky, Duke, Michigan State and Wisconsin. They'll face off in the Final Four in Indianapolis. First tip-off on Saturday: Duke vs. Michigan. Then top seed Kentucky battles Wisconsin. Kentucky is undefeated this season and is trying to become the NCAA's first undefeated champion in decades. Maybe the nation will be treated to a Kentucky-Duke final. Exciting things happen when these two teams get together in the tournament.Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Matt Costello (10) and Travis Trice (20) of the Michigan State Spartans celebrate defeating the Louisville Cardinals 76 to 70 in overtime of the East Regional Final of the 2015 NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament at Carrier Dome on March 29, 2015 in Syracuse, New York. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Members of the Gonzaga Bulldogs look on in the closing minutes against the Duke Blue Devils during the South Regional Final of the 2015 NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament at NRG Stadium on March 29, 2015 in Houston, Texas. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Marshall Plumlee (40) of the Duke Blue Devils and Kyle Dranginis (3) of the Gonzaga Bulldogs go for a rebound during the South Regional Final of the 2015 NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament at NRG Stadium on March 29, 2015 in Houston, Texas. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Willie Cauley-Stein of the Kentucky Wildcats dunks against the Georgia Bulldogs at Stegeman Coliseum on March 3, 2015 in Athens, Georgia. Kentucky is favorite to win the NCAA Tournament -- known as "March Madness." Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament NBA Most Valuable Player candidate Stephen Curry (center) shined during the 2008 NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament. Here he celebrates a second-round win over Georgetown with his Davidson College teammates after a 25-point second-half performance. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament NBA All-Star teammates Curry (right) and Klay Thompson of the Golden State Warriors both played at unheralded college programs. Curry's Davidson has an undergraduate enrollment of 1,850 while Thompson went to Washington State. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Two-time NBA champion Norris Cole was known for his defensive prowess while playing at Cleveland State in the Horizon League. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Former Butler player Gordon Hayward was one shot away from a national championship in 2010. He is now a starter with the NBA's Utah Jazz. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Bryce Drew made his mark in the 1998 NCAA Tournament playing for Valparaiso University, with his father Homer Drew coaching. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament As a coach, Bryce Drew (drawing up a play for Kevin Van Wijk #55 and Bobby Capobianco #5) has led Valparaiso to its record number of wins in just his fourth season in charge. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Jamaica-born Vashil Fernandez, a 6-foot-10-inch senior center with the Valparaiso Crusaders, will look to shine during March Madness. Hide Caption 11 of 11Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of other things that have the Internet buzzing.Brady jumps: Wonder if the hearts of New England Patriots fans everywhere stopped when they watched this video of Tom Brady jumping off a cliff.My cat bodyguard: Watch a cat leap to this baby's defense.Wake up: This German shepherd wants his playmate to wake up and play right now!Dancing machine: Watch this kid break out some nifty dance moves at a recent NCAA men's basketball tournament game.