Boston (CNN) An 8-year-old boy who once urged people to "stop hurting each other" was literally blown apart by a homemade bomb as he watched the 2013 Boston Marathon with his family, jurors heard Monday.Federal prosecutors rested their case with grisly testimony about how the bomb Dzhokar Tsarnaev placed near the marathon's finish line tore through the bodies of Martin Richard and Lingzi Lu, a 23-year-old grad student.A second bomb placed by Tsarnaev's brother, Tamerlan, killed Krystle Campbell, a 29-year-old restaurant manager. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a gun battle with police three days after the bombing.Martin's shredded, blood-stained clothes were displayed Monday in court.No part of the boy's 69-pound body was left untouched by the explosion, said Henry Neilds, Boston's chief medical examiner. Neilds peformed the autopsy and concluded that Martin bled to death after suffering blast injuries to his torso and extremities.Several jurors cried openly in court, and the boy's parents sat silently in the audience. Bill Richard lowered his head and held his wife, Denise, close during the graphic testimony and display of gruesome photographs.JUST WATCHED Remembering 8-year-old bombing victim Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remembering 8-year-old bombing victim 03:20In his own testimony, Bill Richard had been unable to find the words to describe what he saw when he rushed to his son's side after the bomb went off:"I saw a little boy who had his body severely damaged by an explosion," Richard told jurors earlier in the trial"This is difficult," he added, pausing to take a breath. "I just knew from what I saw that there was no chance. The color of his skin, and so on."Neilds gave an official account of the wounds the boy's father found so hard to describe:The bomb severed Martin's spinal cord and abdominal aorta; severed and exposed his lower intestines; ruptured his stomach; nicked or tore his liver, left kidney and adrenal gland; nearly tore off his left arm at the forearm; snapped a bone in his right leg; fractured and exposed his ribs; and bruised a lung.Martin had third-degree burns on his back, buttock and left calf. His body was covered with scrapes, bruises and perforations from blast debris.Many of the injuries were likely to result in death. But the most serious was his severed aorta. It is a major blood vessel, Neilds said, and Martin bled to death in minutes, if not seconds.Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured man is loaded into an ambulance after two bombs went off near the finish line of the Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013. Three people were killed and at least 264 were injured. Hide Caption 1 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man comforts a victim on the sidewalk at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 2 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The second explosion goes off near the finish line. Hide Caption 3 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The first explosion knocked down 78-year-old runner Bill Iffrig at the finish line. He got up a few minutes later and finished the race. Hide Caption 4 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner embraces another woman on the marathon route near Kenmore Square. Hide Caption 5 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Former New England Patriots offensive lineman Joe Andruzzi carries a woman from the scene. Hide Caption 6 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A victim of the first explosion is helped on the sidewalk of Boylston Street. Hide Caption 7 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured person is taken away from the scene in a wheelchair. Hide Caption 8 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A woman kneels and prays at near the finish line. Hide Caption 9 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon People run down Exeter Street after the blasts. Hide Caption 10 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The explosions occurred around 2:45 p.m., about an hour after the first of the race's nearly 27,000 runners had crossed the finish line. Hide Caption 11 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Victims lie on the ground at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 12 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A couple runs from the scene pushing a stroller. Hide Caption 13 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner reacts near Kenmore Square after the explosions. Hide Caption 14 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man's blood-stained feet hang outside an ambulance. Hide Caption 15 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A bystander who was injured in the first explosion is wheeled across the finish line while receiving medical attention from rescue workers. Hide Caption 16 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Carlos Arredondo was at the race handing out American flags to spectators. After the blasts, he helped emergency responders and is credited with helping a man survive serious leg wounds. Hide Caption 17 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The second explosion goes off near the finish line. Hide Caption 18 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police look at blown-out windows. The bombs shook buildings, witnesses said, sending people to seek shelter under tables. Hide Caption 19 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Unclaimed runners' bags fill an area near the marathon finish. Hide Caption 20 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Women desperate to hear from loved ones are unable to get close to the site of the attack. Hide Caption 21 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police and runners stand near Kenmore Square after the attack. Hide Caption 22 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Runners gather near Kenmore Square after the explosions. Hide Caption 23 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An EMT worker is transferred to an ambulance outside a medical tent in Copley Square. Hide Caption 24 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A SWAT team arrives on the scene. Hide Caption 25 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner sits near Kenmore Square after the attack. Hide Caption 26 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Runners who had not yet finished the race are stopped after the explosions. Hide Caption 27 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Victims are helped at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 28 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man in tears is helped at the scene on Boylston Street. Hide Caption 29 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Passersby put pressure on a victim's leg to try to stop the bleeding. Hide Caption 30 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Massachusetts State Police guard an area near Kenmore Square. Hide Caption 31 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Bystanders embrace near the finish line. Hide Caption 32 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police officers gather on Newbury Street. Hide Caption 33 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Women and children are escorted away from the scene. Hide Caption 34 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Bomb squad officials check a possible suspicious device near the scene of the blasts. Hide Caption 35 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A woman is comforted after the blasts. Hide Caption 36 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Two injured women are taken away on stretchers. Hide Caption 37 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured woman is loaded into an ambulance. Hide Caption 38 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon First responders load injured people into an ambulance. Hide Caption 39 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured man is prepared to be moved from a stretcher to an ambulance. Hide Caption 40 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured woman is placed on a stretcher. Hide Caption 41 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner is comforted following the attack. Hide Caption 42 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The Cambridge Police Department's bomb squad investigates unattended personal items left behind after the explosions. Hide Caption 43 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Bystanders check their mobile devices for news of the explosions. Hide Caption 44 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A member of the bomb squad investigates a suspicious item on the road near Kenmore Square. Hide Caption 45 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner in a wheelchair is taken from a triage tent after the explosions went off. Hide Caption 46 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon People comfort each near the site of the blasts. Hide Caption 47 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Racers and race officials stand by after the explosions. Hide Caption 48 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Emergency personnel respond to the scene. Hide Caption 49 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police and emergency crews tend to victims. Hide Caption 50 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured woman is carried away on a stretcher. Hide Caption 51 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man lies on the ground after the incident. Hide Caption 52 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Officials watch as the first explosion goes off on Boylston Street. Hide Caption 53 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Spectators leave the bleachers after the explosions. Hide Caption 54 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police inspect one of the blast sites. Hide Caption 55 of 55Assistant U.S. Attorney Nadine Pellegrini's last question for the government's 91st and final witness was this:"How old was Martin Richards?""He was 8 years old," Neilds said.And then the government rested.Bodies riddled with injuriesEarlier Monday, a deputy from Neilds' office described the injuries to Lingzi Lu.Katherine Lindstrom, who performed Lu's autopsy, said her thighs were perforated by debris spewed from the blast. Lindstrom said she found two shards of metal in Lu's legs, and a third, larger piece that slashed into her leather purse.Metal and other debris, including pellets and small nails, were embedded in Lu's body. The gashes were "perforating," meaning they went completely though, Lindstrom said.The skin from Lu's left thigh was torn away, and the femoral artery and vein were severed, causing her to bleed to death on the sidewalk "relatively quickly, from seconds to minutes."Lindstrom was shown a series of graphic photos, and described the injuries she saw as "gaping," "slashes" and "cavities in the muscle.""In her left thigh you see a large tear through her skin and muscle. It leaves a large hole that goes completely through her thigh."Lingstrom testfied that Lu likely remained conscious until she was near death.A friend, Danling Zhou, told jurors she tried to calm Lu although she was seriously injured herself and holding her abdomen to keep her organs inside."I saw she's yelling. I can't hear, I can only see she's yelling."She said Lu was lying on her back, waving her hand, and at first she was relieved because Lu did not seem badly hurt to her.JUST WATCHED Many remember Boston victim Lingzi Lu Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Many remember Boston victim Lingzi Lu 02:42"It's hard to look at because everybody's injured. I look at her leg, and I think it's better than the man in front of me because he doesn't have a leg anymore. I think she is fine."Last week, jurors heard from Jennifer Hammers, who performed the autopsy on Campbell. Hammers said Campbell's death was a homicide caused by blast injuries to the legs and torso. She said it probably took less than a minute for Campbell to bleed to death on the sidewalk.Several jurors cried and others appeared upset on Thursday as they were shown graphic photos of Campbell, who was standing in front of Marathon Sports on Boylston Street near the finish line when the bomb placed by Tamerlan Tsarnaev exploded.Photos and security surveillance videos introduced during the trial show Dzhokhar Tsarnaev sliding a backpack containing a pressure cooker bomb off his shoulder near the Forum restaurant, a block away. That explosion, 12 seconds after the first, killed Martin and Lu.Hammers went on to explain how the homemade bombs maim and kill and to provide the gruesome details of the damage done to Campbell's body. The initial injuries came as a result of a shock wave from the blast: Campbell's tongue was bruised from being forced against her teeth, the femur of her left leg snapped and the bones in her left foot were crushed."The seams of her blue jeans were pressed into her body with such force, they caused bruising," Hammers said.Other injuries were caused by bomb materials and debris sent flying through the air. Campbell's hair was singed, the skin on the back of her neck was abraded, and she had a large third-degree burn on her back. The top of her right arm was burned.She had "big, gaping holes in her legs," Hammers said. The gashes were as large as 10 inches.A pellet the size of a BB was embedded in her ear, and other BBs and metal fragments were found in wounds that penetrated her muscles. BBs also riddled her clothes."Miss Campbell passed away because she lost a significant amount of blood in a short period of time," Hammers said.JUST WATCHED Remembering Krystle Campbell Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remembering Krystle Campbell 02:09Beyond the clinical details of what happened to Campbell's body, jurors also have heard from a friend, who described what must have been the last minute of Campbell's life.Karen Rand McWatters, whose leg was so mangled it had to be amputated, dragged herself to Campbell's side:"I got as close as I could to her. There was so much chaos and so much screaming. For some reason, I got close to her head, and we put our faces together. I never really looked at Krystle's injuries. She very slowly said her legs hurt and we held hands. Very shortly after, her hand went limp and we never spoke again."Prosecutors say the disturbing evidence is needed to prove several of the counts against Tsarnaev: using a weapon of mass destruction, bombing a public place and malicious destruction of property resulting in death.Monday is the 15th day of testimony in the trial, which opened March 4 after lengthy jury selection.Two phases of the trialJurors first will be asked to determine, perhaps by as early as the end of this week, whether Tsarnaev is guilty of 30 counts. Because 17 of those counts carry the death penalty as a possible punishment, a second phase of the trial will follow if the jury convicts him.In the penalty phase, jurors will be asked to weigh aggravating factors, such as the heinousness of the crime, against mitigating factors, such as Tsarnaev's family history and his youth. He was 19 at the time of the bombings.The defense, which began calling witnesses Monday afternoon, has argued that Tsarnaev, known to friends as Jahar, fell under the sway of his more extremist older brother after their parents moved back to Russia. Jahar Tsarnaev was flunking out of the University of Massachusetts and had lost his financial aid at the time of the bombings.Prosecutors William Weinreb, Aloke Chakravarty, Nadine Pellegrini and Steve Mellin presented more than 90 witnesses who told the story of Tsarnaev's alleged scheme with his brother, Tamerlan, to build and detonate pressure cooker bombs as an act of jihad. The Russian-born brothers, Muslims of Chechen descent, allegedly sought to kill Americans at an iconic public event to retaliate against U.S. policies they believed harmed and oppressed Muslims abroad.Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A jury condemned Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to death on Friday, May 15, for his role in killing four people and wounding hundreds more in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. See photos that were released as evidence in his trial. Hide Caption 1 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This undated photo of a young Tsarnaev with his brother, Tamerlan, was shown by the defense in the sentencing phase of the trial. Tamerlan died after being shot by police and run over by a car driven by his brother in the massive manhunt that followed the bombings. Hide Caption 2 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Katie Russell met Tamerlan Tsarnaev at a nightclub and dropped out of college to marry him. Her mother, Judith Russell, testified that Tamerlan came between Katie and her family and that Katie became isolated. She eventually converted to Islam and changed her name to Karima Tsarnaeva. She was the breadwinner. But when company came for dinner, she cooked, served the men and then retired to another room. Hide Caption 3 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This collection of photos of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in his wrestling days was introduced by the defense. Hide Caption 4 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This photo of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, recovered from his computer, was shown during the sentencing phase. Hide Caption 5 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image shows victims' positions in the crowd prior to the Boston Marathon bombings on April 15, 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev "flips the bird" in a jail cell during his first arraignment on July 10, 2013. The image was presented to jurors in the sentencing phase of his trial. Hide Caption 7 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev poses in front of a black standard adopted by various militant Islamist groups in this Instagram photo that was entered as evidence. Hide Caption 8 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say Tsarnaev was a self-radicalized jihadist who pored over militant writings, including the article "How to Build a Bomb in the Kitchen of Your Mom." It was found on his laptop and other devices, part of a full-edition download of Inspire magazine, a glossy English-language propaganda tool put out by al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Hide Caption 9 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This Russian manual on how to fire a handgun was found in the apartment where Tsarnaev's brother, Tamerlan, lived. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 10 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This copy of The Sovereign, which calls itself the "newspaper of the resistance," was also found in Tamerlan Tsarnaev's apartment. Hide Caption 11 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Pictured here is a box of bullets found on a street after the shootout in Watertown. The brothers' fingerprints were on the box, prosecutors said. Hide Caption 12 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A pressure cooker was embedded in the side of a resident's Honda during the Watertown shootout. Hide Caption 13 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos of the Watertown shootout were entered into evidence. Neighbors came to their windows and then retreated. One grabbed his infant son and headed toward the back of his house with his wife. Another grabbed a camera and took photographs from an upstairs window. Hide Caption 14 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence The Tsarnaevs had carjacked a Mercedes SUV in Watertown before the shootout. The vehicle was covered in bulletholes, and the rear window was shattered. Hide Caption 15 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This unexploded pipe bomb was found at the scene of the shootout between police and the Tsarnaev brothers in Watertown. Hide Caption 16 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said these boards were attached to the boat where police found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding. A carved message reads, "Stop killing our innocent people and we will stop." Hide Caption 17 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Smashed phones and an ATM card owned by carjacking victim Dun Meng were in the yard where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found. Hide Caption 18 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this surveillance image shows Tsarnaev visiting an ATM hours before a police chase and chaotic shootout in which more than 200 rounds were fired. Hide Caption 19 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Another view of Tsarnaev's visit to the ATM. Hide Caption 20 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Exhibits related to the shooting death of MIT Officer Sean Collier were introduced to the jury on Wednesday, March 11. This image from the crime scene appears to show a bloody gun. Hide Caption 21 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This burned tank top and yellow hoodie belonged to bombing survivor Jessica Kensky. Hide Caption 22 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this Fox Racing logo was from one of the backpacks containing a bomb. Hide Caption 23 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this still image from surveillance video shows Tsarnaev in the UMass Dartmouth gym the day after the bombings. Hide Caption 24 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors showed the jury photos of what they say are Tsarnaev's writings inside the boat he was captured in. Hide Caption 25 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image is from a surveillance camera outside the Forum restaurant in Boston's Copley Square just after the bombing. Hide Caption 26 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors presented two Twitter accounts linked to Tsarnaev that, they said, showed targeting the marathon had been on his mind for at least a year. One account, @J_tsar, contained 1,100 tweets and was the more mainstream of the two. On the day of the 2012 Boston Marathon, a tweet from the account read, "They will spend their money & they will regret it & they will be defeated." Hide Caption 27 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said the second Twitter account is evidence that Tsarnaev led a double life. By day, he was a slacker college sophomore. By night, he was a wannabe jihadist, posting on the account @Al_firdausiA. In one tweet, he urged people to listen to radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki's lectures. "You will gain an unbelievable amount of knowledge," he said in March 2013, just weeks before the bombings. Prosecutors also allege in an indictment that Tsarnaev downloaded al-Awlaki's writings, calling him a "well-known al Qaeda propagandist." Al-Awlaki had been killed in a U.S. drone strike in 2011. Hide Caption 28 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Hide Caption 29 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A Boston Marathon bombing victim is tended to in the street. Hide Caption 30 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Victims at the finish line just after the bombing. Hide Caption 31 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Eight-year-old Martin Richard, the youngest victim , can be seen standing on the rail in the front row. Hide Caption 32 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A closer view of 8-year-old Martin Richard in the crowd before the bombing. Hide Caption 33 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Boston police tend to a wounded child. CNN has chosen not to show the young victim's face. Hide Caption 34 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Mayhem along Boylston Street. Hide Caption 35 of 35Prosecutors delved into Tsarnaev's text messages and Twitter posts and showed jurors militant material found in his laptop, phone and iPod. They included writings available online from top leaders of al Qaeda.They used data mined from a GPS device and store receipts to trace the purchase of the pressure cookers, BBs and ammunition. Jurors saw photos of pressure cooker parts, fuses, Christmas lights and other bombmaking materials found in the Tsarnaev family's Cambridge apartment, where Tamerlan lived with his wife and child.And they showed security surveillance videos of the brothers in the crowd near the finish line: In one, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev can be seen blending in with the crowd behind the Richard family for four minutes. He appears to slide a backpack off his shoulder near a tree and walk off, glancing over his shoulder. He broke into a run as the bomb went off.After the surveillance photos were released to the public three days after the bombing, the brothers allegedly embarked on a desperate -- and deadly -- attempt to escape.Jurors heard from carjacking victim Dun Meng and saw the brothers on convenience store surveillance video shortly before Meng's escape. He can be seen jumping out of his leased Mercedes SUV at a gas pump and running across the screen as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev casually strolls through the store, picking up an armload of snacks.Prosecutors also used ballistic evidence to link the brothers to the shooting of a campus cop at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a gunbattle with police in Watertown.Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, died as a result of that gunbattle. The defendant, allegedly attempting to run down police, instead ran over his brother in the stolen Mercedes.Jurors also viewed a boat in which Dzhokhar Tsarnaev sought refuge during the ensuing manhunt, which put Boston under a "shelter in place" lockdown.He used a pencil to scrawl what prosecutors called his "manifesto" on the sides of the boat. It was pocked with bullet holes and streaked with blood.Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The second of two explosions goes off near the finish line of the Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013. Three people were killed and at least 264 were injured in the double bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos A man comforts a victim at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Runners react near Kenmore Square after the explosions. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Rescue workers tend to the wounded on the scene. First responders tried to save lives and limbs before transporting victims to hospitals. Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On April 16, 2013, a vigil was held at Boston's Garvey Park for 8-year-old bombing victim Martin Richard . The other victims were Krystle Campbell , a 29-year-old restaurant manager from Medford, Massachusetts, and Lingzi Lu , a 23-year-old Chinese national attending graduate school at Boston University. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The city was quiet the day after the tragedy. Here, a young runner, left, sits in a church near the scene of the attack. Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On April 17, 2013, a federal law enforcement source with firsthand knowledge of the investigation told CNN that a lid to a pressure cooker -- thought to have been used in the bombings -- had been found on a roof of a building near the scene. It was one of several pieces of evidence authorities found Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The device also had fragments such as nails, BBs and ball bearings, the FBI said. Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On April 18, 2013, the FBI released photos and video of two suspects in the bombings and asked for the public's help in identifying them. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The FBI later identified the suspects as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev , left, and his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos FBI Suspect No. 2, later said to be Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, is apparently seen in this picture, far left in white cap. The photo was taken by Boston Marathon runner David Green at the scene of the bombings. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The man identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev appears in a tighter crop of Green's photo. Green submitted the photo to the FBI, he told CNN's Piers Morgan in an interview. Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Late on the night of April 18, 2013, police responded to a call that a campus officer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology was shot and killed. Police said a man later reported being carjacked by the brothers. The two were stopped in Watertown, Massachusetts, where police said they threw explosives and shot at the officers. One man, assumed to be Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, drove off. The other, later identified as Tamerlan Tsarnaev, was injured. He died at the hospital. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis speaks to the media on April 19, 2013, and explains that the city is on lockdown until the surviving suspect is found. Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Officers scoured Watertown, Massachusetts, where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was last seen. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Frightened residents were questioned near Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's home in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos SWAT teams conducted door-to-door searches in Watertown while looking for the suspect. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Ruslan Tsarni , uncle of the Tsarnaev brothers, gave an interview April 19, 2013, outside his home in Montgomery Village, Maryland. He urged Tsarnaev to turn himself in. Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos SWAT teams continue to search in Watertown on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On the evening of April 19, 2013, a Watertown resident called the police and reported seeing a man on a boat in his backyard. Residents ran from the area where police said Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was hiding on Franklin Street. Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Helicopters with infrared devices detected a man under the boat tarp. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's frame is seen in this thermal image released by Massachusetts State Police. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Police threw "flash-bangs" -- devices meant to stun people with a loud noise -- and started negotiations with Tsarnaev. He eventually surrendered and was transported to a local hospital in serious condition. Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos People wave U.S. flags in Watertown after it was announced that Tsarnaev had been captured. Hide Caption 23 of 23He wrote he was jealous that his brother had achieved paradise by dying like a holy warrior in the gunbattle with police. He asked God to make him a martyr, too.His justification for his actions echoed themes of the militant material on his laptop:"The U.S. Government is killing our innocent civilians but most of you already know that," he wrote. "Know you are fighting men who look into the barrel of your gun and see heaven, now how can you compete with that. We are promised victory and we will surely get it."He wrote that he couldn't stand to see the U.S. government "go unpunished" for killing Muslims. "We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us all."He ended with: "Now I don't like killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to said" -- the word was lost to a bullet hole -- "it is allowed."Tsarnaev has pleaded not guilty, although his attorneys do not dispute that he participated in the bombings. Lead defense attorney Judy Clarke asked jurors in her opening statement to keep their minds open to an alternative explanation.The defense began its case with two witnesses called to offer scenarios that differ from the version of events offered by FBI witnesses. One focused on the the defendant's Twitter posts a year before the marathon, including mundane matters such as whether he should sleep in or get breakfast. Another challenged the way the FBI used GPS points and store receipts to document the purchase of pressure cookers, BBs and ammunition -- allegedly by Tamerlan Tsarnaev.By the end of the day, it became clear that the challenge for the defense will be to present a case that can somehow soften the harsh, unforgettable images jurors saw of ordinary people meeting a horrific end.