(CNN) Boko Haram pledges allegiance to ISIS, an Israeli crowd roasts Benjamin Netanyahu ahead of election and a baby miraculously survives in a car that flipped over into a river.It's Monday, and here are the 5 Things to Know for Your New Day:NEMTSOV DRAMAOpposition leader Boris Nemtsov was a thorn in the Kremlin's side. Since he was shot in the back on a Moscow street, police have concentrated on men from a region that is another Kremlin eyesore -- Chechnya. One Chechnyan suspect blew himself up with a grenade this weekend, when police tried to arrest him. Nemtsov's allies think the arrests are bogus and say Nemtsov was one of many Kremlin critics Putin has done away with roughly.ISIS BOKO HARAMBlood brothers: Boko Haram has reportedly Boko Haram has reportedly pledged allegiance to ISIS , but aside from being equally unscrupulous killers, what does this mean for the two groups? Now might be an opportune time for Boko Haram to scream for ISIS' help, because Nigeria and two neighboring countries are thumping them with a big offensive. But ISIS would likely have a hard time getting weapons and fighters into BH's remote northern Nigerian location to bolster their fellow Islamist extremists.JUST WATCHED Boko Haram reportedly pledges allegiance to ISIS Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boko Haram reportedly pledges allegiance to ISIS 01:07POLICE SHOOTINGSDiplomatic ruffles: Enough with officer involved shootings in the U.S., says...Mexico. In the past month, police have shot dead three Mexican nationals, and Enough with officer involved shootings in the U.S., says...Mexico. In the past month, police have shot dead three Mexican nationals, and Mexico is asking the U.S. Department of Justice to step in with investigations. Police shot a migrant worker in Washington 17 times; a father of four was shot during a traffic stop in Texas, and in California, police killed a man during a robbery investigation.Photos: A police shooting, a Mexican man's death, an ongoing controversy Pasco, Washington -- Relatives and friends of Antonio Zambrano-Montes carry his casket into St. Patrick Church on February 25, 2015. Zambrano-Montes was unarmed when he was killed February 10 by Pasco police officers, who fired a total of 17 bullets. Police said the shooting took place after Zambrano-Montes threw rocks at officers. Hide Caption 1 of 4 Photos: A police shooting, a Mexican man's death, an ongoing controversy Pasco, Washington -- Family and friends stand with the casket of Antonio Zambrano-Montes before they enter St. Patrick Church on February 25, 2010. Zambrano-Montes was killed February 10 in a confrontation with police, who allege he was throwing rocks, striking officers. His family and friends say he didn't understand the English spoken by police and contend that officers used excessive force. Hide Caption 2 of 4 Photos: A police shooting, a Mexican man's death, an ongoing controversy Pasco, Washington -- The Rev. Lutakome Nsubuga blesses the casket of Antonio Zambrano-Montes before the funeral on February 25, 2010. Hide Caption 3 of 4 Photos: A police shooting, a Mexican man's death, an ongoing controversy Pasco, Washington -- Agapita Montes, center, mother of Antonio Zambrano-Montes, is comforted by relatives as she leaves the funeral for her son on February 25, 2015. Hide Caption 4 of 4BABY FOUND IN CRASHED CARLife and death in a river: When a man went to a Utah river Saturday hoping to haul out fish, he inadvertently saved the life of a baby who had been trapped there -- possibly for half a day. When a man went to a Utah river Saturday hoping to haul out fish, he inadvertently saved the life of a baby who had been trapped there -- possibly for half a day. He saw a car flipped onto its roof in the water. Rescuers heaved the car up on its side, opened the door, and found a baby girl inside, unresponsive but still alive. Her 25-year-old mother had died in the accident. It appears she had hit a bridge embankment the night before and landed in the stream.JUST WATCHED Angler finds baby alive in submerged car wreck Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Angler finds baby alive in submerged car wreck 01:32NETANYAHU PROTESTSFrom frying pan to fire: His speech before the U.S. Congress last week may have put Isreali Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in hot water with the White House. But it also may have done him little good at home. His speech before the U.S. Congress last week may have put Isreali Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in hot water with the White House. But it also may have done him little good at home. A crowd gave him a roasting in Tel Aviv over the weekend. Many thousands rallied for voters to send him packing and his hardnosed stance toward Palestinians with him, come next week's elections. The crowd jeered under the flapping of hybrid Palestinian-Israeli flags.JUST WATCHED Thousands of Israelis rally for change in government Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Thousands of Israelis rally for change in government 01:17Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing:Ah, ah, ah, ah...CHOO! Some people love to sneeze, others hate it. No different with cats it seems, says this owner, who caught this feline trying to avoid sneezing in slo-mo video.Chillin': This guy put his turtle into fridge for hibernation season -- it was safer for "Herman," he says. He videoed the turtle's spring awakening. Morning, Herman!Scream and run: Motorist leans on his horn at police officers in China while bumping into them -- and gets away with it.Yo-yo dog: How to get your ball out of the neighbor's yard? A dog on a rope.365 proposals: For one whole year, a man recorded one proposal per day to his girlfriend on video. Then he show them to her all at once -- except for the 365th, which he delivered in person.