(CNN) Investigators search co-pilot's home in Germanwings crash case. Saudi Arabia bombs rebels in Yemen for a second day. And two cousins are arrested in Illinois for alleged ISIS links.It's Friday and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day.GERMANWINGS INVESTIGATIONInvestigators searched the home of the Germanwings co-pilot Andreas Lubitz and took several objects and papers, German police said this morning. They're hoping the items will reveal more information on why the plane crashed into the French Alps, killing all 150 people on board. Yesterday, a French prosecutor said Lubitz intentionally set the Germanwings plane on its fatal descent. Transponder data shows that the autopilot was reprogrammed during the flight by someone inside the cockpit to change the plane's altitude from 38,000 feet to 100 feet.YEMEN OFFENSIVESaudi airstrikes: A coalition of A coalition of Middle Eastern warplanes pounded rebel positions in Yemen for a second night. Saudi Arabia is leading the charge. The United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Jordan, Morocco and Sudan are also involved in airstrikes against rebel positions. What do those countries have in common? They're all predominantly Sunni Muslim -- in contrast to the Houthi rebels, who are Shiite Muslims. The Saudis consider the Houthis proxies for the Shiite government of Iran. And they fear another Shiite-dominated state in the region.JUST WATCHED U.S. assistance offered for Saudi-led strikes in Yemen Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH U.S. assistance offered for Saudi-led strikes in Yemen 02:25BATTLE FOR TIKRITTargeting ISIS: U.S. warplanes continue to U.S. warplanes continue to hammer ISIS positions around the northern Iraqi city of Tikrit. Among the targets are ISIS checkpoints, bridges and staging areas. The idea is that this aerial bombardment will pave the way for Iraqi forces to go in and take control on the ground. Iraqi forces have tried multiple times to win back Tikrit since ISIS conquered the city in June. And each time, so far, they've failed.JUST WATCHED Iraqi citizens return to town after ISIS driven out Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iraqi citizens return to town after ISIS driven out 02:55ILLINOIS ISIS ARRESTSTerror charges: Two cousins, one of them an Army National Guard member, have been Two cousins, one of them an Army National Guard member, have been arrested in Illinois for allegedly conspiring to provide material support to ISIS , federal prosecutors said. The alleged plot included a plan to attack a U.S. military installation in Illinois. Spc. Hasan Edmonds, 22, was arrested this week at Chicago Midway International Airport. He was reportedly attempting to travel to Egypt. His cousin, Jonas "Yunus" Edmonds, 29, was arrested at his home in Aurora in connection with an alleged plot to carry out an armed attack on an unspecified U.S. military facility in northern Illinois.JUST WATCHED Natl. Guardsman, cousin accused of supporting ISIS Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Natl. Guardsman, cousin accused of supporting ISIS 01:58MARCH MADNESSSweet Sixteen: This is the time of year This is the time of year college basketball fans live for . In last night's games, Notre Dame, Wisconsin, Kentucky and Arizona advanced. Tonight's games pit UCLA against Gonzaga, North Carolina takes on Louisville, Utah squares off against Duke and Michigan State tips off against Oklahoma.Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Basketball blunder: Wisconsin's Nigel Hayes is smooth on the court, but isn't as good in front of the microphone. He thought he was off mic in this hilariously embarrassing moment.Basketball dreamers: Trick basketball shots in the driveway. Or is that trick editing on the computer?Raise a glass: It's "Beer! The Musical!"Mitt in the Mirror: Jimmy Fallon is Mitt Romney's reflection.Flame on: Ten tricks you can do with fire. Please consult your homeowner's policy first.