Photos: Military photography of the year Winners have been announced in the 2014 Military Photographer of the Year competition, which honors the best photography by U.S. service members. This photo, taken by Air Force Staff Sgt. Vernon Young, shows Staff Sgt. Kyle McGann, an explosive ordnance disposal technician, climbing into a mine-resistant vehicle during blast-pit training on March 16, 2014. Young, a photojournalist with Airman magazine, was named Military Photographer of the Year for his work in 2014. Hide Caption 1 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year Photographer of the year: Air Force Staff Sgt. Vernon Young – U.S. Navy Lt. Jaclyn Trosper celebrates after winning a card game on February 17, 2014, while awaiting deployment to Afghanistan. Hide Caption 2 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year Photographer of the year: Air Force Staff Sgt. Vernon Young – An off-duty U.S. Army soldier hits golf balls in Afghanistan on March 29, 2014. Military members try to maintain a healthy balance of physical and social activities during their deployments. Hide Caption 3 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year Photographer of the year: Air Force Staff Sgt. Vernon Young – A U.S. Air Force pilot flies a F-16 Fighting Falcon below a KC-135 tanker while being refueled in midair on June 29, 2014. The Fighting Falcon is a compact fighter that is highly maneuverable and has proved itself in air-to-air combat and air-to-surface attack. Hide Caption 4 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year Photographer of the year: Air Force Staff Sgt. Vernon Young – U.S. Army Staff Sgt. Damion Kennedy shares a laugh with an Afghan man as he helps oversee a base detail project April 8, 2014, in Afghanistan. Kennedy and many of his fellow soldiers developed strong connections with Afghans during their deployment. Hide Caption 5 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year Photographer of the year: Air Force Staff Sgt. Vernon Young – U.S. Air Force Tech. Sgt. Josh Martin, an aerial gunner with the 438th Air Expeditionary Advisory Squadron, provides rear security on a Mi-17 helicopter in Kabul, Afghanistan, on May 31, 2014. The squadron and the Afghan air force have combined training efforts to help Afghan helicopter crews work seamlessly in support of ground forces in combat. Hide Caption 6 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year Photographer of the year: Air Force Staff Sgt. Vernon Young – An Afghan man spends a moment alone in a military planning room before serving tea to soldiers on June 11, 2014. Hide Caption 7 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year Photographer of the year: Air Force Staff Sgt. Vernon Young – This photo montage by Young illustrates how the Afghan air force evacuates its wounded and fallen personnel. Hide Caption 8 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year Photographer of the year: Air Force Staff Sgt. Vernon Young – Young was also recognized for these collected photos about Staff Sgt. Chantel Thibeaux, who was diagnosed with breast cancer in February 2014 during her first class as an Air Force technical school instructor. Thibeaux kept her spirit and disarming candor despite juggling Air Force duties, motherhood and chemotherapy. Hide Caption 9 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year First place, Combat Documentation (Operational): Army Sgt. Harold Flynn – Soldiers assigned to Palehorse Troop, 4th Squadron, 2nd Calvary Regiment, traverse rough terrain in Kandahar province, Afghanistan, on February 10, 2014. The operation, a joint effort between Palehorse troops and the Afghan national army's 205th Corps Mobile Strike Force, required reconnaissance patrols in villages around Kandahar Airfield. Hide Caption 10 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year First place, Combat Documentation (Training): Army Pfc. Nathaniel Newkirk – U.S. Army Rangers assigned to 2nd Battalion, 75th Ranger Regiment, fire a 120 mm mortar during a tactical training exercise January 30, 2014, at Camp Roberts, California. Rangers train constantly to maintain the highest possible level of tactical proficiency. Hide Caption 11 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year First Place, Feature: Air Force Master Sgt. Jeffrey Allen – Members of the Air Force's Special Tactics Training Squadron plunge into a swimming pool with their hands and feet bound before bouncing up to the surface to breathe. The drown-proofing exercise teaches students to remain calm in water during a stressful situation -- a skill that is vital during real-world operations. Hide Caption 12 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year First place, Pictorial: Air Force Master Sgt. Jeffrey Allen – A 22nd Special Tactics Squadron airman climbs a ladder into a CH-47 Chinook helicopter hovering over the ocean on June 20, 2014. Hide Caption 13 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year First Place, News: Air Force Staff Sgt. Larry E. Reid Jr. – Air Force cadets toss their caps in the air as U.S. Air Force Thunderbirds fly in Delta formation overhead during the U.S. Air Force Academy's graduation ceremony May 28, 2014, in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Hide Caption 14 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year First place, Portrait: Air Force Master Sgt. John Nimmo – U.S. Air Force Staff Sgt. Nadia Rowell poses for a portrait March 15, 2014, at the Joint Readiness Training Center in Fort Polk, Louisiana. Service members at the center receive training in patient care and medical evacuation in a simulated combat environment. Hide Caption 15 of 17Photos: Military photography of the year First place, Illustrative: Airman 1st Class Devin Boyer – The photo illustration won a first-place award for showing how family and friends can reach out and help a service member get treatment for mental-health problems. Hide Caption 16 of 17