It's Wednesday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayOKLAHOMA FRATERNITYTwo University of Oklahoma students have been expelled for their role in leading a racist chant. One of them, Parker Rice, issued an apology in a statement published by The Dallas Morning News. "I am deeply sorry for what I did Saturday night. It was wrong and reckless," he said. The nine-second video shows Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity members chanting, "There will never be a ni**** SAE. You can hang him from a tree, but he can never sign with me."FERGUSON MANAGERSteps down: Ferguson City Manager John Shaw resigned yesterday in the wake of a Ferguson City Manager John Shaw resigned yesterday in the wake of a blistering Justice Department report . The report blames Ferguson, Missouri, police and courts for abusive behavior that disproportionately targets African-American residents. His resignation was announced the same day the City Council voted 7-0 on a mutual separation agreement with Shaw.JUST WATCHED Ferguson mayor responds to scathing report Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ferguson mayor responds to scathing report 01:53CLINTON EMAILSExplanation: Former secretary of State Hillary Clinton says she used Former secretary of State Hillary Clinton says she used a private email account while at the State Department out of sheer convenience. "I opted for convenience to use my personal email account, which was allowed by the State Department, because I thought it would be easier to carry just one device for my work and for my personal emails instead of two," she said. Critics say there's no way to verify if she's turned over all government-related emails.JUST WATCHED Clinton: 'Would've been better' to use official email Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Clinton: 'Would've been better' to use official email 02:31ISIS KILLINGPR Video: A newly released A newly released ISIS video shows a child shooting a 19-year-old man the group claims is an Israeli spy. Israel denies the claim. This isn't the first time ISIS has used children to drive home its message. An ISIS propaganda video released in January shows a boy with a pistol apparently shooting two men in the back of the head. Last August, a photo posted to Twitter from an ISIS stronghold showed a 7-year-old boy holding a man's severed head and his father's words, "That's my boy."JUST WATCHED ISIS video shows child shooting and killing alleged spy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH ISIS video shows child shooting and killing alleged spy 02:47POLICE SHOOTINGOne career, two shootings: For the second time in his career, Madison, Wisconsin, police For the second time in his career, Madison, Wisconsin, police Officer Matt Kenny is being investigated for using lethal force . Friday's death of Tony Robinson, an unarmed biracial 19-year-old, has made Madison the latest epicenter of protests of black males killed by white officers. Eight years ago, it was a different story. Kenny shot and killed a man who pointed a pellet gun at him. He was exonerated of any wrongdoing and received a commendation. The dead man was white.JUST WATCHED Wisconsin shooting is not officer's first Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wisconsin shooting is not officer's first 04:23Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Courting trouble: A jury orders Robin Thicke and Pharrell Williams to pay $7.4 million over similarities between "Blurred Lines" and Marvin Gaye's "Got to Give It Up."JUST WATCHED Jury: 'Blurred Lines' singers must pay $7.4 million Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jury: 'Blurred Lines' singers must pay $7.4 million 01:57Sexual assault PSA: #WhoWillYouHelpBalanced act: If you give a kitten a ball.Beer bestie: Windell D. Middlebrooks , the actor best known as the straight-talking Miller High Life delivery man, died this week. He was 36. No cause of death was given.Sorry dad: This little slugger knocks his socks off.There you go. All you need to know to get an early start to your morning.Be sure to tune in to "New Day," from 6 to 9 a.m. ET, join us at NewDayCNN.com and go and have a GREAT NEW DAY!