Story highlights Serena Williams' father claimed he was racially abused at Indian Wells in 2001She returned to the event Friday night, being met with raucous cheers -- not jeers(CNN) Serena Williams has won 19 grand slam singles tennis titles, including six U.S. Opens and five Wimbledons. She has four Olympic gold medals. For years, she's had a reputation as one of her sport's top players.Yet for all her myriad accomplishments, Williams says one of her "biggest ... and proudest moments" came Friday night -- in the second round of a tournament in Indian Wells, California.It's not who she was playing, but where. The Indian Wells Tennis Garden is where Williams was booed during the 2001 finale. Her older sister, Venus, got similar treatment in the stands, and her father Richard told USA Today he was subjected to racial abuse.Afterward, Serena Williams vowed she'd never go back. She kept true to that promise for 14 years, a time when she often dominated her sport.Photos: Serena and the story of Indian Wells in 2001 Photos: Serena and the story of Indian Wells in 2001 Serena Williams, left, won the Indian Wells tennis tournament in 2001 by beating Kim Clijsters. But that was only half the story... Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Serena and the story of Indian Wells in 2001 Williams was booed by fans in the final. She grew up not far away in a suburb of Los Angeles. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Serena and the story of Indian Wells in 2001 Williams' dad, Richard, and older sister, Venus, were booed when they made their way to their seats. Richard Williams said he was racially abused. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Serena and the story of Indian Wells in 2001 Despite the charged atmosphere, Serena Williams beat Clijsters in three sets to repeat as champion. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Serena and the story of Indian Wells in 2001 Serena Williams exchanged a hug with her dad after the final. Richard Williams shaped the careers of his two grand slam winning daughters from humble beginnings. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Serena and the story of Indian Wells in 2001 But the incident took a toll on Serena Williams and her family. She boycotted Indian Wells until this year. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Serena and the story of Indian Wells in 2001 In her first match in Indian Wells in 14 years, Serena played Monica Niculescu. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Serena and the story of Indian Wells in 2001 But Richard Williams and Venus Williams are continuing to boycott the tournament, according to a tournament official. Hide Caption 8 of 8On Friday, Williams was back. And instead of jeers, there were cheers.Read More