(CNN) Michael Slager will have to wait to find out his fate.A judge is weighing whether the former North Charleston police officer, who's been charged with murder in the shooting death of Walter Scott , should have the opportunity to be released from jail on bond.Slager was denied bail at an April hearing. He's been in solitary confinement ever since. At a court hearing on Thursday, Slager's lawyer said he should be placed on house arrest, arguing that the former police officer does not have a previous criminal record, isn't a flight risk and is considered low-risk for violent behavior."He wants his day in court. He wants the world to know what happened that day," attorney Andy Savage said. "He wants them to know what the process of his thoughts were that day."Savage spent more than an hour criticizing the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division's investigation of the case, accusing authorities of destroying evidence. He said the decisions to fire Slager from his job as a police officer in North Charleston and charge him with murder were premature, happening "amid a national focus on police conduct" before authorities conducted a thorough investigation.But Solicitor Scarlett Wilson, who's prosecuting the case, said Slager is a danger to the community and a flight risk. She painted a much harsher picture of the former police officer, criticizing Slager for painting himself as a victim when he was the one who opened fire that day in April."I think the evidence is clear, and I believe that the evidence that we have given to Mr. Savage, and the evidence that we are continuing to develop, supports malice of forethought," she said. "Mr. Slager has doubled down on, he did nothing wrong, nothing at all. ... It was pure self-defense. And he's gone about that in a way to make himself the victim.""That is something, again, that we believe was put out there to embarrass Mr. Scott's family, and to make it seem like he was in a cocaine frenzy, which is just not the case," she said. "Should he have resisted arrest? Should he have fled from Officer Slager? No, he shouldn't have. But that doesn't mean that Mr. Slager should have become a firing squad and executed Mr. Scott."A traffic stop, then a shootingSlager pulled over Scott on April 4 , reportedly for a broken brake light. Scott was later shot in the back by Slager as he was running away.JUST WATCHED Former North Charletson cop indicted for murder Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Former North Charletson cop indicted for murder 01:10A bystander recorded the shooting, and the graphic footage sparked outrage and reignited a national conversation around race and policing.Scott was black; Slager is white.Slager told investigators Scott did not comply with his demands and tried to grab his stun gun. The cell phone video shows what appeared to be a quick scuffle.Scott then runs away from Slager, who raises his gun and fires eight times, striking Scott, who was unarmed and whose back was turned to Slager as he fled. Scott died at the scene.Photos: Reactions to Walter Scott shooting Photos: Reactions to Walter Scott shooting Joe Gilliard looks over a fence April 9, 2015, at the spot where Walter Scott was shot and killed by a police officer April 4 in North Charleston, South Carolina. The officer, Michael Slager , has been charged with murder in the fatal shooting of Scott , an unarmed 50-year-old. Video captured by a bystander showed Slager shooting Scott as he ran away. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Reactions to Walter Scott shooting Chasyn Carter, right, embraces Candice Ancrum during a candlelight vigil outside North Charleston's City Hall on Wednesday, April 8. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Reactions to Walter Scott shooting Charleston County Sheriff Al Cannon holds a candle as he joins the City Hall protest on April 8. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Reactions to Walter Scott shooting Darrell Mikell, Aaron Moses, Justin Lewis and Quin Dalton stand April 8 near the site where Scott was shot and killed. The person in the background is unidentified. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Reactions to Walter Scott shooting Protesters interrupt a press conference with North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey on April 8. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Reactions to Walter Scott shooting People protest Scott's shooting as they rally outside North Charleston's City Hall on April 8. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Reactions to Walter Scott shooting Some of those rallying outside North Charleston's City Hall held signs and wore shirts that said "Black lives matter." Scott was black. Slager is white. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Reactions to Walter Scott shooting Scott's cousin Barbara, right, and her mother, Evaliana Smalls, lay flowers at the lot where the shooting took place. Hide Caption 8 of 8"I have watched the video, and I was sickened by what I saw," North Charleston police Chief Eddie Driggers told reporters at the time.In court on Thursday, Savage said there was more to the story. The video of the shooting that drew widespread attention, he said, was "of questionable origin and questionable manipulation.""There was a terribly violent struggle between Mr. Scott and Mr. Slager," he said.Wilson discussed the video in court, noting that it shows that after shooting Scott five times in the back, Slager -- a veteran EMT officer -- never attempted to render aid.Instead, she said, "he put handcuffs on a dying or dead Walter Scott.""There are thousands and thousands of law enforcement officers that get it right every single day, every single day," she said. "This one got it terribly wrong."'The wound keeps opening up'State Circuit Judge Clifton Newman said he'd take Slager's bond request under advisement and rule at a later date.Scott's family was in the courtroom Thursday and pleaded with the judge to deny bail.His mother sobbed as she addressed the court."That was my son, my middle son, that was murdered without mercy, no mercy at all, shot not just one or two times, but from five to eight times, like he was not even a human being," Judy Scott said. "I miss my son. I am very devastated. ... I loved him very much and I miss him, and he was murdered with no mercy. Why should Slager have mercy? Why should he hug his son when I have to go down to Live Oak (cemetery). I can't hear Walter anymore."Anthony Scott, Walter Scott's brother, said Thursday's court hearing marked a bittersweet moment for his family."Today was a good day and a bad day," he said. "We didn't get a decision today, but we did get to see my brother's murderer for the first time. I felt something lifted up from my heart."But as he saw Slager sitting before the judge, making his case, he thought about how his brother never had that chance."It is a painful day for the family," he said, "because the wound keeps opening up over and over again."