Story highlights Full Throttle Saloon in Sturgis, South Dakota, called itself "The World's Biggest Biker Bar"Fire that apparently started early Tuesday morning destroyed the business, fire department saysEmmett the donkey is OK, CNN affiliate reports(CNN) A tavern that billed itself as "The World's Biggest Biker Bar" was destroyed by fire early Tuesday morning.The Full Throttle Saloon hosted thousands of bikers who traveled to Sturgis, South Dakota, for an annual biker rally, reported CNN affiliate KOTA of Rapid City.It held as many as 15,000 people on a rally night, owner Michael Ballard said on the bar's website. One employee said on a really busy night as many as 20,000 people would come in.Photos: World's largest biker bar burns Photos: World's largest biker bar burns The Full Throttle Saloon, a tavern that billed itself as "The World's Biggest Biker Bar" was destroyed by fire early Tuesday morning, September 8, in Sturgis, South Dakota. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: World's largest biker bar burns The Full Throttle Saloon would host as many as 20,000 people on a busy rally night, one employee said. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: World's largest biker bar burns The bar was made of wood and steel beams. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: World's largest biker bar burns Firefighters from six departments battle the blaze at the Full Throttle Saloon. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: World's largest biker bar burns No one was injured in the fire, which the assistant fire chief said was fueled by a lot of dry wood. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: World's largest biker bar burns "Hopefully, we will rebuild," saloon artist Dean Mauldein told CNN affiliate KOTA. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: World's largest biker bar burns Motorcycles surround the Full Throttle Saloon, which claims to be the world''s biggest biker bar, during the 61st annual Sturgis Motorcycle Rally, August 11, 2001, in Sturgis, South Dakota. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: World's largest biker bar burns In this Aug. 7, 2006 file photo, a Guns and Roses tribute band plays at the Full Throttle Saloon in Sturgis, South Dakota, during the Sturgis Motorcycle Rally. Hide Caption 8 of 8The cause of the fire is unknown, the Sturgis Volunteer Fire Department said. The bar was made of wood and steel beams.Photos posted on the Fire Department Facebook page showed nothing but smoking debris where the sprawling building once stood.Read More