(CNN) Pope Francis has returned to Rome, leaving the United States with "a heart full of gratitude and hope" after a hectic trip.The Pope packed a lot of hugs, handshakes, blessings and political admonitions into a period of less than a week that took him to the halls of Washington power, the U.N. General Assembly and drew throngs of admirers to hear him celebrate Mass.The Pope waves at Obama and his family.The Pope waves at Obama and his family.Clergy members brace for the wind as they stand on the tarmac at Andrews Air Force Base.Clergy members brace for the wind as they stand on the tarmac at Andrews Air Force Base.Pope Francis is escorted by the Obamas and their daughters after arriving in the country.Pope Francis is escorted by the Obamas and their daughters after arriving in the country.Pope Francis departs from Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland shortly after his flight landed on Tuesday, September 22.Pope Francis departs from Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland shortly after his flight landed on Tuesday, September 22.People wave U.S. and Vatican flags as they wait for the Pope's arrival at the White House on September 23.People wave U.S. and Vatican flags as they wait for the Pope's arrival at the White House on September 23.Pope Francis addresses guests on the South Lawn of the White House.Pope Francis addresses guests on the South Lawn of the White House.Obama, the Pope and first lady Michelle Obama greet the crowd during an arrival ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House on September 23.Obama, the Pope and first lady Michelle Obama greet the crowd during an arrival ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House on September 23.President Barack Obama hosts the Pope in the Oval Office of the White House on September 23.President Barack Obama hosts the Pope in the Oval Office of the White House on September 23.Pope Francis reaches out to bless a child during the parade in Washington.Pope Francis reaches out to bless a child during the parade in Washington.Pope Francis greets crowds during his parade in Washington on September 23.Pope Francis greets crowds during his parade in Washington on September 23.Nuns wait for Pope Francis to arrive inside the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception.Nuns wait for Pope Francis to arrive inside the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception.The Pope celebrates Mass at the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception on September 23.The Pope celebrates Mass at the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception on September 23.Francis is the first Pope to address a joint meeting of Congress.Francis is the first Pope to address a joint meeting of Congress.Pope Francis addresses a joint meeting of the U.S. Congress on September 24. Vice President Joe Biden and House Speaker John Boehner sit behind him in the House chamber.Pope Francis addresses a joint meeting of the U.S. Congress on September 24. Vice President Joe Biden and House Speaker John Boehner sit behind him in the House chamber.Congressional staffers and guests strain to view and photograph the Pope at the Capitol.Congressional staffers and guests strain to view and photograph the Pope at the Capitol.Members of Congress accompany Pope Francis on the Speaker's Balcony on Capitol Hill on September 24.Members of Congress accompany Pope Francis on the Speaker's Balcony on Capitol Hill on September 24.Pope Francis stops to look at a sculpture of Spanish-born missionary Junipero Serra at the U.S. Capitol in Washington on September 24. The Pope canonized Serra during a Mass the day before.Pope Francis stops to look at a sculpture of Spanish-born missionary Junipero Serra at the U.S. Capitol in Washington on September 24. The Pope canonized Serra during a Mass the day before.Crowds welcome Pope Francis to New York on September 24 after his arrival at John F. Kennedy International Airport.Crowds welcome Pope Francis to New York on September 24 after his arrival at John F. Kennedy International Airport.Nuns celebrate at St. Patrick's Cathedral as they wait for the arrival of Pope Francis.Nuns celebrate at St. Patrick's Cathedral as they wait for the arrival of Pope Francis.Francis gives a thumbs-up after leading an evening prayer service Thursday, September 24, at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York.Francis gives a thumbs-up after leading an evening prayer service Thursday, September 24, at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York.The Pope arrives at the U.N. General Assembly to give his speech.The Pope arrives at the U.N. General Assembly to give his speech.Pope Francis places a white rose at the 9/11 memorial in New York on September 25.Pope Francis places a white rose at the 9/11 memorial in New York on September 25.Pope Francis greets the crowd in New York's East Harlem Neighborhood on September 25.Pope Francis greets the crowd in New York's East Harlem Neighborhood on September 25.Pope Francis rides through New York's Central Park on September 25. Francis addressed the U.N. General Assembly and will head to Philadelphia this weekend for the World Meeting of Families, a large Catholic event expected to draw nearly 1 million pilgrims.Pope Francis rides through New York's Central Park on September 25. Francis addressed the U.N. General Assembly and will head to Philadelphia this weekend for the World Meeting of Families, a large Catholic event expected to draw nearly 1 million pilgrims.A crucifix hangs above members of the clergy during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25.A crucifix hangs above members of the clergy during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25.Pope Francis celebrates Mass at Madison Square Garden on Friday, September 25, in New York City.Pope Francis celebrates Mass at Madison Square Garden on Friday, September 25, in New York City.The faithful receive communion at the snack bar during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25.The faithful receive communion at the snack bar during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25.Pope Francis kisses and blesses Michael Keating, 10, of Elverson, Pennsylvania, after arriving in Philadelphia on September 26. Keating has cerebral palsy and is the son of Chuck Keating, director of the Bishop Shanahan High School band, which performed at Pope Francis' airport arrival.Pope Francis kisses and blesses Michael Keating, 10, of Elverson, Pennsylvania, after arriving in Philadelphia on September 26. Keating has cerebral palsy and is the son of Chuck Keating, director of the Bishop Shanahan High School band, which performed at Pope Francis' airport arrival.Members of the choir arrive at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul prior to the arrival of Pope Francis on September 26.Members of the choir arrive at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul prior to the arrival of Pope Francis on September 26.Pope Francis delivers Mass before a crowd of more than 2,000, consisting largely of priests, women religious and deacons on September 26.Pope Francis delivers Mass before a crowd of more than 2,000, consisting largely of priests, women religious and deacons on September 26.Pope Francis blesses Communion during a Mass at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul, Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia.Pope Francis blesses Communion during a Mass at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul, Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia.Residents in decorated apartment windows await the arrival of Pope Francis near Independence Mall on September 26.Residents in decorated apartment windows await the arrival of Pope Francis near Independence Mall on September 26.Pope Francis rides in the Popemobile along Independence Mall before delivering a speech outside Independence Hall on September 26.Pope Francis rides in the Popemobile along Independence Mall before delivering a speech outside Independence Hall on September 26.Pope Francis speaks in front of Independence Hall, from the lectern used by President Abraham Lincoln during the Gettysburg Address, on Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia.Pope Francis speaks in front of Independence Hall, from the lectern used by President Abraham Lincoln during the Gettysburg Address, on Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia.Pope Francis takes the stage at the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia.Pope Francis takes the stage at the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia.Aretha Franklin performs as Pope Francis looks on during the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia.Aretha Franklin performs as Pope Francis looks on during the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia.Pope Francis waves to the audience as he leaves Saint Charles Borromeo Seminary in Wynnewood, Pennsylvania, after addressing bishops on September 27.Pope Francis waves to the audience as he leaves Saint Charles Borromeo Seminary in Wynnewood, Pennsylvania, after addressing bishops on September 27.Pope Francis waves to the crowd from the popemobile during a parade along the Benjamin Franklin Parkway before Mass on September 27 in Philadelphia.Pope Francis waves to the crowd from the popemobile during a parade along the Benjamin Franklin Parkway before Mass on September 27 in Philadelphia.Pope Francis celebrates Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27.Pope Francis celebrates Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27.A huge crowd gathers to celebrate Mass with Pope Francis on September 27 in Philadelphia.A huge crowd gathers to celebrate Mass with Pope Francis on September 27 in Philadelphia.Pope Francis greets families at the conclusion of Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27.Pope Francis greets families at the conclusion of Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27.Pope Francis waves from the top of the steps as he prepares to depart Philadelphia International Airport on Sunday, September 27, on his way back to Rome. The Pope has been on a six-day visit to the United States, with stops in Washington, New York and Philadelphia.Pope Francis waves from the top of the steps as he prepares to depart Philadelphia International Airport on Sunday, September 27, on his way back to Rome. The Pope has been on a six-day visit to the United States, with stops in Washington, New York and Philadelphia.On the plane back to Rome, he gave reporters his first impression of Americans. The warmth he encountered in the United States surprised him, as well as the varying forms it took in the cities he visited."It was a beautiful thing and also different," the Pope said through a translator of Italian. "Washington, the welcome was warm but more formal; New York was a bit exuberant; Philadelphia very demonstrative."The devoutness of Americans he encountered also touched him. "You could see the people pray, and this struck me a lot," he said.WashingtonFrancis started his visit with a greeting perhaps unprecedented for a foreign dignitary when he arrived from Cuba. President Barack Obama , Vice President Joe Biden and their families all went to meet him on the tarmac of Joint Base Andrews outside Washington.JUST WATCHED John Boehner cries during Pope's speech Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH John Boehner cries during Pope's speech 01:57"Legislative activity is always based on care for the people," he told lawmakers in a speech that brought House Speaker John Boehner to tears. After his meeting with Francis, Boehner, who had talked of laying down the speaker's gavel in coming months, quit his job posthaste.It delighted many Hispanic believers but irked many Native Americans who said that Serra and other missionaries of the 18th century belittled and killed many of their ancestors.New YorkIn New York, Francis stopped by the 9/11 memorial and admonished the world to never forget those who suffered and died there, and at the U.N. General Assembly, he set a moral tone that put people and the planet over money.And the love of money?"In effect, a selfish and boundless thirst for power and material prosperity leads both to the misuse of available natural resources and to the exclusion of the weak and disadvantaged," Francis said.And he accused some powerful nations of abusing the United Nations to advance their own power agendas.PhiladelphiaIn Philadelphia, the City of Brotherly Love, Francis stood in front of Independence Hall and praised America's tradition of religious freedom and immigration. But he warned that injustice can tear down a society.Wherever Francis goes, a crowd is sure to gather. In the United States, he filled New York City's Madison Square Garden, and in Philadelphia, the throngs poured onto the city's main boulevard, Benjamin Franklin Boulevard. But he took the time to pass out hugs and touch faces that had tears streaming down them.And in his Philadelphia Mass, he stressed the importance of kind "little gestures" that go a long way."They get lost amid all the other things we do, yet they do make each day different," Francis said. "They are the quiet things done by mothers and grandmothers, by fathers and grandfathers, by children and siblings."He told the crowd to show affection and compassion for fellow human beings.Sex abuseAlso in Philadelphia, the Pope addressed the uncomfortable subject that has hung over the Catholic Church for years: sex abuse by clergy.Francis met with five victims at a previously undisclosed, private moment. Afterward, he said that "God weeps" when a child is sexually abused.And clergy who commit the abuse betray their holy calling, he told reporters on the papal plane en route back to Rome."We know the abuses are everywhere -- in families, in the neighborhoods, in the schools, in the gyms. But when a priest abuses, it is very serious because the vocation of the priest is to make that boy, that girl grow toward the love of God, toward maturity and toward good. But instead of that, it squashed it," the Pope said.The Pope has met with victims/survivors of abuse this morning. Let us pray for the gift of healing for them and continued work we must do. — Bishop Edward Burns (@BishopBurns) September 27, 2015Bishops and other church leaders who cover for abusers are also culpable, he said.But Francis also said that priests who commit abuse can receive God's forgiveness, if they are truly open to letting it in.The Pope also answered questions about Catholic Church divorce policy, saying that it was still not recognized by doctrine.And he answered a question about whether the church should consider ordaining women as priests. "That cannot be done," Francis said. "Not because women don't have the capacity." He cited theological reasons for the stance.After landing in Rome early Monday, Francis tweeted gratitude to Americans."With my heartfelt thanks. May the love of Christ always guide the American people! #GodBlessAmerica."