(CNN) "God weeps" for the sexual abuse of children, Pope Francis said Sunday in Philadelphia, after meeting with victims of sexual abuse.Francis met with five victims, including three women and two men, the Vatican said in a statement.All were adults who suffered abuse as minors, either by clergy, family members or teachers.The Pope listened to the victims' testimony, talked with them both as a group and individually, and then prayed with them.The site of the Pope's meeting, St. Charles Borromeo Seminary, is significant since the local archdiocese was the subject of two scathing grand jury reports, in 2005 and 2011, that uncovered years of inadequate action on the part of church leaders to stop priests from raping and molesting children. The priest in charge of personnel was convicted of child endangerment in 2012.JUST WATCHED Pope Francis meets with victims of sexual abuse Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pope Francis meets with victims of sexual abuse 03:00In remarks to bishops following the meeting, Francis vowed "careful oversight" to ensure that youth are protected and said that those responsible for abuse would be held accountable."The people who had the responsibility to take care of these tender ones violated that trust and caused them great pain," he said."Those who have survived this abuse have become true heralds of mercy. Humbly we owe each of them our gratitude for their great value, as they have had to suffer terrible abuse, sexual abuse of minors," he said.Pope Francis has met with sexual abuse victims before, including at the Vatican in 2014. During a homily given during a private Mass with six victims, Francis apologized and asked for forgiveness.The Pope has met with victims/survivors of abuse this morning. Let us pray for the gift of healing for them and continued work we must do. — Bishop Edward Burns (@BishopBurns) September 27, 2015"I beg your forgiveness, too, for the sins of omission on the part of Church leaders who did not respond adequately to reports of abuse made by family members, as well as by abuse victims themselves," Francis said in the 2014 homily, according to a text of the statement provided by the Vatican.In 2008, former Pope Benedict XVI met with sexual abuse victims in Washington.Victim advocates often dismiss such meetings as public relations ploys, and many were particularly upset this week after Francis praised U.S. Catholics' "courage" and "generous commitment to bring healing to victims."Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves from the top of the steps as he prepares to depart Philadelphia International Airport on Sunday, September 27, on his way back to Rome. The Pope has been on a six-day visit to the United States, with stops in Washington, New York and Philadelphia. Hide Caption 1 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets families at the conclusion of Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27. Hide Caption 2 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A huge crowd gathers to celebrate Mass with Pope Francis on September 27 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 3 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis celebrates Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27. Hide Caption 4 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves to the crowd from the popemobile during a parade along the Benjamin Franklin Parkway before Mass on September 27 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 5 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves to the audience as he leaves Saint Charles Borromeo Seminary in Wynnewood, Pennsylvania, after addressing bishops on September 27. Hide Caption 6 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Aretha Franklin performs as Pope Francis looks on during the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 7 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis takes the stage at the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 8 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis speaks in front of Independence Hall, from the lectern used by President Abraham Lincoln during the Gettysburg Address, on Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 9 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis rides in the Popemobile along Independence Mall before delivering a speech outside Independence Hall on September 26. Hide Caption 10 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Residents in decorated apartment windows await the arrival of Pope Francis near Independence Mall on September 26. Hide Caption 11 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis blesses Communion during a Mass at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul, Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 12 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis delivers Mass before a crowd of more than 2,000, consisting largely of priests, women religious and deacons on September 26. Hide Caption 13 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Members of the choir arrive at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul prior to the arrival of Pope Francis on September 26. Hide Caption 14 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis kisses and blesses Michael Keating, 10, of Elverson, Pennsylvania, after arriving in Philadelphia on September 26. Keating has cerebral palsy and is the son of Chuck Keating, director of the Bishop Shanahan High School band, which performed at Pope Francis' airport arrival. Hide Caption 15 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The faithful receive communion at the snack bar during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25. Hide Caption 16 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis celebrates Mass at Madison Square Garden on Friday, September 25, in New York City. Hide Caption 17 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A crucifix hangs above members of the clergy during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25. Hide Caption 18 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis rides through New York's Central Park on September 25. Francis addressed the U.N. General Assembly and will head to Philadelphia this weekend for the World Meeting of Families, a large Catholic event expected to draw nearly 1 million pilgrims. Hide Caption 19 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets the crowd in New York's East Harlem Neighborhood on September 25. Hide Caption 20 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis places a white rose at the 9/11 memorial in New York on September 25. Hide Caption 21 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis attends a multireligious service at the 9/11 memorial. Hide Caption 22 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope arrives at the U.N. General Assembly to give his speech. Hide Caption 23 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis gives a thumbs-up after leading an evening prayer service Thursday, September 24, at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. Hide Caption 24 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Nuns celebrate at St. Patrick's Cathedral as they wait for the arrival of Pope Francis. Hide Caption 25 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis greets crowds as he arrives at St. Patrick's Cathedral. Hide Caption 26 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Crowds welcome Pope Francis to New York on September 24 after his arrival at John F. Kennedy International Airport. Hide Caption 27 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A Pope Francis doll amuses the man himself at John F. Kennedy International Airport. Hide Caption 28 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis stops to look at a sculpture of Spanish-born missionary Junipero Serra at the U.S. Capitol in Washington on September 24. The Pope canonized Serra during a Mass the day before. Hide Caption 29 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Members of Congress accompany Pope Francis on the Speaker's Balcony on Capitol Hill on September 24. Hide Caption 30 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Congressional staffers and guests strain to view and photograph the Pope at the Capitol. Hide Caption 31 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis blesses a child at the Capitol. Hide Caption 32 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis addresses a joint meeting of the U.S. Congress on September 24. Vice President Joe Biden and House Speaker John Boehner sit behind him in the House chamber. Hide Caption 33 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis is the first Pope to address a joint meeting of Congress. Hide Caption 34 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Boehner welcomes Pope Francis before his speech to Congress. Hide Caption 35 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis canonizes Serra during a Mass in Washington on Wednesday, September 23. Hide Caption 36 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope celebrates Mass at the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception on September 23. Hide Caption 37 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Nuns wait for Pope Francis to arrive inside the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. Hide Caption 38 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets crowds during his parade in Washington on September 23. Hide Caption 39 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis reaches out to bless a child during the parade in Washington. Hide Caption 40 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States President Barack Obama hosts the Pope in the Oval Office of the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 41 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Obama, the Pope and first lady Michelle Obama greet the crowd during an arrival ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 42 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis addresses guests on the South Lawn of the White House. Hide Caption 43 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States People wave U.S. and Vatican flags as they wait for the Pope's arrival at the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 44 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Early on September 23, people gather along Pope Francis' parade route in Washington. Hide Caption 45 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis departs from Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland shortly after his flight landed on Tuesday, September 22. Hide Caption 46 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves from his car at Andrews Air Force Base. Hide Caption 47 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis is escorted by the Obamas and their daughters after arriving in the country. Hide Caption 48 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Clergy members brace for the wind as they stand on the tarmac at Andrews Air Force Base. Hide Caption 49 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope waves at Obama and his family. Hide Caption 50 of 50"Almost without exception, they have shown cowardice and callousness and continue to do so now," Barbara Dorris of the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests told CNN on Wednesday."They offer excuses, exploit legal technicalities and hide behind expensive lawyers and public relations professionals, hardly the marks of courage."In June, Francis created a church tribunal to judge bishops who fail to protect children from sexually abusive priests -- a move long sought by abuse victims and their advocates.Pope to prisoners: We all have dirty feetAfter his meeting with abuse survivors, the Pope visited Philadelphia's Curran-Fromhold Correctional Facility, a maximum security prison that houses about 2,800 inmates."I am here as a pastor, but above all as a brother, to share your situation and to make it my own," Francis said. "I have come so that we can pray together and offer our God everything that causes us pain, but also everything that gives us hope, so that we can receive from him the power of the resurrection.""Padre, ¿le puedo dar un abrazo?", le preguntó un preso al #Papa. "Si te animas ..." pic.twitter.com/HcB3AlBk6l — Mercedes Gallego (@gallegom) September 27, 2015Francis is the first Pope to visit a U.S. prison, but such "places of pain" often form an important part of his itinerary on foreign trips. In July, he went to a notoriously violent jail in Bolivia, telling the inmates that he, too, has sinned and been forgiven.The Pope delivered a similar message on Sunday in Philadelphia, telling the 100 inmates gathered in a small room that "life means getting our feet dirty.""All of us need to be cleansed, to be washed," he said.And while Francis avoided criticizing the high incarceration rate in the United States, where 2.5 million people are in prison, he urged the inmates and correctional officers to focus on rehabilitation rather than punishment."This time in your life can only have one purpose: to give you a hand in getting back on the right road, to give you a hand to help you rejoin society," the Pope said.