Philadelphia (CNN) He introduced himself as a brother, a son of immigrants, a neighbor from beyond our southern border.He came to remind our politicians of the country's founding principles and to encourage them to protect our families and our earth from an uncertain future.In a country where Christianity often comes wrapped in an American flag, he said that we are better when we work together, when we don't set aside our differences but celebrate them -- wherever we are from, whatever God we worship.He came to meet us, finally, to look into our eyes and share our struggles.A photo posted by News.va (@newsva) on Sep 27, 2015 at 4:28am PDTFor six days the earth seemed to tilt toward the man wearing the plain white cassock and the Mona Lisa smile. Wherever Pope Francis went in Washington, New York and Philadelphia, we eddied and pooled around him, cheers rising from the crowd as he approached.U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Florida, tears up after hearing the Pope talk about immigration. The presidential candidate was attending a joint session of Congress on Thursday.In Washington, he shook hands with our President, stood silent through our pomp and showy sense of history. And then, in a soft, grandfatherly voice, he reminded our Congress that history speaks not through the perfect and the proud, but through the flawed and the humbleHe drew tears from our lawmakers, not once but twice.And one of the nation's most powerful men relinquished his power the day after meeting him.JUST WATCHED John Boehner chokes up during resignation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH John Boehner chokes up during resignation 00:46He went straight from the halls of Congress to a homeless shelter, where few cameras or cares ever reach. He blessed their meals, saying that before God, there are no rich or poor. There are only sons and daughters."A warm and good feeling went through my body. He made eye contact with me. I felt renewed." - Andrew Gibson, who shook hands with #PopeFrancis at the Catholic Charities lunch #popeindc A photo posted by Catherine Shoichet (@catherinecnn) on Sep 24, 2015 at 10:49am PDTFrom Washington, he flew to New York, where he hit the city's cultural icons with the speed of a tourist on a tight budget and the stamina of a man 40 years younger.Of them all, he seemed to have the most fun at a little school in Harlem(An exhausted journalist asked a papal aide about this boundless energy. It comes from outside, the aide admitted, from the people he meets and the God he worships.)Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves from the top of the steps as he prepares to depart Philadelphia International Airport on Sunday, September 27, on his way back to Rome. The Pope has been on a six-day visit to the United States, with stops in Washington, New York and Philadelphia. Hide Caption 1 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets families at the conclusion of Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27. Hide Caption 2 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A huge crowd gathers to celebrate Mass with Pope Francis on September 27 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 3 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis celebrates Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27. Hide Caption 4 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves to the crowd from the popemobile during a parade along the Benjamin Franklin Parkway before Mass on September 27 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 5 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves to the audience as he leaves Saint Charles Borromeo Seminary in Wynnewood, Pennsylvania, after addressing bishops on September 27. Hide Caption 6 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Aretha Franklin performs as Pope Francis looks on during the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 7 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis takes the stage at the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 8 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis speaks in front of Independence Hall, from the lectern used by President Abraham Lincoln during the Gettysburg Address, on Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 9 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis rides in the Popemobile along Independence Mall before delivering a speech outside Independence Hall on September 26. Hide Caption 10 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Residents in decorated apartment windows await the arrival of Pope Francis near Independence Mall on September 26. Hide Caption 11 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis blesses Communion during a Mass at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul, Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 12 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis delivers Mass before a crowd of more than 2,000, consisting largely of priests, women religious and deacons on September 26. Hide Caption 13 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Members of the choir arrive at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul prior to the arrival of Pope Francis on September 26. Hide Caption 14 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis kisses and blesses Michael Keating, 10, of Elverson, Pennsylvania, after arriving in Philadelphia on September 26. Keating has cerebral palsy and is the son of Chuck Keating, director of the Bishop Shanahan High School band, which performed at Pope Francis' airport arrival. Hide Caption 15 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The faithful receive communion at the snack bar during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25. Hide Caption 16 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis celebrates Mass at Madison Square Garden on Friday, September 25, in New York City. Hide Caption 17 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A crucifix hangs above members of the clergy during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25. Hide Caption 18 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis rides through New York's Central Park on September 25. Francis addressed the U.N. General Assembly and will head to Philadelphia this weekend for the World Meeting of Families, a large Catholic event expected to draw nearly 1 million pilgrims. Hide Caption 19 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets the crowd in New York's East Harlem Neighborhood on September 25. Hide Caption 20 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis places a white rose at the 9/11 memorial in New York on September 25. Hide Caption 21 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis attends a multireligious service at the 9/11 memorial. Hide Caption 22 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope arrives at the U.N. General Assembly to give his speech. Hide Caption 23 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis gives a thumbs-up after leading an evening prayer service Thursday, September 24, at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. Hide Caption 24 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Nuns celebrate at St. Patrick's Cathedral as they wait for the arrival of Pope Francis. Hide Caption 25 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis greets crowds as he arrives at St. Patrick's Cathedral. Hide Caption 26 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Crowds welcome Pope Francis to New York on September 24 after his arrival at John F. Kennedy International Airport. Hide Caption 27 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A Pope Francis doll amuses the man himself at John F. Kennedy International Airport. Hide Caption 28 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis stops to look at a sculpture of Spanish-born missionary Junipero Serra at the U.S. Capitol in Washington on September 24. The Pope canonized Serra during a Mass the day before. Hide Caption 29 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Members of Congress accompany Pope Francis on the Speaker's Balcony on Capitol Hill on September 24. Hide Caption 30 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Congressional staffers and guests strain to view and photograph the Pope at the Capitol. Hide Caption 31 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis blesses a child at the Capitol. Hide Caption 32 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis addresses a joint meeting of the U.S. Congress on September 24. Vice President Joe Biden and House Speaker John Boehner sit behind him in the House chamber. Hide Caption 33 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis is the first Pope to address a joint meeting of Congress. Hide Caption 34 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Boehner welcomes Pope Francis before his speech to Congress. Hide Caption 35 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis canonizes Serra during a Mass in Washington on Wednesday, September 23. Hide Caption 36 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope celebrates Mass at the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception on September 23. Hide Caption 37 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Nuns wait for Pope Francis to arrive inside the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. Hide Caption 38 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets crowds during his parade in Washington on September 23. Hide Caption 39 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis reaches out to bless a child during the parade in Washington. Hide Caption 40 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States President Barack Obama hosts the Pope in the Oval Office of the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 41 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Obama, the Pope and first lady Michelle Obama greet the crowd during an arrival ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 42 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis addresses guests on the South Lawn of the White House. Hide Caption 43 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States People wave U.S. and Vatican flags as they wait for the Pope's arrival at the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 44 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Early on September 23, people gather along Pope Francis' parade route in Washington. Hide Caption 45 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis departs from Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland shortly after his flight landed on Tuesday, September 22. Hide Caption 46 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves from his car at Andrews Air Force Base. Hide Caption 47 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis is escorted by the Obamas and their daughters after arriving in the country. Hide Caption 48 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Clergy members brace for the wind as they stand on the tarmac at Andrews Air Force Base. Hide Caption 49 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope waves at Obama and his family. Hide Caption 50 of 50At ground zero, a sacred and scarred site where words rarely suffice, he somehow found the right ones. We must never forget the victims murdered on that day, he said. But we must also remember the spirit of solidarity that rose from the city in the pained aftermath, when we cared for each other, if only for a while, as though we were brothers and sisters.For all the care he took with his words, he was most energized when he went off-script:Cupping his ear to encourage schoolchildren to sing a little louder ...JUST WATCHED Pope Francis asks students to pray for him Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pope Francis asks students to pray for him 02:13... using complicated geometry (polyhedrons, Pope Francis?) to illustrate a point about globalization: that all parts -- all people -- are equidistant from the center ...... admitting, at a meeting dedicated to transmitting Catholic truths about the ideal family, that there is no such thing. Plates fly and children cause headaches and mothers-in-law ... well, don't get him started on that.Still, our families are "factories of hope," he said, our homes the site of a thousand tiny miracles.JUST WATCHED Pope Francis: 'Before creating the world, God loved' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pope Francis: 'Before creating the world, God loved' 02:37In Philadelphia, a city still reeling from a clergy sexual abuse scandal, he met with survivors. He apologized for the unforgivable and pledged to punish the guilty."God weeps," he said, after hearing survivors' stories.Later that day, he went to another place of pain, a Philadelphia prison, where the man in the clean white cassock said we all have stained souls and dirty feet.But we keep walking.And they walked, as well, to see him.The 88-year-old grandmother who left a short note on the kitchen table:"I went to see the Pope," she said. "This is my special pilgrimage."Marcella Louise Theresa Griffin Chambers, 88, walked some eight miles for a chance to see #PopeFrancis. "He is the most people-loving Pope," she said, still floored that she made it to see him Saturday night. #popeinphilly #CNN A photo posted by Catherine Shoichet (@catherinecnn) on Sep 27, 2015 at 6:48am PDTThe families caring for sick children who needed a spiritual shot in the arm. The priests who wanted to see their humble Holy Father. The immigrants who hear echoes of their voice in his softly accented Spanish.The Pope's people.After a summer of racial injustice and riots, a season of political scapegoating and talk of building walls, he came to build a bridge -- to be a bridge.And he was. For at least these six days, he brought our messy multitude together: singing, dancing, laughing, crying, hoping, praying."Esta es la juventud del papa, esta es la juventud del papa". La felicidad contagiosa de un grupo de jóvenes jubilosos después de asistir a la misa de Francisco en Filadelfia. A video posted by CNN en Español (@cnnee) on Sep 27, 2015 at 8:22pm PDTAnd before he flew back to Rome, he blessed our ambitious and chaotic country. And he asked us, as he always does, to please pray for him.