If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Today is the winter solstice, the shortest day of the year . And as a bonus, we'll be getting a full moon and a meteor shower this weekend, too. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. James MattisThe US Secretary of Defense has resigned in the wake of President Trump's surprise announcement about the withdrawal of US forces from Syria. And his resignation letter -- wow, it is a doozy. The respectful missive rejects key tenets of Trump's worldview, including his "America First" approach to diplomacy . Mattis also writes that the US must be "unambiguous" in dealing with adversaries like China and Russia and that the President should have a defense chief who shares his views.Mattis' unexpected exit has thrown Washington for a serious loop . Democratic Sen. Mark Warner called the situation "scary" and said Mattis was an "an island of stability" on Trump's team. Republican Gov. John Kasich of Ohio bemoaned the development, saying, "This chaos, both foreign and domestic, is putting America in danger and must stop immediately." In related news, it looks like the US military has been ordered to withdraw half its troops -- some 7,000 service members -- from Afghanistan. Trump apparently gave the order at the same time he ordered the Syria withdrawal.2. Government shutdownSo, it looks like we may well be headed for a partial government shutdown. President Trump said he'd refuse to sign that short-term spending bill the Senate passed Wednesday because it didn't include $5 billion for a border wall. So, the House scrambled and late yesterday passed a bill with the $5 billion. However, that bill will probably be DOA in the Senate because of the serious difference of opinion on the border wall money (and senators of both parties were miffed by Trump's ultimatum .)So, what would a partial government shutdown look like , just a few days before Christmas? The disruption would be minimal, because 75% of government activities are already funded. But more than 420,000 government workers would be expected to work with suspended pay, including law enforcement and correctional officers. All these budget worries have affected the already-sinking markets: The Dow dipped below 23,000 yesterday , its lowest point since October 2017.JUST WATCHED Trump might force shutdown over wall funding Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump might force shutdown over wall funding 04:543. Gatwick AirportThe UK's second-busiest airport is open again after it closed for 32 hours due to a group of lingering drones. But the problems are far from over for stranded and delayed holiday travelers. About 110,000 passengers and 760 flights were affected, and it looks like most people won't get compensated for cancelled or delayed flights since two days of drone chaos is probably an "an extraordinary circumstance" that exempts airlines from paying out. The big questions now are: Who was flying those drones and why? Sussex Police are investigating. They say the disruption was deliberate but not likely terror-related.JUST WATCHED Chaos at UK airport as drones halt flights Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chaos at UK airport as drones halt flights 01:154. Democratic Republic of the CongoThe long-awaited presidential election in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has been delayed -- again. The election, now set for December 30 , has repeatedly been postponed for some reason or another since 2016. This time, officials blame a warehouse fire this month in the capital of Kinshasa that destroyed 80% of the city's voting machines. Voters are supposed to choose a replacement for President Joseph Kabila, who has ruled for nearly 18 years. At the end of his second term in 2016, Kabila refused to step down and changed the constitution to stay in power. Since then, the extended "election season" has been marred by violence and tension. Further complicating matters is the country's growing Ebola crisis , with at least 560 reported cases.JUST WATCHED More than 300 dead in Ebola outbreak Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH More than 300 dead in Ebola outbreak 02:465. UK illnessA spike in reports of a polio-like illness has caught the attention of health officials in the United Kingdom . Twenty-eight cases of the rare and potentially debilitating condition called acute flaccid paralysis, or AFP, have been reported in England, most since September. The condition causes weakness or paralysis in the limbs and largely affects children. A record number of cases of a similar condition, acute flaccid myelitis, or AFM, have been seen this year in the US. Both conditions peak in the fall, and it isn't clear what exactly is causing the record spikes. Experts in both places say the conditions are associated with a viral infection. One of the biggest priorities in the UK is making sure no cases are directly caused by polio, which likely is in the same virus family.JUST WATCHED US parents fear polio-like deaths underreported Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US parents fear polio-like deaths underreported 02:43TODAY'S QUOTE"This indictment was based on evidence and testimony before the grand jury. It was not based on the #MeToo movement. So, let's be clear about that."Gloria Allred, responding to a New York judge's decision Attorney, responding to a New York judge's decision not to dismiss five felony sexual misconduct charges against disgraced movie mogul Harvey Weinstein. Allred represents one of the alleged victims. Weinstein has pleaded not guilty.BREAKFAST BROWSEThe Netherlands wants to pay people to cyclePhotos: Cycling in Amsterdam – Make like a Dutch local and travel around Amsterdam by bike. With the city being famously cyclist-friendly, this is one of the best ways to soak in the sights. Hide Caption 1 of 5 Photos: Cycling in Amsterdam – The famous canal of Amsterdam is a must-see. Cycle down the canal and check out the 800-year-old Oude Kerk "Old Church," the Dutch capital's oldest building and oldest parish church, built 1213. Hide Caption 2 of 5 Photos: Cycling in Amsterdam – The view from the canal is equally spectacular at night -- here, a houseboat is pictured. Hide Caption 3 of 5 Photos: Cycling in Amsterdam – Cycle to the Rijksmuseum National Museum, which showcases Dutch art dating back to the Middle Ages. Hide Caption 4 of 5 Photos: Cycling in Amsterdam – Cycle past Amsterdam Central Station and admire its architecture. Hide Caption 5 of 5Zimbabweans are petitioning Disney to lift the trademark on the phrase 'Hakuna Matata'Netflix darling, 'To All the Boys I've Loved Before,' is getting a sequelTiny AI robots took photos at a cat café to learn how to recognize the faces of people's catsJUST WATCHED Watch these cats play with tiny robots for science Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch these cats play with tiny robots for science 01:34'Survivor' crowns its Season 37 championBut the real "Survivor" winner is "Survivor" itself, as it will outlive the heat death of the universe and be rebooted with void matter and cockroaches.TODAY'S NUMBER12The number of primary debates Democrats plan to hold leading up to the 2020 presidential primary electionJUST WATCHED Poll: Iowa Democrats like Biden for 2020 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Poll: Iowa Democrats like Biden for 2020 02:57TOTAL RECALLQuiz time!What is the healthiest state, according to a report from the United Health Foundation?A. MassachusettsB. VermontC. HawaiiD. ArkansasPlay " Total Recall: The CNN news quiz " to see if you're right. And don't forget, you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."cnn news quiz 122018IT'S THE WEEKEND, BABYIf your kids just can't sit still waiting for Christmas to come, maybe a good trip to the movies will catch their attention. According to CNN's Brian Lowry, "Bumblebee" is an "unexpectedly appealing" prequel to the Transformers franchise . And who could forget Mary Poppins? The Emily Blunt-led sequel is, in Lowry's words, " perfectly passable but well short of practically perfect ." (Your friendly neighborhood newsletter writer has seen it, and it's a trip.)JUST WATCHED Emily Blunt in 'Mary Poppins Returns' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Emily Blunt in 'Mary Poppins Returns' 01:32AND FINALLYLike new again