Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia U.S. Supreme Court Police pallbearers carry Associate Justice Antonin Scalia's flag-covered casket between rows of Catholic clergy and out of the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception after his funeral on Saturday, February 20, in Washington. Hide Caption 1 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor, center, and former Justice David Souter, right, walk down the steps of the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception at the end of the funeral. Hide Caption 2 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Former U.S. Supreme Court Associate Justice John Paul Stevens departs from the funeral for Scalia. Hide Caption 3 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia The Rev. Paul Scalia, son of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, leads the funeral Mass for his father on February 20. Hide Caption 4 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Justice Clarence Thomas delivers a reading during the funeral Mass fo February 20. Hide Caption 5 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Scalia's casket is taken into the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception on February 20 in Washington. Hide Caption 6 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Maureen Scalia, right, arrives for the funeral for her husband on February 20. Hide Caption 7 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg arrives for Scalia's funeral on February 20. Hide Caption 8 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Justice Anthony Kennedy and his wife, Mary Davis, arrive at Scalia's funeral Mass on February 20. Hide Caption 9 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Justice Stephen Breyer and his wife, Joanna Hare, arrive on February 20. Hide Caption 10 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Chief Justice John Roberts, his wife, Jane Roberts, and daughter Josie Roberts arrive for the funeral on February 20. Hide Caption 11 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia The casket containing Scalia's body arrives at the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. Hide Caption 12 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia The hearse carrying Scalia's casket arrives at the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in Washington on February 20. Hide Caption 13 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Former Vice President Dick Cheney, left, and Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas take their seats for the funeral Mass on February 20. Hide Caption 14 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz arrives for the funeral Mass on February 20. Hide Caption 15 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia A hearse carrying the casket departs the U.S. Supreme Court Building on February 20. Hide Caption 16 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia U.S. President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama pay their respects as the body of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia lies in repose on Friday, February 19. Hide Caption 17 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia U.S. Supreme Court justices attend a private ceremony in the court's Great Hall on February 19. Facing the camera, from right, are justices Sonia Sotomayor, Stephen Breyer, Clarence Thomas, John Roberts, Anthony Kennedy, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Samuel Alito and Elena Kagan. Hide Caption 18 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia People look at a portrait of Scalia while paying their respects in Washington on February 19. Hide Caption 19 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Scalia's son Paul, a Catholic priest, leads a prayer for his father during the private ceremony at the Supreme Court. Hide Caption 20 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Family members watch as Scalia's casket is carried up the steps of the Supreme Court building on February 19. Hide Caption 21 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Law clerks line the steps of the Supreme Court building on February 19. "As is the tradition, Justice Scalia's law clerks will stand vigil by his side at the Court all day tomorrow and through the night," tweeted Kannon Shanmugam, who clerked for Scalia. Hide Caption 22 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia Pallbearers carry Scalia's casket on February 19. Hide Caption 23 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia People wait in line outside the Supreme Court on February 19. Hide Caption 24 of 26Photos: Remembering Justice Antonin Scalia People watch as Scalia's casket is carried toward the Supreme Court building. Hide Caption 25 of 26