If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Today is a national day of mourning for the late former President George H.W. Bush. That means a lot of government agencies will be closed and regular mail service suspended. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Mueller investigationAs expected, FBI special counsel Robert Mueller filed a sentencing memo for President Trump's ex-national security adviser, Michael Flynn. The big takeaway: Mueller suggested Flynn should NOT get prison time because he gave "substantial assistance" to the investigation . How substantial? The filings reveal Flynn sat for 19 interviews with the special counsel and other Justice Department officials, and not only did his information lay out a road map for the investigation, his early cooperation may have encouraged others to do the same. Despite this revelation, the filings were heavily redacted and didn't contain any concrete answers to big questions. But whatever is written under those black bars, it puts pressure on the Trump administration. A legal expert told CNN that such cooperation probably means Flynn's information helped Mueller build a criminal case . Against whom? REDACTED.2. Stocks3. Jamal KhashoggiRepublican senators had strong words after leaving a classified briefing about the murder of Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Sen. Bob Corker said outright that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman "ordered, monitored, the killing" of Khashoggi in October at Saudi Arabia's consulate in Istanbul. "If he were in front of a jury, he would be convicted of murder in about 30 minutes," he said. Sen. Lindsey Graham said, "There's not a smoking gun, there's a smoking saw." Both are leading a charge to rebuke the Crown Prince and possibly distance the US from Saudi Arabia's military interests. But GOP US Rep. Chris Stewart said on CNN that "journalists disappear all over the country" and this incident can't get in the way of US interestsJUST WATCHED Graham on Khashoggi: Crown Prince 'complicit' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Graham on Khashoggi: Crown Prince 'complicit' 02:004. SomaliaMore than two decades after closing its embassy in Somalia, the US announced it has re-established a permanent diplomatic presence in the East African nation. The US closed its embassy in the capital city of Mogadishu in January 1991, after the overthrow of the country's President, but has been warming up diplomatic sentiments. Somalia in recent years also has been subject to widespread famine and has been a regular focus of US counterterror efforts . US military strikes in Somalia have targeted suspected fighters for ISIS and a militant group linked to al Qaeda.JUST WATCHED How terrorists skim aid funds in Somalia Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How terrorists skim aid funds in Somalia 03:435. NYPD dronesDrones are coming to the nation's largest police force, and while they may have some seriously helpful applications, civil rights groups worry they could open the door to some Orwellian levels of privacy invasion. The NYPD announced it will start using a fleet of 14 drones : 11 small ones, two large weather-resistant ones with thermal imaging and zoom capabilities, and one testing drone. They'll be used to document crime scenes and collisions, monitor crowds and traffic at events, gather information at hazardous scenes, and even be used during hostage situations. They won't be used for routine patrol or traffic enforcement or to monitor citizens. Despite the promise, the New York Civil Liberties Union says it's concerned the department's policies don't place many official limits on drone use. NYPD says more than 900 police, fire and emergency units around the country already use drones in some form.Drone technology joins a long list of tools at the NYPD's disposal during emergency situations. All of which help the men and women in blue uphold their mission — to protect every New Yorker. pic.twitter.com/6wluH2044O — Chief Terence Monahan (@NYPDChiefofDept) December 5, 2018BREAKFAST BROWSEToo much sleep linked to greater risk of disease and death, study saysPhotos: Tips for better sleep Setting an alarm might be the only thing that helps you get up in the morning, but try setting one at night to remind you when it's time to go to bed. Click through our gallery for other tips for better sleep. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Did you know that having warm feet can help you sleep? Pull on a pair of socks before bed to speed up how quickly you'll fall asleep. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Even the smallest amount of light can disrupt your sleep patterns. Keep your bedroom as dark as possible for the best night's sleep. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Exercise regularly? You'll sleep better. Even a few minutes of physical activity a day can help. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Paint your bedroom a tranquil color to make your room a restful one. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Naps, when limited to 30 minutes and not too close to bedtime, won't interrupt your nightly sleep routine. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Yoga can help you wind down at the end of the day and calm your mind, which also slows your breathing and heart rate for better sleep. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Get some sunlight first thing in the morning. It triggers your brain to stay awake and alert early in the day and helps you ease into sleep a little earlier at night. Hide Caption 8 of 8A 9-year-old boy has convinced his Colorado town to lift its ban on snowball fightsWhat town is this? HallmarkMovieVilleA legislator wants to ban telemarketers from doing that annoying thing where their caller IDs mimic your home area code and numberCardi B and her husband Offset break upInside Brazil's abandoned Santa-themed amusement parkGood grief, this place is a nightmare. Gaze into the empty maw of Father Christmas , children! He sees you when you're sleeping!Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Sad Christmas: Park Albanoel is an abandoned Santa-themed park in Itaguaí, Brazil. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Santa-themed: The park was the brainchild of politician Antonio Albano Reis, who earned the nickname "Santa Claus of Quintino" because he dressed as Santa each Christmas. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Themed lands: The idea was the park would be a series of different themed lands over a large area, but only the Santa Park was completed. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Abandoned area: Reis died in a road accident in 2004. Not long after, Park Albanoel closed and fell into disrepair. It's been abandoned ever since. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Striking shots: British school teacher Christopher Jones, took photographs of Park Albanoel when he happened upon it on a road trip from Rio di Janiero to Paraty. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Big area: "It's this huge compound, completely open to the road," says Jones. "I think there was a very small wall, about a foot, two foot high and it's just it's completely abandoned. There's some sort of big house or residence behind it, but the sort of lawn area at the front is just completely open." Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Unsettling: Jones says the juxtaposition between our associations with Christmas and the abandoned park was unsettling. "[Christmas] is designed to be so happy, isn't it? And joyful," says Jones. "Yet these things are riddled with the cracks and mold." Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Natural setting: The fact that the park is situated in idyllic natural surroundings, Jones says, only added to the effect. "The actual site it's got quite a steep sort of valley side behind it and there's actually a beautiful waterfall in the background as well -- because it was quite faraway it's hard to get it in the same shot," he says. Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Completely abandoned: "If you go look at some of the structures and you peer through the doorways or the open windows, there's sort of smashed up Christmas statues and things inside them, which are particularly eerie," says Jones. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Crumbling Christmas: The site seems completely dilapidated. "It doesn't look like they've taken anything off site," says Jones. "Some bits have just crumbled to pieces and just been pushed inside." Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Urban exploration: The group were also cautious about venturing too far into the park, not knowing what they'd find. "We didn't want to get too far into the site, just in case," says Jones. "We stayed by the periphery, really, but who knows what else is in there?" Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Eerie edits: Jones posted the photographs on his Jones posted the photographs on his Flickr page -- he desaturated the shots and boosted the red color to emphasize the eerie effect. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Little-known spot: Internationally, the park doesn't seem to be as well known as other abandoned places around the world. "I think it's somewhere that not many people have actually know exists and have been in to actually photograph," says Jones. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: A photo tour of Brazil's creepy abandoned Christmas theme park Haunting experience: Several years later, the visit to Albanoel still haunts Jones. "It's striking isn't it? It's just visually striking," he says. Hide Caption 14 of 14TODAY'S NUMBER5.1 millionThat's how many pounds of beef are being recalled because they could be tainted with salmonella . This recall is an expansion of a recall that started in October. All in all, 12 million pounds of beef have been affected.JUST WATCHED What to do when food is recalled Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What to do when food is recalled 01:01TODAY'S QUOTE"I would like to end this speech with some words to young girls all over the world: Please, believe in yourselves."JUST WATCHED Ada Hegerberg: Surprised talk wasn't football Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ada Hegerberg: Surprised talk wasn't football 03:24AND FINALLYBeer me! Candy me! Everything me!