(CNN) Here is a look back at the events of 2018.The Dow closes at 25,075.13, the first ever close above 25,000.During a White House meeting on immigration reform, President Donald Trump reportedly refers to Haiti and African nations as "shithole countries." He reportedly says that the United States should get more people from countries like Norway.The Wall Street Journal reports that President Donald Trump had an alleged affair with a porn star named Stephanie Clifford , aka Stormy Daniels. The newspaper states that Trump's personal attorney, Michael Cohen, arranged a $130,000 payment for a nondisclosure agreement weeks before Election Day in 2016. Cohen denies that Trump had a relationship with Clifford.In Hawaii, a state emergency management worker pushes the wrong button in the emergency operation center, sending out a false warning during a ballistic missile alert drill . The employee thought the attack was real when he sent out the warning, according to a Federal Communications Commission report.January 17 - The The Dow closes at 26,115.65, the first time it has closed above 26,000.February 12 - The Smithsonian The Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery unveils the official portraits of former President Barack Obama and former first lady Michelle Obama. The portraits were painted by African-American artists Kehinde Wiley and Amy Sherald, a first in the history of presidential portraits.May 3 - Hawaii's Hawaii's Kilauea volcano begins erupting , sending a smoldering flow of lava into residential areas on the Big Island.May 7 - . Sessions says that individuals who violate immigration law will be criminally prosecuted and warns that parents could be separated from children. US Attorney General Jeff Sessions announces a "zero tolerance" policy for illegal border crossings . Sessions says that individuals who violate immigration law will be criminally prosecuted and warns that parents could be separated from children.May 9 - Three Three American detainees are released from North Korea. The Americans -- Kim Dong Chul, Kim Hak-song and Kim Sang Duk, also known as Tony Kim -- were freed while US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was on a visit to the North Korean capital of Pyongyang to discuss President Donald Trump's upcoming summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.May 17 - Gina Haspel is confirmed as the Gina Haspel is confirmed as the first female director of the CIAMay 25 - Film producer Film producer Harvey Weinstein is arraigned on charges of first- and third-degree rape and committing a criminal sexual act in the first degree, seven months after women began to come forward with stories alleging sexual misconduct by the famed Hollywood producer. The charges filed stem from incidents with two separate women in 2004 and 2013.July 5 - Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt resigns after months of Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt resigns after months of ethics controversies.August 28 - The The Puerto Rican government raises its official death toll from Hurricane Maria to 2,975 after a report on storm fatalities is published by researchers at George Washington UniversitySeptember 14 - Hurricane Florence makes landfall near Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina, as a Category 1 hurricane with maximum sustained winds of 90 mph. The death toll from the storm is at least 51, including 39 fatalities in North Carolina, nine deaths in South Carolina and three fatalities in Virginia.September 16 - . Christine Blasey Ford says she initially sent a letter to Senator Dianne Feinstein about the incident when Kavanaugh's name was included on a shortlist for the Supreme Court. Ford tells the newspaper she initially did not want to go public, but she decided to talk on the record because her letter to Feinstein had been leaked to the media. Kavanaugh denies that such an incident ever took place. The Washington Post publishes an article about a California professor accusing Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh of attempting to rape her when they were both teenagers in the early 1980s . Christine Blasey Ford says she initially sent a letter to Senator Dianne Feinstein about the incident when Kavanaugh's name was included on a shortlist for the Supreme Court. Ford tells the newspaper she initially did not want to go public, but she decided to talk on the record because her letter to Feinstein had been leaked to the media. Kavanaugh denies that such an incident ever took place.October 10 - Hurricane Michael makes landfall as a Category 4 hurricane in the Florida panhandle. With winds of approximately 155 mph, Michael becomes the strongest storm to hit the continental US since Hurricane Michael makes landfall as a Category 4 hurricane in the Florida panhandle. With winds of approximately 155 mph, Michael becomes the strongest storm to hit the continental US since Hurricane Andrew in 1992 . The death toll from Michael is 46 people across Florida, Georgia, North Carolina and Virginia.November 8 - A fire breaks out, burning through the town of Paradise, California. It's the A fire breaks out, burning through the town of Paradise, California. It's the most destructive wildfire in California history, and the deadliestDecember 7 - Beth Kimber becomes the Beth Kimber becomes the first woman to lead the CIA's Directorate of Operations.December 12 - President Donald Trump's former personal attorney, President Donald Trump's former personal attorney, Michael Cohen, is sentenced to three years in prison for crimes that included arranging payments during the 2016 election to silence women who claimed affairs with Trump.Notable International Events:January 27 - An An attacker driving an ambulance packed with explosives detonates them in Kabul, Afghanistan , leaving at least 103 people dead and more than 150 others injured, Afghan officials say. The Taliban claims responsibility for the attack.February 19-25 - At least At least 520 people are killed during airstrikes in Eastern Ghouta , an area outside Damascus, Syria, according to Doctors Without Borders.March 7 - Indian architect Indian architect Balkrishna Vithaldas Doshi is named the 2018 laureate of the Pritzker Prize , the first Indian to win the accolade in its four-decade history.March 25 - At least At least 64 people are killed and dozens injured when a fire breaks out at a shopping center in the Siberian city of Kemerovo.April 27 - During a day-long summit, During a day-long summit, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in pledge to formally end the Korean War , 65 years after hostilities ceased. The Panmunjom Declaration also calls for the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.April 30 - Ten journalists are among Ten journalists are among dozens killed in a series of attacks in AfghanistanMay - Fierce winds and lightning strikes created by Fierce winds and lightning strikes created by powerful rain and dust storms kill at least 100 people and injure hundreds more in northwestern India.May 9 - At least At least 45 people are killed when a dam bursts in Kenya after weeks of torrential rain. Later, criminal charges are filed against individuals involved in the construction of the dam.May 20 - During an During an election denounced by opposition leaders and the international community, Nicolás Maduro is re-elected president of Venezuela. Voter turnout falls to 46%, down from an 80% participation rate in 2013.June 18 - An An earthquake hits the Japanese city of Osaka , killing at least five people and injuring 214, Japan's government says.June 23 - Twelve members of Thailand's Wild Boars Twelve members of Thailand's Wild Boars youth soccer team and their coach enter the Tham Luang cave network, only to be trapped by rising flood waters. A team of international cave diving experts work to retrieve them, evacuating the boys one-by-one. The last of the group, the coach, successfully exits the cave on July 10.July - Landslides and flooding caused by torrential rain in Japan kill at least 200 people.July 14 - Haitian Prime Minister Jack Guy Lafontant resigns amid violent and deadly protests sparked by a proposed plan to raise fuel prices.July 16 - At least 149 people are killed and 186 are injured in a At least 149 people are killed and 186 are injured in a suicide attack in Pakistan that targeted the convoy of a political candidate in the general election , according to Qaim Lashari, the Deputy Commissioner of Balochistan's Mastung region.July 29 - Four cyclists - two Americans, a Swiss man and a man from the Netherlands - are killed and three others are injured when they are Four cyclists - two Americans, a Swiss man and a man from the Netherlands - are killed and three others are injured when they are run down by a car in southern Tajikistan . The car's occupants leave the vehicle and begin attacking the cyclists with knives. A day later, ISIS claims responsibility for the attack.September 2 - A massive A massive fire engulfs Brazil's National Museum , destroying priceless artifacts dating back centuries.September 20 - A ferry capsizes in Tanzania , killing at least 224 people. The captain of the overloaded ferry is later arrested.October 2 - . He is last seen walking into the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. In the month following his disappearance, Saudi officials release several shifting accounts of the events surrounding Khashoggi's death. Initially, the kingdom says the journalist left the consulate alive shortly after arriving. It later says he had died in a fistfight when a discussion turned violent. Next, the country's attorney general says new information received from Turkish investigators has led them to believe the killing was premeditated. Prominent Saudi journalist and Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi disappears . He is last seen walking into the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. In the month following his disappearance, Saudi officials release several shifting accounts of the events surrounding Khashoggi's death. Initially, the kingdom says the journalist left the consulate alive shortly after arriving. It later says he had died in a fistfight when a discussion turned violent. Next, the country's attorney general says new information received from Turkish investigators has led them to believe the killing was premeditated.October 5 - British artist Banksy's piece "Girl with Balloon (2006)" is sold for $1.4 million at a Sotheby's auction house in London. British artist Banksy's piece "Girl with Balloon (2006)" is sold for $1.4 million at a Sotheby's auction house in London. Moments after the sale, the image begins self-destructing, passing through a shredder hidden in its frame.October 28 - Jair Bolsonaro is declared the winner of Jair Bolsonaro is declared the winner of Brazil's presidential electionOctober 29 - Shortly after takeoff, Shortly after takeoff, Lion Air flight JT 610 crashes into the sea near Jakarta, Indonesia, killing all 189 people onboard.October 29 - German German Chancellor Angela Merkel announces she will not seek re-election when her term expires in 2021.December 11 - A gunman opens fire at the Strasbourg, France Christmas market, A gunman opens fire at the Strasbourg, France Christmas market, killing five peopleDecember 12 - UK Prime Minister Theresa May survives a vote of no-confidence among Tory members of parliament, garnering 200 votes of the 317 total. The vote was called after May postponed a parliamentary decision on a Brexit deal amid signs it would not be approved.December 16 - An An explosion near a pub in the northern Japanese city of Sapporo injures at least 42 people, including one critically, said Hokkaido Police public relations officer Ryohei Kashihara. The cause of the explosion is unknown and emergency services continue to investigate.December 22, 2018 - At least 426 people are killed when a tsunami hits the Sunda Strait in Indonesia. The tsunami, sparked by landslides from an erupting volcano, has left about 7,000 people injured and 43,000 displaced.A wards and Winners:January 7 - The The Golden Globes are presented. A number of actresses and actors attend the event dressed in black to support the Time's Up movement. The movement, launched at the start of the year by women and men from the entertainment industry, aims to combat sexual harassment in Hollywood and beyond.January 8 - The Alabama Crimson Tide defeats the Georgia Bulldogs 26-23 in overtime to win the The Alabama Crimson Tide defeats the Georgia Bulldogs 26-23 in overtime to win the College Football Playoff National Championship in Atlanta. This is Alabama's fifth national title since the 2009 season.January 15 - The 49th The 49th NAACP Image Awards are announced.January 15-28 - The The Australian Open takes place. Roger Federer defeats Marin Cilic in the men's final and Caroline Wozniacki defeats Simona Halep in the women's final.January 21 - The 24th Annual The 24th Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards are held. For the first time in the award show's history there is a host, Kristen Bell.January 28 - The 48th The 48th Pro Bowl takes place at Camping World Stadium in Orlando. The AFC team defeats the NFC team, 24-23.January 28 - The The NHL All-Star Game takes place at Amalie Arena in Tampa, Florida. The Pacific Division defeats the Atlantic Division, 5-2. Brock Boeser is named MVP.January 28 - The 60th Annual The 60th Annual Grammy Awards take place at Madison Square Garden in New York. This is the first time New York has hosted the Grammy Awards in 15 years.February 4 - The Philadelphia Eagles defeat the New England Patriots, 41-33, in The Philadelphia Eagles defeat the New England Patriots, 41-33, in Super Bowl LII (52) at the US Bank Stadium in Minneapolis.February 9-25 - The The 2018 Winter Olympics are held in Pyeongchang, South Korea.February 12-13 - The 142nd Annual The 142nd Annual Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show takes place. A male bichon frise nicknamed Flynn wins Best in Show.February 18 - Austin Dillon wins the 60th annual Austin Dillon wins the 60th annual Daytona 500March 4 - The 90th Annual The 90th Annual Academy Awards are presented. Jimmy Kimmel hosts.March 14 - Norwegian musher Joar Leifseth Ulsom wins his first Norwegian musher Joar Leifseth Ulsom wins his first IditarodApril 2 - In the In the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament , the Villanova Wildcats defeat the Michigan Wolverines 79-62, securing the Men's Championship to secure the title. The victory gives the Wildcats its third national championship in program history and the second in three years.April 2-8 - The 82nd The 82nd Masters tournament takes place. Patrick Reed finishes at 15-under 273, winning by one stroke over Rickie Fowler.April 16 - The The Pulitzer Prizes are announced. Rapper Kendrick Lamar wins the Pulitzer Prize for music. Since it was first established in 1943, the award has historically been granted only to classical and jazz.April 16 - The 122nd The 122nd Boston Marathon takes place. The winners are Yuki Kawauchi of Japan in the men's division and Desiree Linden of the United States in the women's division.May 5 - Justify wins the 144th Justify wins the 144th Kentucky DerbyMay 8-19 - The 71st The 71st Cannes Film Festival takes place.May 19 - Justify, ridden by Mike Smith, wins the 143rd Justify, ridden by Mike Smith, wins the 143rd PreaknessMay 27 - Will Power of Australia wins the 102nd running of the Will Power of Australia wins the 102nd running of the Indy 500May 27-June 10 - The The French Open takes place at Roland Garros Stadium in Paris. Simona Halep defeats Sloan Stephens to win her first Grand Slam title. Rafael Nadal beats Dominic Thiem to earn his 11th French Open title.June 7 - The Washington Capitals defeat the Vegas Golden Knights to win their first The Washington Capitals defeat the Vegas Golden Knights to win their first Stanley CupJune 8 - Finals - The Golden State Warriors defeat the Cleveland Cavaliers with a series win, 4-0, in the Finals - The Golden State Warriors defeat the Cleveland Cavaliers with a series win, 4-0, in the NBA FinalsJune 9 - Justify wins the 13th Justify wins the 13th Triple Crown after a victory at the 150th Belmont Stakes.June 10 - The 72nd Annual The 72nd Annual Tony Awards take place at Radio City Music Hall in New York.June 11-17 - Brooks Koepka of the United States wins the 118th Brooks Koepka of the United States wins the 118th US Open at Shinnecock Hills Golf Club in Southampton, New York. Koepka, who also took the title in 2017, is the first player to win two consecutive years since 1989.June 14-July 15 - The The World Cup (men's) takes place in Russia. France wins its second World Cup by defeating Croatia 4-2.July 2-15 - The The Wimbledon tennis championships take place in London. Novak Djokovic wins his fourth Wimbledon title against Kevin Anderson and Angelique Kerber defeats Serena Williams to claim her first Wimbledon title.July 7-29 - The 105th The 105th Tour de France takes place. Geraint Thomas of Great Britain's Team Sky becomes the first Welshman to win in the race's history.July 15-22 - The 147th The 147th Open Championship takes place at Carnoustie Golf Links in Carnoustie, Scotland. Francesco Molinari becomes the first Italian-born player to win the tournament.August 12 - Brooks Koepka wins the 100th Brooks Koepka wins the 100th PGA Championship at the Bellerive Country Club in St. Louis.August 27-September 9 - The The US Open Tennis Tournament takes place. Naomi Osaka defeats Serena Williams in a controversial women's singles final, 6-2, 6-4, to become the first Japanese player to win a Grand Slam singles title. Novak Djokovic defeats Juan Martin del Potro, 6-3, 7-6, 6-3, to win the men's singles title.September 17 - The 70th annual The 70th annual Primetime Emmy Awards are presented.October 1-8 - The The Nobel Prizes are announced. The Nobel Peace Prize is awarded to Denis Mukwege and Nadia Murad for their efforts to end the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war and armed conflict.October 28 - The Boston Red Sox win the The Boston Red Sox win the World Series , defeating the Los Angeles Dodgers 5-1 in Game 5 at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles.November 4 - The winners of the 48th The winners of the 48th New York City Marathon are Lelisa Desisa of Ethiopia in the men's division, and Mary Keitany of Kenya in the women's division.Notable Deaths in 2018:Ray Thomas - January 4John Young - January 5Jerry Van Dyke - January 5Keith Jackson - January 12Dolores O'Riordan - January 15Paul Bocuse - January 20Ursula K Le Guin - January 22Hugh Masekela - January 23Ingvar Kamprad - January 27Dennis Edwards - February 1John Mahoney - February 4Reg E. Cathey - February 9Vic Damone - February 11Daryle Singletary - February 12Emma Chambers - February 21Nanette Fabray - February 22Sridevi Kapoor - February 24Cynthia Heimel - February 25Sir Roger Bannister - March 3David Ogden Stiers - March 3Russ Solomon - March 4Hubert de Givenchy - March 10Tom Benson - March 15Louise Slaughter - March 16Zell Miller - March 23Steven Bochco - April 1Winnie Mandela - April 2Isao Takahata - April 5Chuck McCann - April 8Milos Forman - April 13R. Lee Ermey - April 15Harry Anderson - April 16Carl Kasell - April 17Reid Collins - April 19Tim Bergling "Avicii" - April 20Verne Troyer - April 21Larry Harvey - April 28Margot Kidder - May 13Tom Wolfe - May 14Philip Roth - May 22Jerry Maren - May 24Alan Bean - May 26Dwight Clark - June 4Kate Spade - June 5Danny Kirwan - June 8Matt "Guitar" Murphy - June 15Koko - June 19Charles Krauthammer - June 21Joe Jackson - June 27Matt Cappotelli - June 29Tab Hunter - July 8Adrian Cronauer - July 18Jonathan Gold - July 21Sergio Marchionne - July 25Charlotte Rae - August 5Joël Robuchon - August 6Robin Leach - August 24Bill Daily - September 4Burt Reynolds - September 6Malcolm McCormick "Mac Miller" - September 7Arthur Mitchell - September 19Marty Balin - September 27Charles Aznavour - October 1Willie McCovey - October 31Roy Clark - November 15Bob McNair - November 23Nancy Wilson - December 13Penny Marshall - December 17