If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.If you're looking for a last-minute gift idea, Richard Branson says he's hoping Virgin Galactic will take people to space before Christmas . Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia investigationSome of the mystery surrounding the Mueller investigation may finally be lifted this week. Some critical court filings focusing on Trump's first national security adviser , Michael Flynn, are due today, and documents related to his ex-campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, and attorney Michael Cohen are set to be released by the end of the week. The filings -- in the form of sentencing memos -- could offer some key new details about the investigation, and they could be damaging to President Trump. If you've been waiting for some serious clues about what the conclusion to this investigation may be -- and what the point of it all is -- experts say these filings could be the answer2. BrexitBrexit woes continue for the UK. Prime Minister Theresa May is facing serious backlash , even from within her own party, because of the rollout of her Brexit bill, which would solidify the terms of the UK's exit from the European Union. Critics argue she ignored a vote to publish the full legal advice on her bill, and others worry the bill's terms may not make for a clean break from the EU. May is due to address Parliament today to drum up support, but if the bill fails, her leadership could be in serious jeopardy . Meanwhile, a top EU legal adviser announced that the British government has the power to unilaterally stop the Brexit process , if it wants. If you still aren't keen on this whole Brexit thing, here's our guide for non-Brits3. North Carolina electionPossible evidence of voter fraud in a North Carolina House election is rocking the state. While investigating claims that absentee ballots were tampered with in a tight congressional race, North Carolina officials noticed many were signed by the same small group of people -- some of whom are connected to a longtime operative working for the GOP candidate's campaign. North Carolina requires witnesses, typically relatives or friends, to sign absentee ballots. But 161 absentee ballots shared the same small group of witnesses, many who apparently know each other. A common connection runs through Leslie McCrae Dowless, an operative who worked for the campaign of Mark Harris, the Republican who leads the race by 905 votes. Dowless reportedly has denied any wrongdoing.JUST WATCHED NC race unresolved amid fraud allegations Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NC race unresolved amid fraud allegations 02:344. TumblrSay good-bye to Tumblr as you know it. The popular blogging platform announced a serious crackdown on adult content , baffling devotees. Starting December 17, the platform will no longer allow any depictions of sex acts, even illustrated (if you know Tumblr, you know that's a big deal). It will also not allow any sexual depictions of "female-presenting nipples." (Rest assured, written erotica and fan fiction are still allowed). The crackdown comes after Tumblr admitted it had trouble identifying and removing content related to child sex abuse. Tumblr, like many social media platforms, has struggled with filtering and moderating content that toes the line of free speech, such as porn and hate speech. But many users of the platform, which attracts young, creative types and large media fandoms, think the most recent changes aren't a good fix.JUST WATCHED Tim Cook: Hate speech has no place on our platforms Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tim Cook: Hate speech has no place on our platforms 01:105. Sri LankaSri Lanka is in a constitutional crisis that has effectively left the South Asian country without a functioning government. Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa is refusing to step down even though he lost two no-confidence votes last month, and now the country's Court of Appeals has temporarily barred him and his Cabinet from carrying out official duties. Even though the decision puts the country's leadership in limbo, letting Rajapaksa continue to govern would cause "irreparable" damage to the country, one judge said. Rajapaksa is appealing the decision to the Supreme Court. The controversial Prime Minister was appointed in October in a decision that triggered nationwide protests.JUST WATCHED Everyone is looking for peace Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Everyone is looking for peace 01:21HAPPENING LATERFinal good-byesJUST WATCHED Bush's pastor describes his 'peaceful' passing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bush's pastor describes his 'peaceful' passing 02:27BREAKFAST BROWSEHere's how they train service dogs like George H.W. Bush's dog SullyJUST WATCHED Bush's service dog will travel to funeral Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bush's service dog will travel to funeral 00:53Poll asks: What does it mean to be a 'real American'?Passersby call 911 for a man clinging to life off the side of a house, but it turns out it was just a 'Christmas Vacation'- inspired decorationIf your Christmas decorations don't scare the neighbors , they're NOT FESTIVE ENOUGH.JUST WATCHED This holiday decoration is causing 911 calls Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This holiday decoration is causing 911 calls 01:23Preschoolers get served Pine-Sol instead of apple juiceThe new 'Captain Marvel' trailer is here and people are verklemptTODAY'S NUMBER$5.3 millionThe estimated cost of a new facility planned by the University of North Carolina that will house the Confederate monument, "Silent Sam." The monument has been the subject of controversy, but because of state laws, it can't be moved to a museum off campus.JUST WATCHED Protesters knock down Confederate statue at UNC (August) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Protesters knock down Confederate statue at UNC (August) 00:52TODAY'S QUOTE"Of all the ugliness in politics, the utter disrespect George Conway shows toward his wife, her career, place of work, and everything she has fought SO hard to achieve, might top them all."Eric Trump, in a tweet criticizing White House counselor Kellyanne Conway's husband . George Conway has been baldly critical of the Trump administration (yet not his wife).JUST WATCHED George Conway: Administration is 'dumpster fire' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH George Conway: Administration is 'dumpster fire' 03:04AND FINALLYDashing through the sNO THANK YOU