If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Look to the skies today and tomorrow. The Geminid meteor shower -- and its awesome green fireball show -- is at its peak.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Michael CohenPresident Trump's former "fixer" is headed to prison for a three-year stretch. Michael Cohen got the sentence after admitting he committed several crimes, including arranging payments during the 2016 election to silence women who allege affairs with Trump, who denies the claims. Cohen also said in court he covered up Trump's "dirty deeds." It's the longest sentence yet imposed on anyone connected to the President.But that wasn't all that went on yesterday. After the sentencing, federal prosecutors announced they had struck a deal with the parent company of the National Enquirer. In it, the company, which won't face charges, admitted it worked with members of Trump's 2016 presidential campaign in making a $150,000 payment to prevent ex-Playboy model Karen McDougal's claims of an affair with Trump from being made public before the election. Surprisingly, the President's Twitter feed was quiet on all of this, although one administration official said Trump did utter three words about Cohen: "He's a liar."So, what does all this mean for the President? Nothing good. Cohen will continue to cooperate with investigators, including those looking into the Trump Organization. And the upcoming sentencings of ex-campaign chair Paul Manafort and former national security adviser Michael Flynn will keep Robert Mueller's Russia probe in the national spotlight, much to Trump's chagrin.JUST WATCHED Trump seething after Cohen sentencing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump seething after Cohen sentencing 03:112. Theresa MayTheresa May lives on as British Prime Minister. May survived a no-confidence vote , meaning she keeps her job and the Brexit headache that goes along with it. Today she heads to Brussels for a summit with EU leaders where she can try to renegotiate the Brexit deal that she can't get through her own Parliament. If the EU still refuses to rework it, the prospect of the so-called "no-deal" Brexit becomes much more likely. That scenario -- in which the UK leaves the EU in March without a trade deal -- scares the daylights out of everybody because of its predicted food shortages, grounded flights and other economic calamities.JUST WATCHED Theresa May survives no-confidence vote Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Theresa May survives no-confidence vote 01:493. Turkey train crashAt least nine people are dead after a high-speed train crashed near Ankara. The train, which had left the station minutes earlier, slammed into a maintenance vehicle, causing part of a bridge to collapse onto two carriages. Video from the scene showed rescuers combing through warped metal and injured people being evacuated from the wreckage. There were 206 people on the train. At least 46 were injured. Three of those killed were train conductors.JUST WATCHED Several killed after train crash in Turkey Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Several killed after train crash in Turkey 00:254. Boy ScoutsJUST WATCHED Girls can join Boys Scout of America Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Girls can join Boys Scout of America 01:375. FentanylWhat's the deadliest drug in America? A new government report says it's fentanyl . The drug that killed pop icon Prince is the most commonly used drug in overdoses , the CDC's National Center for Health Statistics reports. The rate of drug overdoses involving the synthetic opioid spiked 113% each year from 2013 to 2016. Fentanyl was involved in almost 29% of all overdose deaths in 2016, compared with just 4% in 2011.JUST WATCHED Why are opioids so addictive? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why are opioids so addictive? 00:55BREAKFAST BROWSEWe would all go brokeLive in California? You might want to start finding new ways to communicate. The Golden State is seriously thinking about taxing text messagesBless our heartsJUST WATCHED Two earthquakes rattle parts of southern US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Two earthquakes rattle parts of southern US 01:04No more 'Ellen?'Ellen DeGeneres indicates she might end her super popular talk show when her contract is up in 2020.Saves on airfareScientists think an exotic fish native to Asia but found in California made the 5,000-mile trip from Japan by hitching a ride on debris from a tsunami.JUST WATCHED Scientists believe fish hitchhiked via tsunami Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Scientists believe fish hitchhiked via tsunami 01:27Gosselin v. GosselinRemember "Jon & Kate Plus 8?" Yeah, we barely do, either. Anyway, the divorced TV stars are still fighting over custody of their kids.THIS JUST IN'How do you like them ...'Apple says it will spend $1 billion to build a new campus in Austin, Texas, as well as establish new sites in Seattle, San Diego and Culver City, California. The tech giant also says it will create 20,000 new jobs in the US by 2023.JUST WATCHED Tim Cook: Hate speech has no place on our platforms Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tim Cook: Hate speech has no place on our platforms 01:10TODAY'S NUMBER3The number of US Navy nuclear-powered attack submarines " not certified to dive " because of maintenance delays caused by overcrowded shipyardsPhotos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The USS Michigan, an Ohio-class guided-missile submarine, arrives in Busan, South Korea, for a routine port visit in December 2010. Click through the gallery to see some of the other subs in the U.S. Navy's fleet. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet A dolphin swims in front of the Virginia-class attack submarine USS John Warner during its sea trials in May 2015. Virginia-class subs, displacing 7,800 tons and at 377 feet long, "are designed to seek and destroy enemy submarines and surface ships; project power ashore with Tomahawk cruise missiles and special operation forces (SOF); carry out inntelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) missions; support battle group operations; and engage in mine warfare," according to the Navy. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The Ohio-class guided-missile submarine USS Georgia (SSGN 729) departs Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay to conduct routine operations in October 2015. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The USS Seawolf, shown here in support of European operations in June 2015, is the lead vessel in the three-boat Seawolf class. The Seawolf and the USS Connecticut, the second boat in the class, displace 9,138 tons and are 353 feet long. Click to the next slide to learn more about the third sub in the class, the USS Jimmy Carter. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The Seawolf-class attack submarine USS Jimmy Carter is moored in a Washington state facility that reduces a ship's electromagnetic signature in 2006. The Jimmy Carter is 100 feet longer than the first two subs in its class. The extra space is for a "multimission platform," the Navy says. "This hull section provides for additional payloads to accommodate advanced technology used to carry out classified research and development and for enhanced warfighting capabilities." Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The U.S. Navy has more than a dozen ballistic missile submarines, also called boomers, in service. The boomers, 560 feet long, can carry 24 nuclear-armed Trident II ballistic missiles and serve as nuclear deterrents. Here, the Ohio-class ballistic-missile submarine USS West Virginia departs a naval shipyard in 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The Ohio-class guided-missile submarine USS Ohio transits Puget Sound, Washington, in June 2015. The Ohio and three other guided-missile subs -- USS Florida, USS Michigan and USS Georgia -- were originally built and deployed as ballistic-missile subs, but were converted to guided-missile platforms beginning in 2002 after the Navy concluded it had a surplus of the boomers. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The Los Angeles-class attack submarine USS Hampton surfaces through Arctic ice in March 2014. The Los Angeles-class is the biggest in the Navy's sub fleet, with a few dozen in commission. These subs displace 6,900 tons and are 360 feet long. The class was introduced in 1976. Hide Caption 8 of 8TODAY'S QUOTE"Obviously, I was joking when I was talking on the podcast."NBA superstar Steph Curry, walking back his comment on a sports podcast that he doesn't believe humans landed on the moon. He's also taking NASA up on its offer to tour the Johnson Space Center.AND FINALLYAll by myself