If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Yes, the government is (partially) shut down, but that's not going to stop NORAD from tracking Santa Claus tonight. Here's what else you need to know toon this Christmas Eve. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. PoliticsIt's Christmas Eve and part of the government is shut down, but the news is still coming fast and furious out of Washington. First up, Chief Justice John Roberts issued a temporary pause on an order holding an unnamed, foreign government-owned company in contempt over a mystery court case related to Robert Mueller's Russia investigation. This will give the Supreme Court time to decide if it wants to intervene in this particular case, which is the first known legal challenge related to Mueller's probe to make its way to the high court.Earlier in the day, President Trump said he would replace outgoing Defense Secretary James Mattis by January 1, months earlier than Mattis' planned departure. The President was reportedly infuriated at the tone of the coverage of Mattis' resignation and took action to replace him sooner than planned. So Deputy Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan will take over for Mattis, on an interim basis, at the start of the new year.Now, what about that shutdown? It will continue past Christmas (the Senate is not in session again until Thursday) and there's a strong chance it'll still be going on when the new Congress meets in early January . A bit of negotiating went on over the weekend between Senate Democrats and the White House, but as of right now, a deal to end all of this seems to be a long way off2. Indonesia tsunamiJUST WATCHED Indonesia President orders early detection system Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Indonesia President orders early detection system 01:573. Al Qaeda and planesWe don't hear about Al Qaeda as much as we used to, but it's still around. And the United Kingdom's security minister warns the "resurgent" terror group wants to attack passenger planes in Europe . Al Qaeda is working on new methods to bring down planes, says UK Security Minister Ben Wallace, who also warns that President Trump's decision to pull US troops out of Syria will create a "new safe haven" for terrorists to launch attacks on the West.JUST WATCHED Allies fear US pullout in Syria emboldens ISIS Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Allies fear US pullout in Syria emboldens ISIS 03:004. Morocco tourist killingsMore people have been arrested in the horrifying beheading deaths of two Scandinavian tourists in Morocco. A total of 13 people are in custody so far. Four of them are suspected of directly taking part in the killings, while the other nine were arrested for their alleged connection to the four murder suspects. Morocco considers the killings to be a terrorist act. In a video which purportedly shows the decapitations, some of the suspects pledge allegiance to ISIS. The bodies of the victims -- 28-year-old Maren Ueland of Norway and 24-year-old Louisa Jespersen of Denmark -- were found on a remote mountain range.JUST WATCHED 13 arrested after tourists killed in Morocco Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 13 arrested after tourists killed in Morocco 01:315. Lost and foundSince it's the day before Christmas, let's talk about something more in keeping with the holiday spirit. Like the subway rider in New York who did something really nice last week. He found a purse with $10,000 in cash on a train platform. Instead of going on a Christmas gift spending spree, he took the bag of cash to the police. Turns out it belonged to a Manhattan woman who was headed to Russia for a vacation. The man said he didn't think he'd done anything all that special and that it was "something most people would have done."JUST WATCHED Man finds purse with $10,000 inside Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man finds purse with $10,000 inside 01:20TODAY'S QUOTE"Even with the most deeply held differences, treating the other person with respect and as a fellow human being is always a good first step towards greater understanding."Queen Elizabeth II, in her , in her annual Christmas Day messageBREAKFAST BROWSEA Christmas miracleThe two sailors had been stranded in the Caribbean for weeks. They were low on food and water and out of fuel. Then the cruise ship showed upJUST WATCHED Cruise ship rescues sailors stranded at sea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cruise ship rescues sailors stranded at sea 00:35Ice, ice babySweden's famous ice hotel is up and running again, this time with 15 new suites carved out by artists and designers.Tongue tiedAll that glitters ain't goldIt was a great story: Porch pirates hit by an engineer's "glitter bombs" as they stole packages. Turns out there's a little bit more to this taleTODAY'S NUMBER$10 millionThe amount of the fine South Korea hit BMW with over the automaker's handling of a string of engine fires in the countryAND FINALLYChristmas fail