Story highlights Paterno family wants to appeal NCAA sanctions against Penn StateIt argues NCAA relied on flawed report, acted hastilyNCAA said such an appeal is not allowed in this caseJoe Paterno's family said Friday it intends to appeal the National Collegiate Athletic Association's sanctions against Penn State University in the aftermath of the child sexual abuse scandal.But the family's plans hit an immediate roadblock."Penn State's sanctions are not subject to appeal," said NCAA spokesman Bob Williams.Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Final tributes, Paterno statue removed – Workers on Tuesday, July 24, remove the concrete landing area and wall where the Joe Paterno statue once stood in State College, Pennsylvania. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Final tributes, Paterno statue removed – A girl takes a picture at the site where the statue of former Penn State University football coach Joe Paterno stood. It sits empty now after it was removed by workers outside Beaver Stadium on Sunday, July 22. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Final tributes, Paterno statue removed – The statue was removed exactly six months after Joe Paterno, the winningest coach in Division I football history, died of lung cancer. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Final tributes, Paterno statue removed – Workers wrap the statue of late Penn State football coach Joe Paterno in preparation for its removal on Sunday. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Final tributes, Paterno statue removed – The 900-pound bronze statue will be stored in a "secure location" in the wake of the Jerry Sandusky scandal, university President Rodney Erickson said. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Final tributes, Paterno statue removed – Onlookers battle emotions as the statue is removed Sunday. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Final tributes, Paterno statue removed – Visitors gather around the Paterno statue on Saturday, July 21. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Final tributes, Paterno statue removed – Though the statue was removed from Beaver Stadium, the university library will continue to bear Paterno's name. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Final tributes, Paterno statue removed – Fans like Rachel O'Brien, center, 20, of Mifflinburg, Pennsylvania, have been steadily flocking to the site since Paterno's death in January. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Final tributes, Paterno statue removed – The removal of the statue comes ahead of sanctions on Penn State from the NCAA, to be announced Monday. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Final tributes, Paterno statue removed – A tribue to Paterno sits at the base of the statue on Saturday. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Final tributes, Paterno statue removed – Visitors gather around the statue on Saturday. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Final tributes, Paterno statue removed Final tributes, Paterno statue removed – The Paterno statue continued to draw visitors Saturday, a day before it was removed from the stadium. Hide Caption 13 of 13Calling it "a stark wake-up call to everyone involved in college sports," the NCAA in late July announced a $60 million fine against Penn State University and stripped 14 seasons of football victories from the late Paterno. Penn State President Rodney Erickson said the university had accepted the decision and would not appeal.Wick Sollers, attorney for Paterno's family, said the sanctions caused "enormous damage" to Penn State, students, athletes and Paterno.The sanctions are part of the continued fallout from the child sex abuse scandal involving former assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky, who was convicted in late June of 45 of the 48 counts he faced involving 10 young victims.The NCAA action followed an independent investigation led by former FBI Director Louis Freeh, whose report held Paterno and other top Penn State officials responsible for failing to stop the abuse beginning in 1998.Paterno's family sharply objected to Freeh's findings and criticized the NCAA and university leadership for accepting the report's conclusions.The Freeh report, Sollers wrote, "is incomplete, rife with unsupported opinions and unquestionably one-sided."Soller's letter also argued the NCAA acted hastily and without regard for due process.The family contends it can appeal because Paterno was named in the consent decree and in the Freeh report.Penn State faced a multiyear shutdown of its football program had it not agreed with the sanctions, Erickson told CNN.