Story highlights iReporter recalls vivid scenes from "safe" side of floodgateOfficials expected to blow relief hole in one leveeSome residents rescued from rooftops"Katrina took away the shock value," says one residentKim Duplantier's three-story colonial plantation-style home survived Hurricane Katrina, albeit with 3 feet of unwelcome water on the bottom floor.But Isaac, still a hurricane when it made landfall in Louisiana, had something more in mind.The slow-moving storm presented an insidious calling card after heavy rains "overtopped" a levee in the town of Braithwaite in Plaquemines Parish.At 4:30 a.m. Wednesday, Duplantier said, a couple of inches of water were evident in her redbrick home and in her parents' residence nearby.Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Melanie and Philip Martinez Sr. have dinner in daughter Kala's one-bedroom apartment on Saturday, September 8, in Chalmette, Louisiana. Melanie, along with her husband and mother, are staying in Kala's apartment after their home in Braithwaite flooded during Hurricane Isaac. It was the fifth home Martinez has lost to hurricanes in Louisiana. Hide Caption 1 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Melanie Martinez, center, waits in line to apply for disaster food assistance in Mereaux, Louisiana. Hide Caption 2 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – On Friday, September 7, Gina Hunter walks past the front porch of her home, which washed onto a levee in Plaquemines Parish in Braithwaite, Louisiana. "I never expected to have the levee as my backyard," Hunter says. Louisiana officials estimate at least 13,000 homes were damaged by Hurricane Isaac. Hide Caption 3 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Mud coats the kitchen of the flooded Mary Plantation House, the oldest structure in Louisiana's Plaquemines Parish, on Thursday, September 6. At least 13,000 homes were damaged throughout Louisiana after Hurricane Isaac came ashore last week, a state official estimates. Hide Caption 4 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Marie Hauser picks up her mail outside her flooded house Thursday in LaPlace, Louisiana. Hide Caption 5 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Blake Miller, right, and Mike Atkins check out the grounds of the Mary Plantation House on Thursday. Hide Caption 6 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Floodwaters linger Thursday in Braithwaite, Louisiana. Hide Caption 7 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Worker Holly Rochelle sorts a resident's laundry, washed for free at the Tide Loads of Hope mobile laundromat set up for those affected by Isaac, on Thursday in LaPlace. Hide Caption 8 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A paper hand fan sits caked in mud from flooding at Bethlehem Baptist Church in Plaquemines Parish on Wednesday, September 5. Hide Caption 9 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – An insurance inspector tours the damaged Bethlehem Baptist Church on Tuesday. Hide Caption 10 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Richard Williams of the Braithwaite neighborhood in Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana, trudges through a debris field pulling a boat filled with things from his flooded home on Wednesday. Hurricane Isaac inundated his two-story home. Hide Caption 11 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Fred Leslie is helped into a boat by Jesse Shaffer after he and his half-brother made their way to the house to retrieve items on Wednesday. The Braithwaite neighborhood is still under four feet of water eight days after Hurricane Isaac hit. Hide Caption 12 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Ruth Bernard feeds ice to Micah Faciane to stay cool as they wait in line to apply for disaster food assistance on Wednesday in Westwego, Louisiana. Hundreds affected by Hurricane Isaac waited hours in the heat to apply for the Disaster Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. Hide Caption 13 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Residents wait in line to apply for disaster food assistance on Wednesday in Westwego, Louisiana. Hide Caption 14 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Louis Lipps tries to salvage belongings near his house on Lake Pontchartrain in LaPlace, Louisiana, on Tuesday, September 4. Many residents returning to their homes in southern Louisiana after Hurricane Isaac will find little comfort. Authorities have blamed eight U.S. deaths on Isaac, six of them in Louisiana, after it made landfall last week as a Category 1 hurricane. Hide Caption 15 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Royal Ann Moll stands in the doorway of her home in Jean Lafitte, Louisiana, as friend Tilden Perez Jr. tries to spray away mud from the front yard Tuesday. Perez and his wife rode out the storm in Moll's house, which took on about 11 inches of water. Hide Caption 16 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Joe Chianelli Jr. retrieves a gas tank Tuesday that washed onto a levee in Plaquemines Parish in Braithwaite, Louisiana, during the storm. Hide Caption 17 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Utility crews work to restore electricity Tuesday in Harvey, Louisiana. Hide Caption 18 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Returning residents wait in line Tuesday for a ferry in Plaquemines Parish. Hide Caption 19 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A wounded horse recovers Tuesday in Poydras, Louisiana, after being rescued when it got stuck in mud from storm flooding. Hide Caption 20 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A home washed away from its foundation sits on a roadside Tuesday in Braithwaite in Plaquemines Parish. Hide Caption 21 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Melanie Martinez holds the family cat, now renamed Isaac, after salvaging items from her family's flooded home in Braithwaite on Monday, September 3. Martinez, along with her husband and her mother, was forced to ride out the storm in their Plaquemines Parish home when their car broke down. Hide Caption 22 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Melanie Martinez walks through the front yard Monday as family members salvage items from their flooded home in Braithwaite, Louisiana. Hide Caption 23 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Melanie Martinez, left, and family members salvage items from their flooded home Monday. Hide Caption 24 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A coffin lies on the side of a levee Monday in Braithwaite, Louisiana, washed up by floodwaters from Hurricane Isaac. Hide Caption 25 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Eric DeSalvo salvages a gun Monday from the flooded Martinez home in Braithwaite, Louisiana. Hide Caption 26 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Melanie Martinez, center, and Kala Martinez salvage items from their flooded home on Monday. Hide Caption 27 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Workers repair the roof of a home as downed power lines caused by Hurricane Isaac lean onto a tree in lower Plaquemines Parish on Sunday, September 2. Hide Caption 28 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A Paradise Lane street sign is partially submerged in Isaac's floodwaters in Braithwaite, Louisiana, on Saturday, September 1. Hide Caption 29 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A damaged structure rests atop a partially submerged truck in Braithwaite, Louisiana. Hide Caption 30 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Russell Wilson, center, helps to move a water-damaged Drew Brees jersey from his daughter's home in Braithwaite. Hide Caption 31 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Plaquemines Parish resident Angela Serpas reacts after seeing her flooded home for the first time following Hurricane Isaac, as her daughter Lainy takes pictures, in Braithwaite, Louisiana, on Saturday, September 1. Hide Caption 32 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – The Walker family leaves their home after an abandoned house next door collapsed onto theirs during Tropical Storm Isaac on Friday, August 31. The Red Cross was assisting the family in finding a place to stay. Hide Caption 33 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Cattle are stuck in a mixture of mud and debris washed in by Isaac's storm surge. Officials are attempting to conduct a roundup in Plaquemines to save about 200 cattle stranded by the storm. Hide Caption 34 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Local residents serve up chicken etouffee and rice delivered by the Louisiana National Guard at JJ's Bar in the Bywater neighborhood of New Orleans. The military gave out the food to residents of the area, which was still without electricity three days after Hurricane Isaac knocked out power to hundreds of thousands of people. Hide Caption 35 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Local residents drink by candlelight at JJ's bar during the continued blackout. Hide Caption 36 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Oil containers and railroad cars sit in Isaac's flood waters in Braithwaite, Louisiana. Hide Caption 37 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney talks with a man on the side of the road while on an unscheduled tour of a neighorhood damaged by Isaac on Friday, August 31, in Lafitte, Louisiana. Hide Caption 38 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A family carries bags of ice and boxes of food from an aid distribution center for victims of Isaac in New Orleans. The center was one of three in the city operated by the military, offering handouts to residents, many of whom still have no electricity due to the storm. Hide Caption 39 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Residents look out from their residence surrounded by water as the motorcade of Romney passes during a tour of damage from Isaac in Lafitte. Hide Caption 40 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Flood waters from Tropical Storm Isaac swamp homes in Braithwaite, Louisiana, on Friday, August 31, 2012. Hide Caption 41 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Vivian Lane, 5, helps her mother, Ashley Lane, make rice and gravy on their porch after Hurricane Isaac knocked out their power in Bay Saint Louis, Mississippi, Friday. Hide Caption 42 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Tombstones washed from their resting place by flood waters from a levee breach in Braithwaite, Louisiana, on Friday. Hide Caption 43 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – The ship Arosa Basel sits grounded on the east bank of the Mississippi River in Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana, Friday. Hide Caption 44 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Dead nutria lie on the shore near Waveland, Mississippi, on Friday. Hide Caption 45 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A truck, partially submerged by a levee breach, gives off a sheen of oil and fuel in Braithwaite, Louisiana, on Friday. Hide Caption 46 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Members of the Louisiana Army National Guard and Louisiana Air National Guard distribute water, MREs and ice at Skelly-Rupp Stadium in New Orleans on Friday. Hide Caption 47 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Jewel Rico and her dog Chico are rescued from flood waters from Isaac on Thursday, August 30, in Reserve, Louisiana. Hide Caption 48 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Darrell Hill, 11, feeds his sister Floy Dillon, 2, at a flood shelter set up in a high school gym. Hide Caption 49 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – People get off a Slidell Police Department SWAT vehicle after being rescued from flooding from Isaac's storm surge on the north shore of Lake Pontchartrain. Hide Caption 50 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Residents sit on a bus Thursday after evacuating Laplace, Louisiana. Hide Caption 51 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A heavy band of storms hovers ominously over New Orleans in the aftermath of Isaac on Thursday. Hide Caption 52 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Two men paddle a boat with street signs in flood waters from Hurricane Isaac in Reserve, Louisiana. Hide Caption 53 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Subdivisions in LaPlace, west of U.S. 51 and south of Interstate-10 are covered in floodwaters in the aftermath of Isaac. Hide Caption 54 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – The Lake Borgne Basin Levee District and other government agencies intentionally breached the Caernarvon Diversion to help drain flood waters in Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana. Hide Caption 55 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A woman is stranded with her truck in floodwaters from Isaac on the north shore of Lake Pontchartrain on Thursday in Slidell, Louisiana. Hide Caption 56 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Brittany Trumbaturi, right, prepares to leave her flooded home with family member Joshua Barbot, center, who came to rescue family members in a boat. Officials warned of continued threats from storm surges and flooding as Isaac moved inland. Hide Caption 57 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Jamaal Nelson carries his son, Jon-Wesley, 6, on his back and his 4-month-old baby daughter, Jalashia, while being evacuated from their flooded neighborhood in Slidell. Hide Caption 58 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Residents stand in front of their home as flooded streets engulf their neighborhood in Slidell. Hide Caption 59 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Elderly residents evacuate to a shelter in Slidell Hide Caption 60 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A resident evacuates an area flooded by Hurricane Isaac's storm surge on the north shore of Lake Pontchartrain. Hide Caption 61 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Residents evacuate their flooded neighborhood. Hide Caption 62 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A man drives an off-road vehicle through flooded streets in Slidell. Hide Caption 63 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Residents carry pillows, blankets and fuel containers past a flood berm while evacuating an area of rising floodwaters on Thursday in Slidell. Hide Caption 64 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – An elderly resident is rescued from her home in Slidell. Hide Caption 65 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Residents run down a road in Slidell clutching their belongings as they evacuate an area of rising floodwaters from Isaac's rains. Hide Caption 66 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Rescue workers transport residents trapped by rising water from Isaac in Laplace, Louisiana, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 67 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Water surrounds a home on the Jourdan River in Kiln, Mississippi, as Isaac moves through the area. Hide Caption 68 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Residents are rescued Wednesday in Laplace, about 25 miles northwest of New Orleans, where the storm surge was unusually bad. Hide Caption 69 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Henry Cox talks with stranded residents in Laplace. Hide Caption 70 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Errol Ragas walks past a cemetery to recover dry blankets from his home as rising waters flood in Oakville, Louisiana. Plaquemines Parish, south of New Orleans, was the area most heavily damaged by the hurricane. Hide Caption 71 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Storm-weary residents take refuge at a high school gymnasium in Belle Chasse, a low-lying area outside of New Orleans. Hide Caption 72 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – St. John Parish Sherriff officials rescue local residents from the flood waters in Laplace. Hide Caption 73 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – Lisa, Christopher and Leroy Smith sit in a boat after being pulled from the flood waters. Hide Caption 74 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A stop sign stands askew in New Orleans after being blown by Isaac. Hide Caption 75 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – People gather at a bar in the French Quarter during ongoing rain from Isaac. The area appeared largely unscathed by the storm. Hide Caption 76 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac's trail of destruction – A house in New Orleans collapsed during the height of Hurricane Isaac, destroying three vehicles parked alongside it Wednesday. Hide Caption 77 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Waves from Hurricane Isaac pummel Ken Combs Pier in Gulfport, Mississippi. Hide Caption 78 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A street sign turned upside down, likely the result of bricks falling overnight from a building along the deserted streets of New Orleans. Hide Caption 79 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A car sits submerged in Laplace, Louisiana. Hide Caption 80 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – People gather beneath an awning for an impromptu cookout at a bar that lost electricity during Hurricane Isaac in New Orleans. Hide Caption 81 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Emergency crews and residents rescue a dog during Hurricane Isaac on Highway 39 separating Plaquemines and St. Bernard parishes on Wednesday, August 29, in Louisiana. Hide Caption 82 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – First responders carry people across the top of the levee from Plaquemines Parish to St. Bernard Parish. Hide Caption 83 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Mark Savoie cleans Espanade Avenue in New Orleans of tree debris to help the area near Burgundy drain as Isaac slowly moves inland. Hide Caption 84 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A worker in the driving rain tries to clear fallen limbs in the riverbound lanes of Espanade Avenue near McDonogh High School in New Orleans. Hide Caption 85 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Winds from Isaac knocked down tree branches in Kenner, Louisiana. Hide Caption 86 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A child and an adult share a folding bed as storm-weary residents take refuge at a high school gymnasium in Belle Chasse, in low-lying Plaquemines Parish, outside of New Orleans. Hide Caption 87 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A tree toppled by Isaac stretches across the roof of a food stand in Arabi, Louisiana. Hide Caption 88 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A tree blown over from Hurricane Isaac lies atop a cemetery tomb in Plaquemines Parish. Hide Caption 89 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A street sign lies near floodwaters fromIsaac on Wednesday, in Braithwaite, Louisiana. Dozens were reportedly rescued in the area after levees were overtopped by floodwaters from Hurricane Isaac. Hide Caption 90 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A rescue boat passes a partially submerged stop sign. Hide Caption 91 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A car drives down Canal Street on Wednesday. The storm is slowly moving across southeast Louisiana, dumping large amounts of rain and knocking out power in scattered parts of the state. Hide Caption 92 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A traffic light continues to glow after being downed by Isaac's winds. Hide Caption 93 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A fallen tree blocks a road in New Orleans as Isaac batters the city and surrounding region, flooding homes and driving stormy waters over the top of at least one levee. Hide Caption 94 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Dozens were reportedly rescued in Plaquemines Parish after levees were overtopped by floodwaters. Hide Caption 95 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – John Stone of Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, and his dog are led out of the water by a member of the Swift Water Rescue Team after being rescued from his flooded house. Hide Caption 96 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A tree was pushed over outside Tulane Medical Center in New Orleans. Hide Caption 97 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – People rest in a rescue truck atop a levee in Plaquemines Parish. Hide Caption 98 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Rescue workers survey the floodwaters from a levee in Braithwaite. Hide Caption 99 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Police officers stand watch in the French Quarter. Hide Caption 100 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Isaac pounds Gulf CoastA traffic light dangles at an intersection in Metairie, Louisiana, during strong wind and rain as Hurricane Isaac pushes ashore. Hide Caption 101 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A tree toppled by hurricane-force winds lies on power lines near a home in New Orleans. Hide Caption 102 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A storm surge causes water to quickly rise while waves pound the concrete seawall along the shores of Lake Pontchartrain in New Orleans on Tuesday, August 28. Hide Caption 103 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Scott Burley runs from crashing surf on the Ken Combs Pier in Gulfport, Mississippi. Hide Caption 104 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Jason Preston closes shutters on a home in Gulfport, Mississippi, as Hurricane Isaac approaches. Hide Caption 105 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Emily Schneider leans against a pole to support herself against strong winds while visiting the banks of Lake Pontchartrain in New Orleans, where Hurricane Isaac has made landfall. Hide Caption 106 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Water rises from a bayou, flooding properties ahead of the arrival of Hurricane Isaac in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi. Hide Caption 107 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Bridgette Mooney, her husband Kevin, and their 15-month-old daughter Skyler watch from their home as Hurricane Isaac lashes their property with rain in Kiln, Mississippi. Hide Caption 108 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Employees of the Orleans Levee District remove signs from Lake Shore Drive near the shore of Lake Pontchartrain. Hide Caption 109 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Evan Stoudt faces strong winds from the banks of Lake Pontchartrain. Hide Caption 110 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A man walks on Canal Street in New Orleans. Hide Caption 111 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Joshua Keegan and Ruffin Henry swim at Lake Pontchartrain. Hide Caption 112 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – High surf splashes along Highway 193 north of the Dauphin Island Bridge in Alabama. Hide Caption 113 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Waves from Hurricane Isaac smash against a warning sign at a flooded beach in Biloxi, Mississippi. Hide Caption 114 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A group of men sit on a bench at the edge of Lake Pontchartrain as Hurricane Isaac approaches. Hide Caption 115 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Matthew Pettus holds a sheet open in the wind on the levee near Lake Pontchartrain. Hide Caption 116 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – People make their way across Canal Street in New Orleans. Hide Caption 117 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Joshua Keegan and his dog Scout swim in the rising water of Lake Pontchartrain. Hide Caption 118 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A Mississippi Department of Transportation sign in Hattiesburg warns southbound motorists on U.S. 49 of rough weather conditions on Tuesday, August 28. Hurricane Isaac is expected to drop heavy rain on the Mississippi Coast over the next couple of days. Hide Caption 119 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A woman and her dog watch the waves produced by Hurricane Isaac on the shore of Lake Pontchatrain in New Orleans on Tuesday. Hurricane Isaac is expected to make landfall later tonight along the Louisiana coast. Hide Caption 120 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal and New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu receive an update on the status of the pumping station at the 17th Street Canal in Metairie, Louisiana. Hide Caption 121 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A couple takes photos in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi. Many residents of the area decided to stay in their homes instead of evacuating. Hide Caption 122 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A man skateboards past a bar with boarded windows in the French Quarter in New Orleans. Hide Caption 123 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Diana Whipple of New Orleans watches waves crash on the shore of Lake Pontchartrain as Hurricane Isaac approaches Tuesday. Isaac became a Category 1 hurricane Tuesday when its maximum sustained winds reached 75 mph, the National Hurricane Center says. Hide Caption 124 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Workers try to close off state Highway 23 South in Oakville, Louisiana, on Tueday as Issac heads toward the coast. Hide Caption 125 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Gallery Nine Forty in New Orleans' French Quarter notifies customers it's "on Hurrication." Hide Caption 126 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Workers board up a business on Bourbon Street in the French Quarter as Isaac approaches Tuesday. Hide Caption 127 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Hydraulic pumps are prepared at the 17th Street Canal floodwall Tuesday in New Orleans. Hide Caption 128 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A woman enjoys the a heavy rain in the Tampa, Florida, area, on Monday. Hurricane Isaac is expected to make landfall near New Orleans. Hide Caption 129 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Mounted law enforcement officials wait out a brief rainstorm during the National Republican Convention. Commercial bus cancellations caused by Isaac prevented many of the expected demonstrators from being present. Hide Caption 130 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A sign in the French Quarter makes fun of Hurricane Isaac. Hide Caption 131 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Workers place plywood on the windows of the Royal Sonesta Hotel on Bourbon Street. Hide Caption 132 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Aimo Ny rests on her cot in the hurricane shelter at the Belle Chasse Auditorium on Monday in Belle Chasse, Louisiana. Hide Caption 133 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – iReporter Liz Yavinsky snapped this picture of a boy floating down a flooded street in West Palm Beach, Florida, on Monday. Hide Caption 134 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – The manager of a shoe store in Harvey, Louisiana, places plywood over the windows in preparation of Hurricane Isaac. Hide Caption 135 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A crew from Jefferson Parish Drainage Department places large sandbags near a canal and pond in Jean Lafitte, Louisiana, on Monday in preparation for Isaac. Hide Caption 136 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A St. Petersburg, Florida, resident walks along the sea wall at Spa Beach, where larger than average waves were being kicked up by Tropical Storm Isaac on Monday. Hide Caption 137 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Oliver Marti sweeps water from heavy rains generated by Tropical Storm Isaac off the roof of his flower shop on Monday in Tampa, Florida. Hide Caption 138 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Waves batter the coast in Havana, Cuba, on Sunday after Tropical Storm Isaac passed the island. Hide Caption 139 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Larry Hoffmeister, left, and Charles Carter place storm shutters on Carter's vacation home on Dauphin Island, Alabama, as they prepare for Isaac on Sunday. Hide Caption 140 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Justin and Kayla Franklin of Tennessee walk in wind and rain in downtown Key West as Tropical Storm Isaac moves over the island. Hide Caption 141 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Biloxi, Mississippi, resident Stephanie Dale fills out paperwork Sunday to have her dog microchipped at the Humane Society of South Mississippi, which opened its doors to provide an emergency microchip and tag clinic. Hide Caption 142 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Ocean Springs, Mississippi, resident Charles Bartlett fills several gas containers in preparation for Isaac. Hide Caption 143 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Andrew Marino, left, and Colby Collier pull a wagon filled with sandbags back to their homes as Florida residents prepared for Tropical Storm Isaac in St. Pete Beach, Florida, on Sunday. Hide Caption 144 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Palm trees blow in the wind in front of the Tampa Bay Times Forum, where the start of the Republican National Convention was pushed to Tuesday. Hide Caption 145 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Earl, right, and Terri Harris place sandbags around their home to prepare for possible flooding. Hide Caption 146 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – People venture out into the stormy weather as Tropical Storm Isaac passed by Marathon, Florida, on Sunday. Hide Caption 147 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A couple watch as waves and strong winds from Tropical Storm Isaac, which crossed Cuba on Sunday, batter the shore in Gibara, Cuba, on Saturday. Hide Caption 148 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Strong winds bend palm trees in Cuba's northern province of Sancti Spiritus on Saturday. Isaac is expected to strengthen and become a Category 1 hurricane by early Monday as it draws nearer to Florida. Hide Caption 149 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A man captures the effects of Tropical Storm Isaac in Gibara. Hide Caption 150 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – People watch from the shore as waves pound the coast in Gibara. Hide Caption 151 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Officials reported some storm surge and flooding in eastern Cuba. Hide Caption 152 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Tampa, Florida, area residents make preparations for the arrival of Tropical Storm Isaac by filling sandbags at a Hillsborough County Public Works Service Center on Saturday. Hide Caption 153 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A woman sits atop sandbags filled by Tampa area residents in preparation for the storm. Hide Caption 154 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – A Florida Keys resident boards up the windows of a store on Duval Street in Key West after a hurricane warning was issued ahead of Tropical Storm Isaac. Hide Caption 155 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Two men install storm shutters on Duval Street on Saturday. Hide Caption 156 of 157 Photos: Isaac's trail of destruction Isaac pounds Gulf Coast – Vehicles cross a bridge leaving the Lower Keys on Saturday as the storm strengthens and moves closer. Hide Caption 157 of 157At 6 a.m., there was 4 feet of water.By 7 a.m., her bedroom, an antique grand piano, a grandfather clock and a whole lot more were inundated by 9 feet of water."We were very prepared," said Duplantier, who had evacuated Monday with her children to New Orleans while her husband and parents stayed behind.The family was coping with the latest weather disaster in Plaquemines Parish, where dozens of people were rescued Wednesday and as many as 800 homes suffered significant water damage. The parish is just southeast of New Orleans.Quoting her 17-year-old son, Duplantier said, "Katrina took away the shock value."JUST WATCHED Man, 4 dogs rescued from flooded house Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man, 4 dogs rescued from flooded house 02:45JUST WATCHED Captivating pictures from Isaac Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Captivating pictures from Isaac 01:54JUST WATCHED Isaac flooding surrounds homes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Isaac flooding surrounds homes 02:05JUST WATCHED Father and son save lives in Louisiana Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Father and son save lives in Louisiana 03:40Plaquemines Parish, split into the East Bank and West Bank by the Mississippi River, appeared to be the epicenter of Isaac's wrath.The Duplantiers live on the East Bank. It was the back levee, one of two, that overtopped Wednesday.Officials were considering intentionally breaching the levee, a second line of flood defense, to allow some of the floodwater to flow back out of the inundated area, Gov. Bobby Jindal said.According to The Times-Picayune, the digging might begin Thursday. Garret Graves, chair of the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority, told the paper that the state had agreed to the plan to start digging as soon as conditions allow.Parish president Billy Nungesser said Wednesday evening that crews will travel to the area Thursday morning by air boat to study the situation."We have to wait for the water to be out enough to see the levee," he said.If the decision is made to cut the levee, it likely won't happen before Saturday, according to Nungesser.The receding water would flow back into the marsh and would not affect other communities, Nungesser said.Meanwhile, about 3,000 parish residents remained in one area close to an 8-foot tall West Bank levee that waters were threatening Wednesday evening, according to Jindal's office.A mandatory evacuation was ordered south of Belle Chasse because models show the water will reach 8 feet.The National Guard, meanwhile, evacuated 112 residents from the Riverbend nursing home in Belle Chasse, officials said.Nungesser said at least four levees were overtopped, creating a kind of flooding the parish did not see even during Hurricane Katrina, which hit seven years ago Wednesday."This storm kept pumping that water for days up against the levees," said Nungesser. "Something had to give."The waterlogged parish is asking for President Barack Obama to declare a local federal disaster, making it eligible for assistance. "That is going to be so needed," said Nungesser.More than 150 calls came in to 911 from people wanting to be rescued, said Terry Rutherford, commander of authorities in Plaquemines Parish, after the levee on the East Bank overtopped.By mid-morning, 75 people had been rescued from flooded homes and rooftops in Braithwaite, CNN affiliate WWL reported.The levee is maintained by the parish and has not been part of the federal hurricane protection levee system, according to officials. Katrina breached the levee in two places, the Army Corps of Engineers said.A mandatory evacuation was ordered at noon Monday on the East Bank."It's very unfortunate that people did not heed the warnings," said Sen. Mary Landrieu, adding, "our hearts go out" to them.The New Orleans levee system was rebuilt and reinforced at a cost of $14 billion after it failed when Katrina struck in 2005.Landrieu said she was among some officials who had pushed for Plaquemines Parish to be included in the federally funded projects, but the corps follows a formula "based on economic impact" that leaves out some rural or sparsely populated areas."It's heartbreaking to watch people climb out of their attics and onto their roofs in search of safety," she said. "Hurricane Isaac has reinforced for us once again just how vulnerable these critical areas are. We must re-engage the Corps of Engineers on this."However, Jindal said the levee has been under construction for about a year. Federal dollars have been appropriated for the levee since Katrina, according to a statement.According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the nonfederal levees are slated for improvements and incorporation into the federal system. A cost-share agreement was signed in June.Isaac "delivered more of a punch than originally thought," said Nungesser. "We have reports of people on their roofs, in attics, in 12 to 14 feet of water."Parish resident Gene Oddo told WWL that he was in his attic with his wife and 18-month-old baby girl."The water came up so quick, it looks like we lost everything," he said. He and his wife have drinking water, baby food and other necessities, he said.According to Jindal's office, vehicles and boats were assisting in rescues along the East Bank near Braithwaite. There were unconfirmed reports that up to 40 people still needed assistance.Kim Duplantier's mother took photos of the flooding in Braithwaite before she and Duplantier's father were evacuated by boat Wednesday afternoon.Duplantier's husband, a veterinarian, had a power generator and was staying Wednesday on the second floor of their home.In what must have been a rather surreal scene, at least one of the family's horses could be seen on a levee. Their goats were likely perched on it, too, Duplantier said.Nungesser said he couldn't get to his house, unlike the various animals that have taken refuge at the property.CNN iReporter Kayla Robin, who took photos of the Braithwaite flooding and rescue arrivals, said the experience was horrific."When they got in, you can tell they were in shock and weren't expecting this," she said.Robin, 20, lives in Caernarvon in St. Bernard Parish, right next to Braithwaite. She lives to the east of a floodgate that protected St. Bernard from the floodwaters.Robin said there was no water in her home, although there was calf-high water in the streets."It was traumatic going to the wall and seeing both sides at one time," said Robin of the contrasting situations. "Thankfully, we have everything -- but these people (on the other side) are reliving Katrina seven years later."