Editor's Note: Danny Kofke is a special education teacher and author of two books - "How To Survive (and perhaps thrive) On A Teacher's Salary" and "A Simple Book Of Financial Wisdom: Teach Yourself (and your kids) How To Live Wealthy With Little Money." If you are a parent, teacher or student who has a story to tell, email us at SchoolsofThought@cnn.comMy name is Danny Kofke and I am a special education teacher. This is my 12th year of teaching. I have taught pre-k, kindergarten, first grade and second grade. My wife, Tracy, was a first grade teacher for 10 years before becoming a stay-at-home to our two daughters, Ava, age 7, and Ella, 4. This September, after being home for 7 years, Tracy went back to work teaching Ella's 4 year-old pre-k class.I knew I wanted to be a teacher after having Mr. Stutzke in 9th grade Civics class. He was an amazing educator and inspired me in so many ways. Upon entering college and declaring my major (elementary education) I heard from many about how I would not make any money and would probably be broke my entire life. I realized at that point that I still wanted to be a teacher even though the pay was not as high as some other professions. The basic fact is that if you spend more than you earn, you'll eventually be in trouble. It doesn't matter if you make $10,000, $100,000 or even $1,000,000 a year, the same principle applies.Clearly, having money can take away many worries, but it doesn't automatically guarantee happiness.Think about some of your peers. Do any of them make a lot of money but have nothing to show for it? There might be some who press the snooze button numerous times on Monday morning because they dread going to work. Even if you make $500,000 a year, if you are unhappy Monday through Friday, I don't feel you are "wealthy." Many of these same people spend money and buy things to make themselves "happy." Once the weekend rolls around, they can come up with some great reasons to buy things. "I work so hard and put up with so much I deserve_________." Fill in this blank with clothes, jewelry, eating out, and so on. So many people do this in search of happiness.Read More