Story highlights An attorney for the driver says the crash was the result of vehicle malfunctionNo charges have been filed in the crashThe driver of a U-Haul lost control and ran into 3 women, killing 1The cargo hold of the truck contained beer kegs, police sayThe driver of a U-Haul truck that struck and killed a woman and injured two others outside Yale University's football stadium Saturday passed a field sobriety test issued after the accident, New Haven, Connecticut, police said Sunday.No charges have been filed in the crash, which remains under investigation, police said.The driver of the truck, identified by police as Brendan J. Ross, was making a left turn into Lot D of Yale Bowl's main parking area where tailgaters were gathered ahead of Yale's game against Harvard. Ross is a junior at Yale, according to the Yale Daily News."As the truck turned, it accelerated and struck three pedestrians before colliding with two parked box trucks," police said in a statement. "The parked trucks were enough to stop the vehicle from proceeding any further."Police noted that the cargo hold of the U-Haul truck contained several beer kegs.An attorney for Ross blamed the crash on vehicle malfunction, according to CNN affiliate WTNH in New Haven. Attorney William Dow did not return a CNN phone call requesting comment Sunday night. Police said the truck and its mechanics are undergoing forensic examinations.Nancy Barry, 30, of Salem, Massachusetts, was killed in the crash. Sarah Short, 31, of New Haven, was in serious but stable condition at Yale-New Haven hospital. A third woman, Elizabeth Dernbach, 23, of Florida, was treated for minor injuries.In a statement Saturday, Yale said the deceased woman was not one of its students and was not believed to be affiliated with Harvard. The woman in stable condition does attend Yale.The university said Saturday it would perform a full review of policies relating to tailgating before athletics events."Yale extends our sympathies and prayers to the family of the woman who was killed and hopes for the speedy recovery of the two women hurt," the university said. "Our thoughts are also with those who witnessed or were affected by this tragic accident."A moment of silence was held during the Yale-Harvard football game at the beginning of halftime, according to the Yale Daily News, the college newspaper.