Story highlights No incidents and additional arrests are reported overnight, authorities sayOver 200 people were arrested in New York on Thursday, according to policeFifty more were arrested in Los Angeles incidents, an officer saysAuthorities don't expect delays on subways, buses and tunnels Friday, a day after Occupy Wall Street demonstrators converged on New York City to mark a nationwide "mass day of action."No incidents and additional arrests were reported overnight, authorities said.Scores were arrested Thursday and several police officers were reported injured as protesters fanned out across the city moved toward Foley Square in Lower Manhattan and the Brooklyn Bridge.Many had crossed the bridge -- the same place where more than 700 had been arrested last month -- chanting, "This is what democracy looks like -- This is what America looks like," according to the New York movement's official Twitter feed.This time, they marched in the pedestrian walkway and did not block the roadway.JUST WATCHED King: 'Occupy' protesters make no sense Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH King: 'Occupy' protesters make no sense 03:07JUST WATCHED Occupier seen bleeding from head Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Occupier seen bleeding from head 00:50JUST WATCHED Ventura says don't vote Dem or GOP Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ventura says don't vote Dem or GOP 01:42Occupy protesters also took to the streets in all corners of the nation -- from Miami to Los Angeles to Portland, Oregon and Boston -- marking two months since the activist effort aimed at the nation's wealthiest 1% began in Manhattan."I think the numbers have increased dramatically," New York protester Jo Robin said Thursday. "Particularly after the raid, our message is being broadcast all over the world."Police said a total of 245 people had been arrested around the city Thursday.Police Commissioner Ray Kelly said at least seven police officers were hurt Thursday during exchanges with protesters.Five of those officers were injured when a unidentified liquid was thrown on their faces, Kelly said, adding that they experienced a burning sensation and required hospitalization.It is not clear how many demonstrators have been injured during the clashes.Authorities constructed barricades at Zuccotti Park in front of the New York Stock Exchange and along Fifth Avenue in an apparent attempt to keep demonstrators off the roads and on pedestrian walkways.Residents and workers near the New York Stock Exchange were required to flash identification cards as police cordoned off the area amid concerns that demonstrators would try to disrupt trading.Earlier Thursday, protesters lifted metal barricades around Zuccotti Park, a former home-base for the movement, defying authorities and blocking traffic.JUST WATCHED Explain it to me: The Occupy movement Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Explain it to me: The Occupy movement 02:36JUST WATCHED New York 'Day of Action' clashes heat up Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New York 'Day of Action' clashes heat up 06:01Photos: Photos: Zuccotti Park protesters evicted Photos: Photos: Zuccotti Park protesters evicted Police evict Zuccotti Park protesters – Police moved in to New York's Zuccotti Park early Tuesday, November 15, surprising many Occupy Wall Street protesters who had camped there for almost two months. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Photos: Zuccotti Park protesters evicted Police evict Zuccotti Park protesters – Continuing concerns about public health and safety and the impact of the protests on nearby businesses, as well as the rights of others to use the park, prompted city officials to dismantle the camp, Mayor Michael Bloomberg said. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Photos: Zuccotti Park protesters evicted Police evict Zuccotti Park protesters – Police arrested more than 100 people, according to Deputy Police Commissioner Paul Browne. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Photos: Zuccotti Park protesters evicted Police evict Zuccotti Park protesters – An arrested protester screams from a police van Tuesday. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Photos: Zuccotti Park protesters evicted Police evict Zuccotti Park protesters – After they were forced to leave the park, several hundred protesters marched to Foley Square. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Photos: Zuccotti Park protesters evicted Police evict Zuccotti Park protesters – Workers clean up Zuccotti Park on Tuesday after protesters were removed. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Photos: Zuccotti Park protesters evicted Police evict Zuccotti Park protesters – Circumstances at the park had become "unbearable," Bloomberg said. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Photos: Zuccotti Park protesters evicted Police evict Zuccotti Park protesters – Protesters regroup in Foley Square on Tuesday morning. Hide Caption 8 of 8Bloomberg said the day's protests had "caused minimal disruptions to our city," but added that some demonstrators had "deliberately" pursued violence.The Occupy movement showed no signs of abating elsewhere in the United States.In cities such as St. Louis and Milwaukee, thousands responded to the "day of action" plea.In Los Angeles, about 50 people were arrested Thursday, authorities said. In Portland, police reported 48 people arrested in three separate incidents. Another 21 were issued citations for blocking a street in Las Vegas, local police said.And in Atlanta, police arrested eight for blocking a roadway. There were also arrests in other places, including Chicago and Houston.