(CNN) When a rocket contracted by NASA burst into flames seconds after liftoff , its supplies for the International Space Station disappeared in an orange fireball.The explosion also swallowed several experiments, many of them from schools.The bad news: Everything in the rocket is gone.The good news: There are no deaths or injuries.The payload fairing goes onto the spacecraft. Orbital will lead the investigation of the accident, along with the FAA, with NASA assisting. Among other things, they'll try to collect and examine any debris that can be recovered, review data from the spacecraft before its destruction and look at videos around the launch time.Unmanned rocket explodes – The payload fairing goes onto the spacecraft. Orbital will lead the investigation of the accident, along with the FAA, with NASA assisting. Among other things, they'll try to collect and examine any debris that can be recovered, review data from the spacecraft before its destruction and look at videos around the launch time.The Orb-3 mission's payload fairing (essentially the casing around the spacecraft) was installed on the Antares on October 23.Unmanned rocket explodes – The Orb-3 mission's payload fairing (essentially the casing around the spacecraft) was installed on the Antares on October 23.The Antares rocket, with the Cygnus spacecraft on board, is seen on Launch Pad-0A after the launch attempt was scrubbed on October 27.Unmanned rocket explodes – The Antares rocket, with the Cygnus spacecraft on board, is seen on Launch Pad-0A after the launch attempt was scrubbed on October 27.The rocket had been set to go up Monday, only to be scrubbed "because of a boat downrange in the trajectory Antares would have flown had it lifted off," according to NASA. Coast Guard spokesman David Weydert said the boat that triggered the postponement was 40 miles offshore. Tuesday, by contrast, seemed perfect. Just before liftoff, NASA reported "100% favorable" weather and "no technical concerns with the rocket or spacecraft being worked."Unmanned rocket explodes – The rocket had been set to go up Monday, only to be scrubbed "because of a boat downrange in the trajectory Antares would have flown had it lifted off," according to NASA. Coast Guard spokesman David Weydert said the boat that triggered the postponement was 40 miles offshore. Tuesday, by contrast, seemed perfect. Just before liftoff, NASA reported "100% favorable" weather and "no technical concerns with the rocket or spacecraft being worked."The rocket and spacecraft -- which together cost more than $200 million, according to Frank Culbertson, the general manager of Orbital's Advanced Programs Group -- are gone.Unmanned rocket explodes – The rocket and spacecraft -- which together cost more than $200 million, according to Frank Culbertson, the general manager of Orbital's Advanced Programs Group -- are gone.People who came to Wallops Island to watch the launch walk away after the unmanned rocket, owned by Orbital Sciences Corp., exploded.Unmanned rocket explodes – People who came to Wallops Island to watch the launch walk away after the unmanned rocket, owned by Orbital Sciences Corp., exploded.An aerial view shows damage to the Wallops Island, Virginia, launch facility following the rocket's explosion.Unmanned rocket explodes – An aerial view shows damage to the Wallops Island, Virginia, launch facility following the rocket's explosion.On what was to be a resupply mission to the International Space Station, an unmanned NASA-contracted rocket exploded seconds after launch Tuesday, October 28, on the coast of Virginia. The launchpad was damaged, but no one was injured.What happened?The unmanned rocket exploded in midair Tuesday with loud booms echoing along the eastern Virginia coast.The Antares rocket by contractor Orbital Sciences launched at 6:22 p.m. ET from a facility along the Atlantic Ocean. It had about 5,000 pounds of supplies and experiments.What was it carrying?The rocket was carrying various things, including spacewalk tools for the space station, flight equipment, food, books and computer resources for the crew.Its total cargo was 4,883 pounds (2215 kilograms)."It's not as tragic as losing a life associated with it and so, we're very happy to report that there were no injuries," said Frank Culbertson, an executive vice president at Orbital Sciences Corp. " That hardware, however, it's very important and very high value to the company and to our customers."JUST WATCHED Official: Rocket explosion tragic but ... Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Official: Rocket explosion tragic but ... 01:09What kind of experiments were on board?The experiments varied widely, from student research to complicated medical studies.Some of the research highlights for the mission included:-- Experiments on pea shoot growth in space conducted by the Duchesne Academy of the Sacred Heart in Houston. Pea shoots have high vitamin and mineral content, making them a good food choice for long-duration space missions.-- Drain brain health study, which examines blood flow to help advance treatment for neurological problems faced by space station crew members.-- The meteor study, which analyzes video and images of the atmosphere to provide insight on meteoroid dust and development of planets.--Re-entry breakup recorder, which uses sensors to record data during reentry. That data are used to determine reentry hazards.What happens next?Officials from NASA and Orbital hope to find out in the coming days."What we know so far is pretty much what everybody saw on the video," Culbertson said. "The ascent stopped, there was some, let's say disassembly, of the first stage, and then it fell to Earth. ... We don't really have any early indications of exactly what might have failed, and we need some time to look at that."Where will the crew get supplies from?The crew aboard the station is not lacking when it comes to supplies.JUST WATCHED See how NASA rockets are made Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See how NASA rockets are made 02:57"We have plenty of supplies onboard of the space station," said Mike Suffredini, program manager for NASA's International Space Station."The crew has all the food, water and other consumables necessary to support them well into next year. I think if no other vehicle showed up, we can go all the way into the March time frame."If Orbital can't resupply the space station, others can. On Wednesday, a Russian Soyuz resupply spacecraft stocked with cargo and crew supplies launched from Kazakhstan. SpaceX, another private company, plans its fifth mission in December, including more supplies and a laser instrument to measure pollution, dust and other aspects of the atmosphere, according to NASAJUST WATCHED Raw video of unmanned rocket explosion Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Raw video of unmanned rocket explosion 01:05What happens to the debris?Stay away and do not touch, authorities warn.As officials launch an investigation into the explosion, they are warning curious onlookers to stay away from the accident site and avoid any desire to collect souvenirs."The investigation will include evaluating the debris that we will find around the launch pad and everything associated with that," Culbertson said."I do want to caution the public ... this is an accident site and it's a rocket and it had a lot of hazardous materials on board that people should not be looking for or wanting to collect souvenirs over. If you find anything that washes ashore in the local area or came down in your farm or in your yard, please make sure that you will call .... local authorities."Orbital will lead the investigation, along with the Federal Aviation Administration, with NASA assisting.JUST WATCHED Mark Kelly: This is a 'risky business' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mark Kelly: This is a 'risky business' 01:34Will the crash delay future flights?It seems the pad is out of commission -- for now."This is only pad certified for launching the Antares rocket," Culbertson said. " So, repairing it will be one of the highest priorities. We'll work very closely with the state of Virginia, with NASA to make sure that is done as quickly and as safely as possible."