Story highlights The pilot is identified as Geoffrey "Craig" Hunt, 62Authorities lost contact with an air tanker while it is fighting a blaze in YosemiteInvestigators from the FAA, NTSB should arrive on site Wednesday60 homes have been evacuated due to the blaze, according to Yosemite spokesmanThe pilot of an air tanker battling a wildfire at Yosemite National Park died after the tanker crashed, Cal Fire said.The tanker was being used to help battle Dog Rock Fire when authorities lost contact with its pilot Tuesday afternoon, Cal Fire spokesman Daniel Berlant said in a statement.Federal Aviation Administration spokesman Ian Gregor said the plane -- which had only one pilot on board -- went down near an entrance to the park.On Wednesday, officials identified the pilot as Geoffrey "Craig" Hunt, 62."We continue to mourn the tragic loss of Craig," said Chief Ken Pimlott, Cal Fire director. "We know wildland firefighting is an inherently dangerous job, but Craig made the ultimate sacrifice."Video from CNN affiliate KCRA showed smoke and flames rising from what appeared to be a tree-lined ridge in a remote valley. A helicopter could be seen dropping what appeared to be water on the blaze before flying from the scene.The tanker that crashed was an S-2T, one of several aircraft that Cal Fire deploys to battle wildfires.Photos: Wildfires in California Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighter hoses down hot spots during a controlled burn to fight the King Fire near Placerville, California, on Monday, September 22. The King Fire is one of 10 wildfires raging across California. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighter walks along the containment line during a controlled burn near Placerville on September 22. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A sign stands half-burned by the King Fire in White Meadows, California, on Saturday, September 20. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A U.S. Forest Service firefighter pours water on burning embers while clearing hot spots of the King Fire near Georgetown, California, on Thursday, September 18. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – Firefighters use a drip torch to burn away excess dry brush during controlled fire operations near Pollock Pines, California, on September 18. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighter waters down a tree as flames approach a containment line near Fresh Pond, California, on September 18. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighter walks through smoke in Fresh Pond on Wednesday, September 17. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighting helicopter collects water from a reservoir in Pollock Pines on September 17. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighter is shrouded in smoke near Fresh Pond on September 17. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – Firefighters monitor a backfire as they battle the King Fire in Fresh Pond on September 17. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighter monitors a backfire in Fresh Pond on September 17. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A grove of trees sits burned in Weed, California, on Tuesday, September 16. The Boles Fire tore into Weed, razing libraries, fitness centers and entire neighborhood blocks, according to CNN affiliate KDRV. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – Shelley Besk, right, embraces her mother, Kathy, as they stand in the ruins of their Weed home on September 16. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – Firefighters inspect the interior of the Roseburg lumber mill in Weed on September 16. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – The shell of a library in Weed smolders on September 16. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A resident of Weed carries belongings as he walks by burned-out homes on September 16. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – Firefighters hose down a hot spot September 16 in the rubble of a Weed home. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – Destroyed vehicles and homes smolder in Weed on Monday, September 15. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A wildfire approaches the shore of California's Bass Lake on Sunday, September 14. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – An airplane drops fire retardant over a fire at Bass Lake on September 14. Hide Caption 20 of 20According to Cal Fire , it bought 26 such planes from the U.S. Department of Defense in 1996 and fitted them "with modern, powerful turboprop engines" that made them "faster, safer, and more maneuverable."All but a few of those planes, equipped with a payload of retardant to drop on flames, are now being used statewide.The aircraft went down "under unknown circumstances," said Gregor, the FAA spokesman.The Dog Rock Fire was reported around 2:45 p.m. (5:45 p.m. ET) Tuesday between the park boundary and the Arch Rock entrance station.The blaze has already prompted the evacuation of 60 homes, most of them vacation rentals, in the park's Foresta area, according to Cobb.