Story highlights Jaylen Fryberg shot 5, killing 1, at his Washington high school before killing himselfFellow students express surprise, describing him as a well-liked and good personHe was suspended after a fight, after "racist" words were directed at him, student says"I would have never expected it would have been him," another classmate saysOne week ago, Jaylen Fryberg stood tall as part of his high school's homecoming court, spurring his fellow students to cheer.On Friday, he brought them to tears.There's a jarring disparity between the celebratory scene on the sidelines of Marysville-Pilchuck High School's football field and the horrific, later one inside the Washington state school's cafeteria. Fryberg was center of attention both times: first as one of his school's most popular students, then as a student who eyewitnesses said shot his peers, killing one of them, before turning his gun on himself.As classmate Jordan Luton, among others, said: "Nobody would have expected it from him."Fryberg was named his freshman class's homecoming prince a week before the shooting.Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Students from Marysville-Pilchuck High School write messages and prayers during a vigil Friday, October 24, at a church in Marysville, Washington. Earlier in the day, a student shot five people at the school before he committed suicide, law enforcement officials told CNN. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Community members and students gather for the vigil. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – People embrace at the church where students were taken to be reunited with parents. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Parents crowd around buses as students arrive at the church. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – A woman waits on a curb at the church. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – People hug after arriving at the church. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – A girl is consoled at the church after the shooting. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Police monitor the school's athletic fields after the shooting. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Emergency personnel respond to the school after the shooting. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Authorities "are confident that there is only one single shooter," Marysville police spokesman Robert Lamoureux told reporters. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Students walk across a field after reports of shots being fired at the school. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Authorities first learned about the shooting after getting a 911 phone call around 10:30 a.m. (1:30 p.m. ET) from someone inside the school, Lamoureux said. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – A student locked down inside a classroom told CNN by phone that the shooting began in the cafeteria. Hide Caption 13 of 13JUST WATCHED Witness: He was perfectly fine yesterday Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Witness: He was perfectly fine yesterday 02:42JUST WATCHED Father: It's 'worst feeling in the world' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Father: It's 'worst feeling in the world' 08:59JUST WATCHED Shooting: Why a popular kid would do this Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shooting: Why a popular kid would do this 04:58For some, high school can be a hard place to be widely embraced. But not for Fryberg, according to students there.The scene at halftime of Marysville-Pilchuck High School's October 17 football game with Arlington High School is testament.There stood Fryberg, looking dapper in a tie, vest and sneakers, with his long hair tied up tightly. A schoolmate noted Fryberg played football and planned to try out soon for wrestling; then people in the stands applauded him, with enthusiastic whistles and yells of admiration thrown in for good measure.The occasion was Fryberg being named the freshmen's "Homecoming Prince," joining others in Marysville-Pilchuck High School's royal court. Friend and fellow student Nate Heckendorf explained that this honor means "a lot of people had good hopes for him and thought the best of him.""That (title) means ... teachers like you. Your peers like you," said Rachel Heichel, another freshman. "You're a person that everyone likes and a good person."All those applied to Fryberg, according to Heichel."He was a people person," she said. "... He was just a really nice kid and all-around good person."An avid outdoorsmanFryberg was more than a beloved student or talented athlete.He was a proud Native American. According to his social media accounts, he belonged to the Tulalip tribe, which runs a resort casino in Marysville, a city of 60,000 located 30 miles north of Seattle.A fellow tribe member and local CrossFit coach told CNN affiliate KIRO that the teenager was not only "very nice," but ambitious -- such that he might have one day become a tribal leader.Fryberg was an avid outdoorsman who liked to go hunting and had guns. Just three months ago, he posted a picture to Instagram of himself holding a rifle, along with the words: "Probably the best BirthDay present ever! I just love my parents!!!"Schoolmates and his social media accounts suggest that all was not happy with Fryberg, especially soon before the shooting.Luton said that, a few weeks ago, Fryberg got into a fight with someone who "said something racist to him."Heckendorf elaborated "there was bullying involved and a couple words said towards him that he obviously didn't like," noting that Fryberg got suspended after the fight. A federal law enforcement source also said he'd been suspended.That's not to say, as Heckendorf and others stressed, that this altercation necessarily had anything to do with what happened Friday. Police have not formally identified the attacker.JUST WATCHED Witnesses: Shooter was Jaylen Fryberg Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Witnesses: Shooter was Jaylen Fryberg 01:01JUST WATCHED Witness: He shot them in their backs Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Witness: He shot them in their backs 02:06JUST WATCHED Shooter's friend: It came out of nowhere Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shooter's friend: It came out of nowhere 01:43JUST WATCHED Student: There was blood everywhere Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Student: There was blood everywhere 01:11Looking to social media for possible cluesOther potential clues might lie in Fryberg's Twitter feed, which hints at a breakup with a girlfriend in recent months. It also includes a post from Tuesday saying, "It breaks me... It actually does... I know it seems like I'm sweating it off... But I'm not.. And I never will be able to."His final Tweet, on Thursday, was much shorter: "It won't last.... It'll never last...."That same day, Luton said he talked to Fryberg at football practice "and he was all fine."And Heckendorf chatted with him even more recently, on Friday morning, asking Fryberg how he was doing and offering him his ear whenever needed."And he said, 'OK, thank you,'" Heckendorf said. "We did a little handshake, and he was off. He looked pretty content with life."All these impressions, all these interactions made what happened later that morning in Marysville-Pilchuck High School cafeteria more shocking.Heichel was there when Fryberg apparently went up to a spot a few tables away and fired his gun. When she heard more shots, she turned around and "saw him standing there ... the gun in his hand.""When I saw him, I was like, 'Oh my God, that's Jaylen,'" she said. "I would have never expected it would have been him, out of all people."It was really heartbreaking for me to see that."