Story highlights Business owner says thieves have hit the abandoned homes of people he knowsLava is within 70 yards of the closest home, but flow has slowedCar rental owner worries this could be "huge disaster" for a small townThere is a glow at night and smoke in the airThreatened by lava flows, many residents in the Hawaiian village of Pahoa have fled, leaving behind homes that one business owner says are being targeted by looters."Crime is starting to pick up because a lot of people abandoned their houses. Two of my brother-in-laws' houses got ripped off," said Matt Purvis, owner of the Tin Shack Bakery, on Monday on the Big Island.Purvis said the thieves are driving around during the day and breaking into homes, sometimes more than once.Lava from Kilauea Volcano was about 70 yards from the closest home, the Hawaii County Civil Defense Agency said in its afternoon advisory Monday. The flow is moving about five yards per hour and had slowed down Monday afternoon.Smoke could be a problem for people downwind, the agency said, while advising residents to stay inside.JUST WATCHED Lava flow threatens Hawaiian town Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lava flow threatens Hawaiian town 01:53Photos: Recently active volcanoes Photos: Recently active volcanoes This May 8 file photo of the Bogoslof volcano in Alaska's Aleutian islands shows a crater now filled by a warm saltwater lake. The volcano erupted on Bogoslof Island on Sunday, May 28, producing an ash cloud that reached up to 45,000 feet, according to the Alaska Volcano Observatory. Hide Caption 1 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Villagers look on as Mount Sinabung volcano spews thick volcanic ash in Karo, Indonesia, on Friday, May 19. Hide Caption 2 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Turrialba volcano spews smoke and ash in May 2016 in Cartago, Costa Rica. Experts say it is the strongest eruption from the volcano in the past six years. Hide Caption 3 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Pavlof volcano erupts on Alaska's remote Aleutian Island archipelago in March 2016. Hide Caption 4 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Ecuadorian volcano Tungurahua spews lava and ash in Cahuaji, about 80 miles south of Quito, in February 2016. Authorities raised the alert level from yellow to orange after the volcano increased its activity and projected a column of ash 3 miles high. Hide Caption 5 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Soputan volcano spews lava and ash during an eruption on Indonesia's Sulawesi island in January 2016. Hide Caption 6 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Momotombo volcano erupts just before daybreak in Leon, Nicaragua, on December 4, 2015. The volcano had been quiet for many years. Hide Caption 7 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Smoke rises over the Italian city of Taormina during an eruption of Mount Etna, one of the most active volcanoes in the world, in December 2015. Hide Caption 8 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Cotopaxi, a volcano in Ecuador, sends large gray puffs of ash into the sky on August 14, 2015. Officials declared a yellow alert , the lowest level. Hide Caption 9 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Thick ash, rock fragments and volcanic gases pour from Mount Sinabung in Indonesia. The government's natural disaster management agency raised the alert level on June 5, 2015. Hide Caption 10 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Mount Shindake spews ash on Kuchinoerabu Island in Yakushima, Japan, in May 2015. The volcano erupted shortly before 10 a.m. local time , the Japan Meteorological Agency said. Hide Caption 11 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Wolf volcano at Isabela Island -- the largest of the Galapagos Islands west of mainland Ecuador -- erupts May 25, 2015 for the first time in 33 years. Hide Caption 12 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Calbuco volcano erupts near Puerto Varas, Chile, in April 2015. Hide Caption 13 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Smoke rises from the Turrialba volcano in Turrialba, Costa Rica, in March 2015. Eruptions of ash and stones prompted authorities to evacuate residential areas. Hide Caption 14 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Fuego volcano spews a cloud of ash west of Guatemala City, Guatemala, in March 2015. Hide Caption 15 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Villarrica, a Chilean volcano, began erupting in March 2015. The volcano is one of Chile's most active. Hide Caption 16 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Lava flows from the Kilauea volcano in Pahoa, Hawaii, in October 2014. The flow picked up speed, prompting emergency officials to close part of the main road through town and tell residents to be prepared to evacuate. Hide Caption 17 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Japan's Mount Sakurajima erupts in September 2014. It was the second volcano in two days to erupt in Japan. Hide Caption 18 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Dense white plumes rise high in the air as Mount Ontake erupts in central Japan in September 2014. Hide Caption 19 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Mount Slamet spews lava and gas during an eruption in Brebes, Indonesia, in September 2014. Hide Caption 20 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Fountains of lava spurt from a fissure in the ground on the north side of the Bardarbunga volcano in Iceland in September 2014. Hide Caption 21 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Mount Tavurvur erupts in Papua New Guinea in August 2014, forcing local communities to evacuate. Hide Caption 22 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Karymsky volcano erupts in Kamchatka, Russia, in January 2013. Hide Caption 23 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Copahue volcano emits smoke and ash above Caviahue, in Argentina's Neuquen province, in December 2012. Hide Caption 24 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Western Mexico's Colima volcano emits lava in October 2004. The Global Volcanism Program reported "a bright thermal anomaly" as well as gas emission in November 2013. Hide Caption 25 of 25"We can see the smoke and kind of a glow, especially at night," Purvis said.After the lava flow engulfed the Pahoa cemetery, anxious residents prayed it did not kill off the small town."A lot of us are loading up on gas, getting generators in case the energy goes out," Mike Hale told CNN. "And we're checking to make sure the Internet stays up."Hale owns Big Island Auto rentals in Pahoa, which has almost 950 residents.With the lava consuming fields and flowing over fences, Hale took a precaution and moved 20 rental vehicles to Hilo."I'm just leaving a couple of (all-terrain vehicles) down on the side of my business. In case we're cut off," he said. "And if we are cut off, it will be a huge disaster."The Bay Clinic was also taking extra steps, preparing a mobile medical unit to stage on the opposite side of the lava flow."We have not determined exactly where the mobile unit will go," said Harold Wallace, CEO of Bay Clinic. "It's going to be based on where the flow ends up, logistics, traffic and we'll talk to civil defense.""If for some reason someone can't get to our clinic, we will be there with the mobile unit," he added. There's going to be people who need prescriptions and more."Video shot by Hawaii County and provided to CNN by affiliate KHNL showed fires burning at the edge of the lava flow, consuming fields.The civil defense agency said it sent workers door-to-door in the community on Sunday, informing them of the possible need to get out should conditions become too dangerous.But most had already left, according to CNN affiliate KHON"Most people have vacated. They have moved out of their homes. There's only a few people left," the station quoted Hawaii County Civil Defense worker Franchesca Martin-Howe as saying.The Hawaiian Volcano Observatory said Kilauea was still erupting at its summit and on the eastern side of the volcano."The whole town is really concerned and is nervous, and I am too. It's definitely concerning and the biggest is the unknown," Purvis said.