Story highlights Brittany Maynard has brain cancer.She plans to take her lifeMaynard said she wanted to visit the Grand Canyon before her deathShe's become a leading figure in the assisted suicide movementBrittany Maynard, the terminally ill woman who plans to take her own life, has checked the last item off her bucket list.She visited the Grand Canyon last week."The Canyon was breathtakingly beautiful," she wrote on her website , "and I was able to enjoy my time with the two things I love most: my family and nature."Photos: Brittany Maynard's journey Photos: Brittany Maynard's journey Brittany Maynard's journey – Brittany Maynard with her dog Charley in San Francisco. Maynard, a 29-year-old with terminal brain cancer, has died, advocacy group Compassion and Choices said in a Facebook post on Sunday. Click through to see more photos of Maynard's life. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Brittany Maynard's journey Brittany Maynard's journey – Maynard, second from right, visits the Grand Canyon with her family in October. She had said the Grand Canyon was the last item on her bucket list. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Brittany Maynard's journey Brittany Maynard's journey – Maynard at age 4 with her mom, Debbie. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Brittany Maynard's journey Brittany Maynard's journey – Maynard with her mom during a trip. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Brittany Maynard's journey Brittany Maynard's journey – Maynard, right, poses for a photo during her travels. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Brittany Maynard's journey Brittany Maynard's journey – Maynard and her husband, Dan Diaz, on their wedding day. They had been married a little more than a year when she was diagnosed with brain cancer. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Brittany Maynard's journey Brittany Maynard's journey – Maynard shares a moment with her bridesmaids on her wedding day. Hide Caption 7 of 7JUST WATCHED Brittany Maynard: I don't want to die Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Brittany Maynard: I don't want to die 01:37Photos showed her and her husband standing on the edge of the canyon, hugging and kissing.But her cancer reasserted itself."Severe headaches and neck pain are never far away, and unfortunately the next morning I had my worst seizure thus far," she wrote on her website. "My speech was paralyzed for quite a while after I regained consciousness, and the feeling of fatigue continued for the rest of the day."Maynard, 29, had been married a year when she discovered she had an aggressive brain cancer.Last April, doctors said she had six months to live. She considered dying in a hospice, she wrote in an op-ed piece for CNN."I quickly decided that death with dignity was the best option for me and my family," she wrote for CNN . "We had to uproot from California to Oregon, because Oregon is one of only five states where death with dignity is authorized."Maynard posted YouTube videos in which she and family members talked about her decision and supported an expansion of assisted suicide laws. She supports an organization, Compassion and Choices, to promote that idea."My dream is that every terminally ill American has access to the choice to die on their own terms with dignity," she wrote on her website.