Story highlights Front of lava flow doesn't budge, "but there's lots of activity behind it," official saysHe says residents ready to evacuate are "very upset, distraught, frustrated"A geologist says "the flow is still active;" things could change at any momentThe lava flow on Hawaii's Big Island began in June; houses and roads are threatenedThe lava flow has slowed, if not stalled altogether.Still, authorities warned Thursday that the threat to eastern Hawaii residents -- much like the oozing, simmering, destructive lava itself -- hasn't gone away.Darryl Oliveira, the director of the Hawaii County Civil Defense, told reporters that "there's been no movement forward" at the front of the destructive lava stream between Wednesday and Thursday."But there's lots of activity behind it," Oliveira said. "... There are breakouts along the margins that we'll have to watch and be wary of."The lava began moving toward the area of Pahoa, on Hawaii's Big Island, in June, when a volcanic crater vented and released the river of liquid rock.JUST WATCHED Chasing the lava in Hawaii Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chasing the lava in Hawaii 01:10Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Lava flows near a residential structure in Pahoa, Hawaii, on Monday, November 10. The lava flow from the Kilauea Volcano is advancing on the community of about 950 people on Hawaii's Big Island and claimed its first home in the town, which has been watching the slow-moving flow approach for months. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Lava burns near the town of Pahoa on Sunday, November 9. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Lava flows over a fence marking a property line near the town of Pahoa on Friday, October 31. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Lava burns vegetation as it approaches a property boundary early on the morning of Tuesday, October 28. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Pictured here on Tuesday morning, October 28, lava had crossed into two privately owned properties. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Smoke rises near Apa'a Street and Pahoa Village Road in Pahoa, Hawaii, on Monday, October 27. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – The horizontal incandescent cracks seen in the center and right portions of the photo, taken October 25, indicate that the flow was inflating: Fed by a continuing supply of lava beneath the cooling crust, the surface slowly rises. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Hawaiian Volcano Observatory geologists walk over the surface of the flow to track surface breakouts along a portion of the flow margin, about a kilometer (0.6 miles) up the slope from the flow front, on October 24. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Another view of the leading tip of the flow as it moves into the open pasture on October 24. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Pu'u O'o Crater, in the eastern rift zone of Kilauea, remains filled with thick fumes, but recent views with the naked eye and thermal camera confirm that little change has occurred in the crater over recent weeks. The fumes mask a handful of small, glowing openings on the crater floor. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – A closer view of surface activity on September 15. "A lot of smoke (is) coming off the front, a lot of cracking noises, methane explosions are going on," said Tim Orr of the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). "So, it's a noisy situation out there just from all the burning vegetation." Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – A view of the sinuous, channelized flow that was moving to the northeast from Kilauea on June 27. The flow threatening Pahoa has advanced about 13 miles (21 kilometers) since then. Kilauea is one of the world's most active volcanoes. Hide Caption 12 of 12JUST WATCHED Up close as lava inches towards homes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Up close as lava inches towards homes 01:30Photos: Recently active volcanoes Photos: Recently active volcanoes This May 8 file photo of the Bogoslof volcano in Alaska's Aleutian islands shows a crater now filled by a warm saltwater lake. The volcano erupted on Bogoslof Island on Sunday, May 28, producing an ash cloud that reached up to 45,000 feet, according to the Alaska Volcano Observatory. Hide Caption 1 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Villagers look on as Mount Sinabung volcano spews thick volcanic ash in Karo, Indonesia, on Friday, May 19. Hide Caption 2 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Turrialba volcano spews smoke and ash in May 2016 in Cartago, Costa Rica. Experts say it is the strongest eruption from the volcano in the past six years. Hide Caption 3 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Pavlof volcano erupts on Alaska's remote Aleutian Island archipelago in March 2016. Hide Caption 4 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Ecuadorian volcano Tungurahua spews lava and ash in Cahuaji, about 80 miles south of Quito, in February 2016. Authorities raised the alert level from yellow to orange after the volcano increased its activity and projected a column of ash 3 miles high. Hide Caption 5 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Soputan volcano spews lava and ash during an eruption on Indonesia's Sulawesi island in January 2016. Hide Caption 6 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Momotombo volcano erupts just before daybreak in Leon, Nicaragua, on December 4, 2015. The volcano had been quiet for many years. Hide Caption 7 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Smoke rises over the Italian city of Taormina during an eruption of Mount Etna, one of the most active volcanoes in the world, in December 2015. Hide Caption 8 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Cotopaxi, a volcano in Ecuador, sends large gray puffs of ash into the sky on August 14, 2015. Officials declared a yellow alert , the lowest level. Hide Caption 9 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Thick ash, rock fragments and volcanic gases pour from Mount Sinabung in Indonesia. The government's natural disaster management agency raised the alert level on June 5, 2015. Hide Caption 10 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Mount Shindake spews ash on Kuchinoerabu Island in Yakushima, Japan, in May 2015. The volcano erupted shortly before 10 a.m. local time , the Japan Meteorological Agency said. Hide Caption 11 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Wolf volcano at Isabela Island -- the largest of the Galapagos Islands west of mainland Ecuador -- erupts May 25, 2015 for the first time in 33 years. Hide Caption 12 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Calbuco volcano erupts near Puerto Varas, Chile, in April 2015. Hide Caption 13 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Smoke rises from the Turrialba volcano in Turrialba, Costa Rica, in March 2015. Eruptions of ash and stones prompted authorities to evacuate residential areas. Hide Caption 14 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Fuego volcano spews a cloud of ash west of Guatemala City, Guatemala, in March 2015. Hide Caption 15 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Villarrica, a Chilean volcano, began erupting in March 2015. The volcano is one of Chile's most active. Hide Caption 16 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Lava flows from the Kilauea volcano in Pahoa, Hawaii, in October 2014. The flow picked up speed, prompting emergency officials to close part of the main road through town and tell residents to be prepared to evacuate. Hide Caption 17 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Japan's Mount Sakurajima erupts in September 2014. It was the second volcano in two days to erupt in Japan. Hide Caption 18 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Dense white plumes rise high in the air as Mount Ontake erupts in central Japan in September 2014. Hide Caption 19 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Mount Slamet spews lava and gas during an eruption in Brebes, Indonesia, in September 2014. Hide Caption 20 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Fountains of lava spurt from a fissure in the ground on the north side of the Bardarbunga volcano in Iceland in September 2014. Hide Caption 21 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Mount Tavurvur erupts in Papua New Guinea in August 2014, forcing local communities to evacuate. Hide Caption 22 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Karymsky volcano erupts in Kamchatka, Russia, in January 2013. Hide Caption 23 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes The Copahue volcano emits smoke and ash above Caviahue, in Argentina's Neuquen province, in December 2012. Hide Caption 24 of 25 Photos: Recently active volcanoes Western Mexico's Colima volcano emits lava in October 2004. The Global Volcanism Program reported "a bright thermal anomaly" as well as gas emission in November 2013. Hide Caption 25 of 25It's been creeping along ever since, with authorities warning at one point the main road in Pahoa could be overcome by Friday morning.The lack of recent movement changes that equation, though the main flow -- which is about 20 yards wide at its tip, expanding to 100 yards farther back -- is still within about 480 feet of that street.There's no guarantee of what happens next, including whether the stream resumes its forward movement or whether any of its offshoots encroach on people or properties. A USGS geologist has said the lava flow could continue for 30 years.As Matthew Patrick, a geologist with the Hawaii Volcano Observatory, explained Thursday: "The flow is still active, and there is still scattered activity in the flow."So it's just a matter of where that activity is at any given moment."On Wednesday, Oliveria said about 20 families in the path of the lava have been told to evacuate. Many others have packed up, "prepared to move at a moment's notice" should they, too, get the order."You can see some of them walking around; they are still very upset, distraught, frustrated -- the full range of emotions as they're dealing with this crisis," the civil defense director said Thursday.So far, thankfully, no homes have been buried. Nor have any vehicles. Instead, it's mostly grass and vegetation that have been immersed and scorched.This isn't a lazy river, after all. It's a 2,000-degree river of molten rock, the kind that a firefighter can't use a hose to stop."As it moves across soil, you can hear and smell the fire," said Troy Scott of the Hawaii County Civil Defense Agency. "It is incredibly hot ... the heat is very strong."That's why there are ongoing efforts to make sure people and property are protected, as well as to clear out any hazardous materials, such as those at a one-time gas station, in the lava's potential path.Local civil defense officials got some help Thursday, in the form of 80 Hawaii National Guard members. Oliveria explained that these guardsmen will drive around on patrols as an extra set of eyes.He said, "As long as we need them, they'll be here."