Story highlights Thursday's partial eclipse reached its peak at 5:45 p.m. ETPeople in the Central Time zone got the best view, NASA saysNASA: Protect your eyes with special filters or indirect methods when viewing any eclipseDid you catch the eclipse? Share your best photos with CNN iReportIf there's one thing we've learned about the CNN iReport community, it's that you all love to capture celestial events.Thursday's partial solar eclipse was no exception.The eclipse reached its height at 5:45 p.m. ET, NASA said , meaning the eastern half of the country should have gotten a view before the backdrop of golden twilight hues. People living in the Central Time Zone had the best view.As the moon clipped the sun, it appeared like a fingernail. Or, according to iReporter and independent journalist Georgianne Nienaber , like an iconic arcade game character. "The moon took a little chunk out of the sun, like Pac-Man," she said. Neinaber spent her evening in Sanibel Island, Florida, getting the perfect shot of the eclipse.Of course, staring at the sun is never a good idea, even during an eclipse.Photos: Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos Photos: Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos – Jason Hullinger went to Joshua Tree National Park last December to catch the Geminid meteor shower. He set up his tripod to take 20-second exposures from about 11 p.m. Thursday to 3 a.m. Friday. He took about 500 photos and combined them with StarStaX, an image stacking and blending software for star trail photography. Hide Caption 1 of 9 Photos: Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos – Gokhan Saymaz is a part-time professional photographer. He created this dazzling image of star trails above Esentepe, in Cyprus. Saymaz used a long exposure technique, shooting 111 frames with a shutter speed of 30 seconds for each frame, before combining them using star trails software. Hide Caption 2 of 9 Photos: Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos – An avid astrophotographer, iReporter Carlos Soares took this photo near the Portuguese city of Braga. "This is widefield astrophotography with many targets, taken with a DSLR camera and a lens. We can see several constellations including Cygnus, the Lyra and the Eagle." Hide Caption 3 of 9 Photos: Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos – This breathtaking moonrise over the Sahara was taken by Slovenia-based photographer Iztok Medja , while in Morocco. In a former job as a nautical skipper, he would spend many night shifts gazing longingly at the sky. He says that it was while he was away from the light pollution of the city that his passion for night photography emerged. Hide Caption 4 of 9 Photos: Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos – Along with several other camera club members, iReporter Allan Qua Borebor made his way to one of the piers in Caramoan, in the Philippines, at around 11 p.m on June 30th. "The place was so quiet, so serene and so dark ... We were so lucky because a thousand stars showed up," Borebor recalls. "It was a perfect night together with friends." Hide Caption 5 of 9 Photos: Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos – Sarah Thornington is a Massachusetts-based iReporter who fell in love with the vast expanse above from a young age. On June 27, she picked up her camera and headed to the local drive-in. The night had all the conditions for a perfect shoot and Thornington watched as a couple of shooting stars (seen at the top of the image) blazed across the sky. She is already thinking about her summer stargazing bucket list -- to get "that beautiful shot of the Milky Way as it rises over the ocean." Hide Caption 6 of 9 Photos: Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos – Greg Hogan may only have been aiming his camera at the sky for the last six months but the astrophotography bug has bitten him pretty hard. "I bought a telescope for $25 at a yard sale and the first time I saw Saturn's rings, I was completely hooked," he says. "There's just so much out there that people don't realize that you can see without the equipment being expensive if you just slow down a minute and take a peek." Hide Caption 7 of 9 Photos: Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos – Stephen Gill who loves "science, space and all things tech-y," captured this photo while vacationing in Grand Cayman with his wife on August 13 last year. "I've been out three nights in a row trying to capture a Perseid (meteor shower) since the conditions here are amazing, and finally got lucky," he said. Hide Caption 8 of 9 Photos: Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos Among the stars: Your shots of the cosmos – An enthusiastic stargazer, 39-year-old Lewis de Mesa wasn't going to miss an opportunity to snap the Camelopardalids meteor shower in May this year. Standing atop the highest peak in the United Arab Emirates, de Mesa snapped this impressive shot but wasn't thrilled by the result. "Not so much luck here in the United Arab Emirates," he said. "It wasn't that great ... Good thing I got some Milky Way goodness." Hide Caption 9 of 9"Don't stare," NASA urged. "Even at maximum eclipse, a sliver of sun peeking out from behind the Moon can still cause pain and eye damage. Direct viewing should only be attempted with the aid of a safe solar filter."Photos: The summer of supermoons Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – Although the supermoon is not as rare as some other celestial events, it still inspires people to turn their gazes skyward. During the early morning hours of July 12, Marie Sager ventured outside her Los Angeles backyard to spot the supermoon before it faded away. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – Rachel Cauvin photographed the supermoon hanging over the Bronx, New York, sky. The morning haze seemed to give the moon a red hue. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – Minister Glenn Daman shot this photo from his deck in Stevenson, Washington, as the moon rose on the mountains across the Columbia River Gorge. He was hoping to capture "the surreal and haunting image that the cloud covere provided." We'd say he succeeded! Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – As the supermoon rose over the Long Island coast, Elias Aliprandis said he was inspired to take a photo because of its amazing beauty and bright orange hue. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – The supermoon this weekend was the best one iReporter Vijay Pandrangi has ever seen. The software engineer from Bothell, Washington, says he can't wait to see the supermoon again on August 10. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – It took Tim Durkan several lonely hours to get the perfect shot of the supermoon over the weekend in Seattle. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – Durkan waited outside all night to photograph the supermoon, trying to capture an evening and day shot of the bright moon. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – Mike Chiodo, who professionally goes by Mikiodo , loved photographing the supermoon so much, he did it two nights in a row. "Living in New York City, I am always craving some nature; I don't get enough. So I often look to the evening and nighttime skies to get my fix," he said. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – "Every supermoon and celestial event is an opportunity to practice and figure out what settings work best for different shots," Talia Landman of Orlando, Florida, said. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – Homer Liwag and his dog Sake sat in the desert in Las Vegas, Nevada, waiting for the supermoon. "This supermoon was striking as usual," he said. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – Kelli Thompson photographed the supermoon from the foothills of the Sierra Nevada Mountains in California. "The airplane bisecting the supermoon was quite unusual and unexpected," she said. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – Janice Wei photographed the supermoon from the San Francisco Bay Area on July 12. "I love to capture the moon. It's very beautiful and powerful when it's full," she said. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – "It was so beautiful. It was larger than other moons. We had a thunderstorm trying to develop right when it was rising," Patti Wolff from Phoenix, Oregon, said. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – The supermoon made an exciting appearance in other parts of the world, too. Marlo Cueto ventured to a park in Makati City, Philippines, so that he could find some sky that wasn't saturated by light pollution. Using a DSLR camera, he photographed the moon through the thick clouds floating above. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – Stojan Stojanovski photographed the supermoon from Ohrid, Macedonia. He photographs the supermoon every year and tries to find interesting ways of showcasing its beauty. This year, he took of a photo of the moon behind a family of storks. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – Will Cuccaro made this "bracketed" image from three individual photos taken at varying exposures. "Finding the right level of bracketing and then the right shutter speeds and aperture was trial and error. All in all, about 25 minutes outside in 100-degree heat = pain in the butt!" Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – Over the years, Katherine Murray has taken some nice full moon photos from the Outer Banks of North Carolina, but capturing an orange moon had eluded her until this weekend. "I was thrilled to be able to get the actual color as it came over the dunes," she said. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – "Clouds obstructed the moon until very late. But when I came outside at about 3:00 a.m. it was very bright!" Wanda Gemson wrote in her iReport. She watched the supermoon from Yucca Valley, California. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – After seeing people sharing beautiful supermoon photos, Manuel Navarro tried his hand at astrophotography. He captured this up-close shot of the moon over Chula Vista, California, with the help of a telescope on July 13. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: The summer of supermoons The summer of supermoons – "As a photographer and astronomer, a full moon is typically nothing to get excited about for me unless it's going to be somehow unique, such as in color," John Thiel of Astoria in Queens, New York, said. When he saw the amber coloring of the moon, he had to take a photo. Hide Caption 20 of 20The effort was worth it, he said. "It was epic!"