by Marsali Hancock, Special to CNN. She speaks nationally and internationally on digital citizenship issues, including safety, security and ethics. She holds a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree from Brigham Young University.With students back from the holidays, many new digital devices are in the halls at school. Research from Flurry shows that 6.8 million Android and iOS devices were activated on Christmas Day alone, along with 242 million apps downloaded. Teens wielding new iPads, smartphones and e-readers are discovering the ins and outs of being connected full-time.With all that holiday surprise in the digital world, schools will need a “no surprises” approach to managing connected devices on and off campus. Educating healthy, resilient digital citizens won’t happen by accident. As educators, we have to be proactive and work with parents to create a culture where good online behavior is the norm.Here are four surprises you’ll want to avoid:Surprise 1: Why is the network slow?Check the security of your wireless network. You don’t want a kid with a new iPad to suck up your bandwidth by streaming movies (or worse) on your wireless network. Check with your network administrator to verify that the network is secure. Ask for a log that shows usage. Most importantly, use a network key or passcode that will be difficult to hack.Surprise 2: Why is Facebook upsetting my classroom? What do you mean, new laws?More devices mean more opportunity for digital drama. Harassment or abuse through digital communications, even when it’s off campus, can materially affect your school climate and interfere with students’ ability to learn.­Preparation is paramount. Now is a good time to review and update your acceptable use policy , or AUP. Develop strategies for managing digital drama, including cyberbullying and harassment, when it happens. Most teens use social networking platforms like Facebook and YouTube, and for better or worse, these platforms often act as a megaphone for students to express their opinions.Gather an e-safety committee to think through your school strategies for prevention, detection, intervention and post-incident follow-up. Consider including responsible use policies for the many devices and Web platforms that students frequently use, particularly cell phones. The policies need to be easy to understand. Post them, refer to them, and use them as a consistent guide.Some states have new laws regarding cyberstalking, harassment and bullying. As of January 1, new laws in California, Illinois and Connecticut expanded the powers of schools to police what students post online. Know what is happening in your stateYour e-safety committee will also help with prevention of the next surprise …Surprise 3: You can cheat with an iTouch?The start of a new year is a good time to discuss our moral compass. Help everyone understand the consequences of misuse of digital devices on campus, particularly for plagiarism and cheating. If you don’t have established consequences, your e-safety committee can determine these and communicate them clearly to students, staff and parents.Surprise 4: Do your parents know what’s on that phone?Many parents don’t know how to manage content on wireless devices. A short note in a newsletter or e-mail with a few important concepts can make parents your partners in helping students become good digital citizens. For example: Most cell phone providers offer some parental controls at no cost with more advanced controls for a minimal fee. Other connected devices and computers can be secured with free apps. This will also protect your devices from hackers and malware.The good news is, research shows that parents are increasingly involved in the digital space with their children and that most parents have had conversations about expectations and limits. These active parents will be looking for guidance.As digital citizenship is addressed in schools, educators are in a unique position to move the needle for responsible use in the rising generation. The more we present good digital citizenship as the expected norm for teens, the more functional and resilient our students will be in connected environments.iKeepSafe offers a detailed curriculum for “2012’s Must-Have Resolution: Improve Digital Security Awareness,” at its free curriculum feed for educatorsThe opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Marsali Hancock.