By Cassie Meyer, Special to CNNEditor’s Note: Cassie Meyer is director of content and oversees training and curriculum development at Interfaith Youth Core. She has a master’s degree from the University of Chicago Divinity School.(CNN) -- As we lead up to the 83rd anniversary of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.’s birth next week, the organization that I work for, the -- As we lead up to the 83rd anniversary of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.’s birth next week, the organization that I work for, the Interfaith Youth Core , will be at Emory University for our January Interfaith Leadership Institute . More than 160 students, faculty and staff members from colleges and universities across the country will gather in King’s hometown to tackle questions of what it means to engage religious diversity constructively when so much of our public discourse about religion is fraught with ignorance, misunderstanding and outright bigotry.At Interfaith Youth Core, our mission is to make interfaith cooperation a social norm; we have always seen King not only as a key architect of the Civil Rights Movement but as what we call an “interfaith leader” for his ability to mobilize people of different religious and non-religious identities toward a common end. At the institute, we’ll ask how students and their allies from across the country can build on this facet of King’s legacy, making interfaith cooperation a reality on their campuses.According to Harvard professor Diana Eck , America is the most religiously diverse country in the world and the most religiously devout nation in the West. Given the fractured nature of religious discourse in our country, institutions of higher education are uniquely positioned to equip a new generation of leaders with the skills to constructively engage our religious diversity. Campuses have played a proactive and holistic role in engaging social issues such as multiculturalism; gay, lesbian and transgender issues; and gender equality, which has led to shifts in attitudes and behaviors beyond campus. This is not by chance. Broadly speaking, higher education is about preparing students for global citizenship, contributing to the common good and strengthening social cohesion. If colleges and universities – with leadership from students, faculty, staff members and administrators – engage religious diversity with the same ambition and resources they dedicate to other identity and diversity issues, there is an opportunity for lasting impact beyond the sphere of higher education in the broader culture.Read More