Story highlights Lawmakers seek a state law for families to keep guns away from troubled loved onesThe mass killing near Santa Barbara leads two California legislators to draft law"We're sick and tired of people dying in mass killings," Santa Barbara legislator saysCalifornia has some of toughest gun control laws in country, analyst saysThe mass killing near Santa Barbara, California , has prompted a proposal to create a "gun violence restraining order" that would temporarily bar a mentally unstable person from buying and possessing firearms after family, partners or friends call police.State Assemblyman Das Williams, a Democrat from Santa Barbara, said Wednesday that the legislation is designed to prevent mass killings similar to last weekend's rampage that left seven people dead, including the suspected killer, in Isla Vista, the off-campus student community for the University of California at Santa Barbara and the local community college.The proposed law would create a system where family members, friends and intimate partners could call police to intervene with troubled loved ones. Law enforcement would be able to investigate threats and ask a judge to issue an order prohibiting firearms purchases and possession, according to Williams and state Assemblywoman Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley), who both announced the legislation.Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Isla Vista victims – George Chen, 19, was at home near the University of California, Santa Barbara, on Friday, May 23, when his roommate Elliot Rodger, 22, went on a deadly rampage. Rodger stabbed Chen and two other people to death at his apartment before shooting and killing three more in a nearby neighborhood, authorities said. More than a dozen others were injured before Rodger died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Isla Vista victims – Cheng Yuan Hong, 20, was also stabbed to death. He was listed on the lease with Chen and Rodger. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Isla Vista victims – The third stabbing victim, 20-year-old Weihan Wang, was also a roommate. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Isla Vista victims – Veronika Weiss, 19, was killed outside the Alpha Phi sorority house. Her father, Bob Weiss, says she was exactly the kind of person who would want to help Rodger. "She was kind. She was the person who would reach out to the kids who weren't the popular kids, some of the nerdy kids, some of the kids that were a little bit like this Rodger kid described himself as." Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Isla Vista victims – Katherine Cooper, 22, was with Weiss when the two were killed. They were both members of the Tri Delta sorority. "Katie will be remembered for her generous spirit and warm heart. Veronika will be remembered for her vibrant personality and enthusiasm for life," Delta Delta Delta President Phyllis Durbin Grissom wrote. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Isla Vista victims – Chris Martinez, 20, was later gunned down at a deli. He dreamed of being a lawyer like his dad. Now his grieving father, Richard Martinez, has emerged as the public face of gun control advocates in the aftermath of the six killings in Isla Vista. Hide Caption 6 of 6JUST WATCHED Father of victim: 'Too many have died' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Father of victim: 'Too many have died' 02:01Williams acknowledged that gun rights advocates are certain to challenge the proposal, but he contended the legislation would balance rights because a mentally unstable person would be entitled to a court hearing to overturn the order."If I was in Congress, I would be much more daunted about getting this passed," Williams told CNN. "I think here in California, people have determined that enough is enough. We're sick and tired of people dying in mass killings."It is not intrusive if the judge still has discretion over the matter at the end of the day," Williams said of the proposed law. "And we believe that in this case -- I'm not omniscient, I can't tell you for sure that the tragedy would have been avoided -- but what's unique about this case is that the mother and father knew there was going to be a problem, and at this point, in current law, there's no way for them to do something about it."Williams was apparently referring to how a mental health agency had been concerned about Elliot Rodger , 22, the suspected killer in the weekend killings. The agency consulted one of Rodger's relatives and then called police to check on his welfare in April. Police visited Rodger but took no further action. On Friday, Rodger apparently killed himself after allegedly stabbing to death three people in his apartment and fatally shooting two women outside a sorority and a man inside a deli in Isla Vista.The legislators say there is no mechanism to limit firearm access in most cases involving an individual in crisis while that person is in mental health therapy, substance abuse treatment or anger management, the legislators say.Currently in California, family members may call police to intervene, but "if no crime has been committed, or the individual does not meet the criteria for an involuntary civil commitment to mental health treatment, there is essentially nothing that can be done to prevent that individual from purchasing firearms or to temporarily remove firearms from their possession during the crisis," the legislators said in a statement.JUST WATCHED A career fighting for gun control Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A career fighting for gun control 06:46JUST WATCHED Movie mogul targets 'take down' of NRA Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Movie mogul targets 'take down' of NRA 02:04JUST WATCHED Are smart guns a dumb idea? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Are smart guns a dumb idea? 01:30CNN legal analyst Mel Robbins, a former public defender, echoed that current state law doesn't provide an intervention process for such scenarios."There's no mechanism for the police or for the public or for a mental health professional to basically say, 'we need to take a look at this individual,' just like we might yank somebody's driver's license for acting recklessly," Robbins said.The legislation has a chance of being approved in California, Robbins said."California has some of the toughest gun control laws in the country," Robbins said.