Story highlights This many fires this early is a shocker"It's really awful, unprecedented," CNN meteorologist Jennifer Gray saysSome are skeptical that only nature is to blameThis isn't supposed to be happening. Not now, anyway.Nine confirmed wildfires have already burned nearly 9,200 acres in San Diego County.Southern California is no stranger to wildfires, but this many fires this early is a shocker."This is May," Carlsbad police Capt. Paul Mendes said. "This is unbelievable."Photos: Photos: California wildfires Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Residents watch a wildfire near San Diego on Friday, May 16. Wildfires devoured more than 20,000 acres in San Diego County after a high-pressure system brought unseasonable heat and gusty winds to the parched state. Hide Caption 1 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A paddleboarder watches two helicopters grab water from the Pacific Ocean to fight wildfires near Camp Pendleton, California, on May 16. Hide Caption 2 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Smoke plumes rise May 16 behind the entrance to Camp Pendleton, a U.S. Marine Corps base. Hide Caption 3 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A Marine helicopter scoops water from the ocean to fight a wildfire near Camp Pendleton on May 16. Hide Caption 4 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Flames light up the sky May 16 near Camp Pendleton. Hide Caption 5 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A helicopter drops water near homes in San Marcos, California, on May 16. Hide Caption 6 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Marines move military vehicles near the entrance to Camp Pendleton on May 16. Hide Caption 7 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – People look over a canyon ravaged by fire in Carlsbad, California. Hide Caption 8 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Fire engulfs a structure in Escondido, California, on Thursday, May 15. Hide Caption 9 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A firefighter pulls a hose on May 15 while battling a wildfire in San Marcos. Hide Caption 10 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A house in San Marcos burns on May 15. Hide Caption 11 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A helicopter from the San Diego County Sheriff's Department drops water on flames in the hills of San Marcos, California, on May 15. Hide Caption 12 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A huge plume of smoke in San Marcos is seen on May 15 from atop Mount Soledad in La Jolla, California. Hide Caption 13 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – The grille of a pickup truck is left melted by a wildfire in San Marcos. Hide Caption 14 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Smoke rises as a wildfire closes in on houses near San Marcos on May 15. Hide Caption 15 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Jeff Brown wets down the roof of his Escondido home as a wildfire smolders around it on May 15. Hide Caption 16 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A helicopter drops retardants onto a wildfire May 15 in San Marcos. Hide Caption 17 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A wildfire burns near homes and California State University in San Marcos on Wednesday, May 14. Hide Caption 18 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A house in San Marcos is consumed by a wildfire on May 14. Hide Caption 19 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Firefighters spray water on a burning building in Carlsbad, California. Hide Caption 20 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A firefighter puts out a spot fire in San Marcos. Hide Caption 21 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A plane drops fire retardant over a hot spot in San Marcos on May 14. Hide Caption 22 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A woman flees a wildfire as it crosses a highway in Carlsbad on May 14. Hide Caption 23 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A firefighter sprays water onto a fully engulfed home in Carlsbad on May 14. Hide Caption 24 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A helicopter flies over burning vegetation near homes in Carlsbad on May 14. Hide Caption 25 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A firefighter puts water on a smoldering fence outside a home in Carlsbad on May 14. Hide Caption 26 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A woman is escorted to safety May 14 in Carlsbad. Hide Caption 27 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A Carlsbad police officer turns traffic away as flames rage behind him on May 14. Hide Caption 28 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A wildfire approaches buildings in Carlsbad on May 14. Hide Caption 29 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A helicopter drops water near the Rancho Santa Fe neighborhood of San Diego on Tuesday, May 13. Hide Caption 30 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Trees burn on May 13 as a San Diego wildfire moves through a canyon between Rancho Santa Fe and the Fairbanks Ranch area. Hide Caption 31 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A wildfire threatens luxury homes in the Fairbanks Ranch area on May 13. Hide Caption 32 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Firefighters prepare to take on a wildfire in San Diego. Hide Caption 33 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – A helicopter battles a San Diego wildfire on May 13. Hide Caption 34 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Firefighters arrive to assist local personnel in San Diego on May 13. Hide Caption 35 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Smoke rises from a canyon where a San Diego wildfire burned on May 13. Hide Caption 36 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Firefighters watch from a ridge as a helicopter drops retardant on flames in San Diego on May 13. Hide Caption 37 of 38 Photos: Photos: California wildfires California wildfires – Billowing smoke rises as firefighters trek up the hills to battle a San Diego fire on May 13. Hide Caption 38 of 38Wildfires aren't typically a problem in California until the summer or maybe even the fall, when things get even hotter and drier.JUST WATCHED Hot winds fan San Diego-area wildfire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hot winds fan San Diego-area wildfire 03:20So what gives?The short answer is: A crippling drought and record high temperatures.In other words, it's bone dry and brutally hot.Add to that gusty winds -- and you have a potent mix."It's really awful, unprecedented," CNN meteorologist Jennifer Gray said. "We have never seen California this dry before. So this wildfire season could be one of the worst in history."Historic droughtCalifornia is in the midst of a long drought that has left it abnormally dry.How bad is it?This is how Gov. Jerry Brown put it in January: "the worst drought that California has ever seen since records (began) about 100 years ago."The exact financial impact of the historic drought in California has yet to be calculated. But the financial blow could be in the billions of dollars.Record heatIt's hot, hot, hot in San Diego County this month.San Diego and El Cajon experienced record highs of 93 and 99 on Wednesday, according to the National Weather Service.Thursday's forecast includes a heat advisory for the region, including temperatures up to 105."This is extreme. This has gone from dry conditions to volatile conditions," said one firefighter in Carlsbad, after using a torch to ignite backfire. "This isn't something we don't normally see until November or September."Gusty windsThe third factor compounding the situation: strong winds that are fanning the flames."The wind doesn't make it any easier," Carlsbad resident Marisa Gustafson told CNN affiliate KFMB . "The wind can change and all of a sudden, it just seems like we're going to be safe and we're not."Thousands of homes have been evacuated in Southern California. So have a nuclear power plant, a university campus and parts of a military base. Even Legoland, a popular amusement park, has been forced to close.Officials have issued some 23,000 evacuation notices in Carlsbad alone. And with nine fires burnings, firefighters are pooling their resources to try and gain control."This is only going to get worse," meteorologist Gray said.The skeptics' takeWhile investigators know what's keeping the fires burning, they haven't determined yet what caused them to flare up in the first place.So many fires, so quick, all of them separate -- that has some skeptical that only nature could be to blame.Among those confounded are San Diego County district supervisor Bill Horn who says he hasn't seen anything like this in at least 20 years."I'm sure it could be by chance," he said. "I just think there's too much of a coincidence here."