Story highlights Eight-second video shows President walking in braces with the help of an aideThe footage is one of two known extended clips in existence showing him walkingFormer MLB pitcher James "Jimmie" DeShong shot the film on a home movie cameraFilmmaker Ken Burns says film "clearly shows what a brave struggle it was for FDR to move"A rare video showing a walking President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who was paralyzed from the waist down by polio in 1921, has been donated to the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission.The video, only the second such clip in existence, shows the President, his legs supported by braces, moving gingerly while holding on to an aide's arm and grasping a handrail, making his way up a ramp. He was at Washington, D.C.'s, Griffith Stadium at the 1937 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, according to a museum statement."The fact that he is on an incline and that it is very windy makes his walking even more arduous," filmmaker Ken Burns, who is using the footage in a documentary that will air this fall, said in a statement. "The wind even presses his pants against his withered legs and you can clearly see the braces underneath."Burns said footage of Roosevelt struggling to move is rare because the Secret Service either prohibited or confiscated cameras at the time to minimize the public's knowledge of the devastating effects that polio had had on him. The media complied with the request."This remarkable eight seconds provided to us by the Pennsylvania State Archives is one of the very best pieces of film that so clearly shows what a brave struggle it was for FDR to move," Burns said. "This ... helps deepen the American public's understanding of the strength and fortitude this badly disabled man brought to the task of seeing our country through two of the worst crises in our history -- the Depression and World War II."Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun In addition to regularly playing golf, President Barack Obama also enjoys a game of basketball. Here's a look at the hobbies of other U.S. Presidents: Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun After choosing not to run for a third term, George Washington retired to his Virginia estate and led a life of farming. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun Thomas Jefferson was a renaissance man before the White House and continued to be one afterward. He kept up extensive letter writing, read Plato's "Republic" in its original Greek and dived head first into his hallmark project -- founding the University of Virginia. Jefferson designed the university's grounds and curriculum. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun Theodore Roosevelt, possibly the most famous sportsman to occupy the White House, continued to hunt after leaving office. In 1909, with the backing of the Smithsonian Institution, Roosevelt went on a yearlong safari that killed or trapped more than 11,000 animals. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun Warren G. Harding was an avid golfer. Golf courses in Los Angeles and San Francisco were named after him. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun Franklin D. Roosevelt, the only President elected four times, collected stamps throughout his life. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun Harry S. Truman always loved to play the piano. His mother was his first piano teacher. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun After leaving the White House, Dwight D. Eisenhower headed to a 189-acre farm near Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, where he raised and bred award-winning Angus cattle. In 2009, 40 years after his death, the American Angus Association recognized the 34th president for making "significant contributions to the Angus breed." Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun Like many members of the Kennedy family, John F. Kennedy loved sailing and was frequently photographed at sea with his wife, young children and other relatives. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun Lyndon B. Johnson kept a collection of vehicles at his ranch in Texas. Among them was the Amphicar , a civilian amphibious passenger car produced in the 1960s. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun Richard Nixon and first lady Pat Nixon both liked to bowl. The Nixons were responsible for moving the White House bowling alley back into the Executive Mansion after it had been relocated years earlier to a nearby building. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn, began fly fishing in Georgia in the early 1970s. Here, the 39th President fishes in Wyoming in 1978. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun Ronald Reagan enjoyed riding horses at his ranch near Santa Barbara, California. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun Crossword puzzles are one of Bill Clinton's hobbies. In 2007, Clinton wrote the clues for a puzzle in The New York Times. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: What U.S. Presidents do for fun George W. Bush has surprised many by taking up painting in his post-White House years. "I am a painter," the 43rd President told Jay Leno on "The Tonight Show." "You may not think I'm a painter; I think I'm a painter." Hide Caption 15 of 15President Franklin Delano Roosevelt smokes a cigarette and sits in the driver's seat in Hyde Park, New York, on July 4, 1937.Major League Baseball pitcher James "Jimmie" DeShong of the Washington Senators shot the film on his 8 mm home movie camera.DeShong's daughter, Judith Savastio, of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, donated the film to the Pennsylvania State Archives to "conserve, preserve, interpret and make it accessible to the public," the statement said.Bob Clark, deputy director of the FDR Presidential Library in Hyde Park, New York, called the film significant because it offers a rare glimpse into how the President managed his disability."What you see with this film is, even going to a baseball game was difficult for him," he said. "The people at the stadium saw a man with paralyzed legs, getting out of his car, locking his braces so his knees were rigid, and doing a difficult walking maneuver to get to his seat. ... What the film shows is that FDR was not hiding his disability."Robin Glass, director of Little White House in Warm Springs, Georgia, where the President retired, added: "To me it shows the public the strength and determination of FDR to live a normal lifestyle and not be limited by a crippling disease. It speaks volumes about such a determined man."FDR was stricken with polio at 39. The President attempted to conceal his disability from the public during a presidency that spanned most of the Great Depression and World War II.