Story highlights Police name three victims in Santa Barbara County rampageOne victim's father slams politicians, NRA in emotional comments to mediaSix people were killed by Elliot Rodger, 22, Friday night in Santa Barbara CountyThree men at an apartment, two women outside a sorority and one visitor to a deli were killed in a rampage Friday night in a college community near Santa Barbara, California, authorities said Saturday evening.The two women were identified as Katherine Cooper, 22, and Veronika Weiss, 19, both students at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Christopher Martinez, 20, was killed at the deli, officials said.Elliot Rodger, 22, went on a rampage in Isla Vista, a community near the university and Santa Barbara City College, stabbing three males at his residence and shooting others during a violent spree Friday, Sheriff Bill Brown told reporters. Some of the injured were struck by the suspect's car, authorities said.Martinez's father gave a wrenching statement to the news media Saturday afternoon.He was "a really great kid" whose "death has left our family lost and broken," Richard Martinez said."Our family has a message for every parent out there: You don't think it will happen to your child until it does," the visibly emotional parent said, his voice rising to a shout in obvious agony."Why did Chris die? Chris died because of craven, irresponsible politicians and the NRA. They talk about gun rights, what about Chris' right to live?" he continued.Richard Martinez provided this image of his son, Christopher Martinez, one of the victims of the shooting."When will this insanity stop?" he said. "When will enough people say, stop this madness, we don't have to live like this? Too many have died. We should say to ourselves -- not one more."Police say the shooter also died."It would appear that he took his own life," said Brown.'What a tragic loss'Weiss' Facebook page -- with a banner promoting a sorority event -- was filling with tributes Saturday evening.Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Isla Vista victims – George Chen, 19, was at home near the University of California, Santa Barbara, on Friday, May 23, when his roommate Elliot Rodger, 22, went on a deadly rampage. Rodger stabbed Chen and two other people to death at his apartment before shooting and killing three more in a nearby neighborhood, authorities said. More than a dozen others were injured before Rodger died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Isla Vista victims – Cheng Yuan Hong, 20, was also stabbed to death. He was listed on the lease with Chen and Rodger. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Isla Vista victims – The third stabbing victim, 20-year-old Weihan Wang, was also a roommate. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Isla Vista victims – Veronika Weiss, 19, was killed outside the Alpha Phi sorority house. Her father, Bob Weiss, says she was exactly the kind of person who would want to help Rodger. "She was kind. She was the person who would reach out to the kids who weren't the popular kids, some of the nerdy kids, some of the kids that were a little bit like this Rodger kid described himself as." Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Isla Vista victims – Katherine Cooper, 22, was with Weiss when the two were killed. They were both members of the Tri Delta sorority. "Katie will be remembered for her generous spirit and warm heart. Veronika will be remembered for her vibrant personality and enthusiasm for life," Delta Delta Delta President Phyllis Durbin Grissom wrote. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Photos: Isla Vista victims Isla Vista victims – Chris Martinez, 20, was later gunned down at a deli. He dreamed of being a lawyer like his dad. Now his grieving father, Richard Martinez, has emerged as the public face of gun control advocates in the aftermath of the six killings in Isla Vista. Hide Caption 6 of 6JUST WATCHED Father of victim: 'Too many have died' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Father of victim: 'Too many have died' 02:01"Rest in peace Veronika Weiss. Its not fair that life was taken from you in this manor. My thoughts are with your loved ones," wrote one commenter."... You were ALWAYS smiling. And I thought you were beautiful. Where are you now?" wrote another."My condolences to the family... What a tragic loss... R.I.P.," read a third.Weiss was a graduate of Westlake High School in Thousand Oaks, California, according to her Facebook page.Shooter's YouTube video titled 'Retribution'In a YouTube video he posted titled "Retribution," Rodger announced his intent to commit mass murder at a sorority house at UCSB."On the day of retribution I'm going to enter the hottest sorority house of UCSB," he said. "I'll take great pleasure in slaughtering all of you."Police said 13 people were injured in the melee -- four by vehicle, eight by gunshot wound, and one of unknown origin. Authorities earlier said seven people were injured.JUST WATCHED Witness: 'It was a huge shock' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Witness: 'It was a huge shock' 04:13Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Jose Cardoso pays his respects Sunday, May 25, at a makeshift memorial at the IV Deli Mart, where part of a mass shooting took place, in Isla Vista, California. Elliot Rodger, 22, went on a rampage Friday night, May 23, near the University of California, Santa Barbara, stabbing three people to death at his apartment before shooting and killing three more in a nearby neighborhood, sheriff's officials said. Rodger also injured 13 others and died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, authorities said.Hide Caption 1 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – A man places flowers on the lawn of the Alpha Phi sorority house in Isla Vista on May 25. Two young women -- Katherine Cooper, 22, and Veronika Weiss, 19, -- were fatally shot outside the house Friday night. Hide Caption 2 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Students gather for a candlelight vigil at the University of California, Santa Barbara, on Saturday, May 24. Hide Caption 3 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Two students comfort each other during the candlelight vigil to honor the victims of Friday night's mass shooting in Isla Vista. Hide Caption 4 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – People gather at a park in Isla Vista for the May 24 vigil. Hide Caption 5 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – IV Deli Mart owner Michael Hassan, second from left, cleans up his store with employees May 24 as onlookers gather outside one of the shooting scenes. Student Christopher Martinez, 20, was getting a sandwich at the deli when he was fatally shot. Hide Caption 6 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – University of Santa Barbara, California, student Derrick Hayes gets emotional outside the IV Deli Mart on May 24 in Isla Vista. Hide Caption 7 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – A police officer inspects the gunman's car on May 24 after the killing spree in Isla Vista. The suspect, described as mentally disturbed and possibly bent on retribution, sprayed bullets from his car in a rampage called "premeditated mass murder," Santa Barbara County sheriff's deputies said. Hide Caption 8 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – A Santa Barbara County deputy sheriff walks along the street May 24 near a shooting scene in Isla Vista. Hide Caption 9 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Santa Barbara County Sheriff Bill Brown speaks at a press conference regarding murder suspect Elliot Rodger on May 24. All the weapons used in Friday's rampage "were legally purchased" and registered to the suspect, Brown told reporters. Hide Caption 10 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Flowers are placed in a bullet hole in the window of a delicatessen in Isla Vista on May 24. Hide Caption 11 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Richard Martinez, father of victim Christopher Martinez, breaks down as he talks to media outside the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Office. "Our family has a message for every parent out there: You don't think it will happen to your child until it does," the visibly emotional parent said. Hide Caption 12 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – An investigator speaks on a cell phone while examining the gunman's car. Hide Caption 13 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – A woman looks at the bullet holes on the window of the deli where part of the shooting spree took place in Isla Vista, California. Hide Caption 14 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Flowers are left on the sidewalk of the IV Deli Mart in Isla Vista, California. Hide Caption 15 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Two women comfort each other Saturday near the scene of a shooting. Seven people also were being treated in a hospital for gunshot wounds or traumatic injuries, a sheriff's office spokeswoman said. Hide Caption 16 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – A Santa Barbara County deputy sheriff checks out the black BMW sedan driven by the suspected shooter. The gunman died from a gunshot wound after his car crashed, police said. It was unclear whether the fatal head wound was self-inflicted or the result of a firefight with police. Hide Caption 17 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – The car of the alleged shooter at the crime scene Saturday. Isla Vista is the residential quarter for students mostly enrolled in UCSB and some in Santa Barbara City College. The community sits on beachfront bluffs just west of UCSB. Hide Caption 18 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – The crime scene in the aftermath of the shooting. Hide Caption 19 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Broken glass at the shooting scene Saturday. Authorities said there were multiple crime scenes. Hide Caption 20 of 21 Photos: Photos: Deadly rampage in California town Deadly rampage in California college town – Fire trucks are parked outside an Isla Vista mart Friday night after the deadly rampage. The shootings occurred in a crowded area bustling with activity on Memorial Day weekend.Hide Caption 21 of 21Some of the injured were being treated in a hospital for gunshot wounds or traumatic injuries, including at least one who was in surgery, said sheriff's office spokeswoman Kelly Hoover.Nick Pasichuke, who was hit by Rodger's BMW, suffered two broken legs."There was a guy driving a BMW. I was on a longboard (elongated skateboard) and he aimed his car at our group of friends and gunned it into us," he said. "I have two broken legs and need surgery. The police said I flew roughly 50 feet into a busy intersection."He added, "This is all so crazy."Witness: 'She was hysterical'Skylar Serge witnessed one of the shootings from her house."I could see a woman on a bike get thrown," she said.The woman was bleeding, she added."She was hysterical. She was not sure if it was blood running down her leg" or water from her water bottle.The woman was cared for by an employee from a nearby convenience store who wrapped a belt around her thigh to stop the bleeding, said another witness, Farah Reiz.The shootings occurred in a crowded area bustling with activity on Memorial Day weekend."These students are among the best in the country and the loss of life is palpable," University of California system president Janet Napolitano told CNN.