Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge; Prince William, Duke of Cambridge; and Prince George of Cambridge depart RAAF Base Fairbairn on Friday, April 25, to head back to the UK after a three-week tour of Australia and New Zealand, their first official trip overseas with the 8-month-old prince. Hide Caption 1 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Lynne Cosgrove, center, wife of the governor-general of the Commonwealth of Australia, sees the royal family off. Hide Caption 2 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple attend Anzac Day commemorative services at the Australian War Memorial on April 25 in Canberra, Australia. Hide Caption 3 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple walk along the World War I Wall of Remembrance during their visit to the Australian War Memorial. Hide Caption 4 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William and Catherine listen to an address at a reception at Government House in Canberra, Australia, on Thursday, April 24. Hide Caption 5 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple visit the National Portrait Gallery in Canberra, Australia, on April 24. Hide Caption 6 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William speaks at a reception hosted by Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott at the Parliament House in Canberra on April 24. Hide Caption 7 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The duchess arrives at a reception at Parliament House in Canberra. Hide Caption 8 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine plays on DJ decks at a youth community center on Wednesday, April 23, in Adelaide, Australia. Hide Caption 9 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple is given a skateboard by city of Playford Mayor Glenn Docherty, second left, during a display at a skate park in the Adelaide suburb of Elizabeth on April 23. Hide Caption 10 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Prince William uses a spray canister during a visit to a skate park on April 23. Hide Caption 11 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Prince William and his wife unveil a plaque naming a plaza after their son, Prince George, outside the Playford Civic Centre in Adelaide on April 23. Hide Caption 12 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple pose in front of Ayers Rock in Australia on Tuesday, April 22. Hide Caption 13 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple look at an aboriginal map showing the location of indigenous language groups before European settlement during a visit to the National Indigenous Training Academy at Yulara in Ayers Rock, Australia, on April 22. Hide Caption 14 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Prince William is guided along the Kuniya walk at Uluru, Australia, with a group on April 22. Hide Caption 15 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The duke and duchess walk past members of the St. Andrews Cathedral choir after an Easter celebration in Sydney on Sunday, April 20. Hide Caption 16 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Prince George of Cambridge reaches for a stuffed toy during a visit to Sydney's Taronga Zoo on April 20. The toy represents a bilby, an Australian marsupial on the verge of extinction. The zoo named its Prince George Bilby Exhibit soon after the prince's birth in July 2013. Hide Caption 17 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The Duchess of Cambridge and Prince William pat a koala named Leuca, held by Lucinda Cveticanin, during their visit to the zoo on April 20. Hide Caption 18 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine steps into the cockpit of a RAAF Super Hornet with Air Marshall Geoff Brown and Wing Commander Stephen Chappell at her side on Saturday, April 19. Hide Caption 19 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Large crowds cheer and try to catch a glimpse of the duchess on the South Bank in Brisbane, Australia, on April 19. Hide Caption 20 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine receives flowers from 9-year-old Ashleigh Kearnan during a visit to the Royal Australian Air Force Base at Amberley on April 19. Hide Caption 21 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, and Catherine wave to the crowd during an event on Manly Beach in Sydney on Friday, April 18. Hide Caption 22 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple watches a beach sprint race with Australian surf lifesavers on Manly Beach on April 18. Hide Caption 23 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine speaks with a child at the Bear Cottage Hospice on April 18 in Sydney. Hide Caption 24 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William visits with a patient at Bear Cottage. Hide Caption 25 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – A woman holds up a painting of Prince George before the royal couple's visit to Manly Beach. Hide Caption 26 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William and Catherine receive a surfboard alongside Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Manly Mayor Jean Hay at Manly Beach. Hide Caption 27 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine speaks with young lifeguards at Manly Beach in Sydney. Hide Caption 28 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The duchess pets Fred the Merino Ram during a visit to the Royal Easter Show in Sydney on April 18. Hide Caption 29 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The duke and duchess join Girl Guides after planting a tree Thursday, April 17, in Winmalee, Australia, an area heavily affected by recent bush fires. Hide Caption 30 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine shovels dirt at the tree planting in Winmalee on April 17. Hide Caption 31 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William peers over a cliff edge at Narrow Neck Lookout near Katoomba, Australia, as he and his wife observe team-building exercises by a youth group on April 17. Hide Caption 32 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple tour the Three Sisters rock formation near Katoomba flanked by Randall Walker, chief executive officer of Blue Mountains Lithgow and Oberon Tourism, left, and Anthea Hammon, joint managing director of Scenic World. Hide Caption 33 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William greets emergency services personnel in Winmalee on April 17. Hide Caption 34 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William meets with Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott at Admiralty House in Sydney on April 17. Hide Caption 35 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple leave the Sydney Opera House after a reception Wednesday, April 16, in the Australian city. Hide Caption 36 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Lynne Cosgrove, wife of Australia's governor-general, greets Britain's royal couple and Prince George at Sydney Airport on April 16. Hide Caption 37 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William and Catherine watch an Aboriginal welcome performance at the Sydney Opera House on April 16. Hide Caption 38 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple receive cricket bats in front of the Cricket World Cup trophy at an April 16 reception at the Sydney Opera House. Hide Caption 39 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William greets guests during an April 16 reception at the Sydney Opera House. Hide Caption 40 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal family bids farewell to New Zealand as they get ready to depart from Wellington International Airport on April 16. Hide Caption 41 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple hold puppies during a visit to the Royal New Zealand Police College in Wellington, New Zealand, on April 16. Hide Caption 42 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – New Zealanders wait to see the royal family at Wellington's Civic Square on April 16. Hide Caption 43 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple wave after their tour of the new visitors center at New Zealand's Christchurch Botanic Gardens on Monday, April 14. Hide Caption 44 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William plays cricket in Christchurch's Latimer Square on April 14. Hide Caption 45 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine also takes a swing. Hide Caption 46 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple tours the Christchurch Botanic Gardens with Mayor Lianne Dalziel. Hide Caption 47 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William and Catherine pose with members of the Christchurch Cathedral choir during their visit to the Transitional Cathedral on April 14. Hide Caption 48 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The duke and duchess ride on a jet boat along the Shotover River in Queenstown, New Zealand, on Sunday, April 13. Hide Caption 49 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple samples wine during a visit to Amisfield Winery in Queenstown on April 13. Hide Caption 50 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William and Catherine walk with the dean of St. Paul's Cathedral, the Very Rev. Trevor James, left, and Ngai Tahu representative John Broughton after arriving for a Palm Sunday service at the cathedral in Dunedin, New Zealand, on April 13. Hide Caption 51 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – New Zealand Rugby CEO Steve Tew, left, the royal couple and All Blacks captain Richie McCaw congratulate the winners of the the young players' rugby tournament at Forsyth Barr Stadium in Dunedin on April 13. Hide Caption 52 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The Duke and Duchess are presented with an Avanti mini bike for Prince George during a visit to the Avanti Drome in Hamilton, New Zealand, on Saturday, April 12. Hide Caption 53 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – A young child shows his toy to the duchess in Cambridge, New Zealand, on April 12. Hide Caption 54 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William, left, hangs on as Catherine drives a boat to Westpark Marina in Auckland, New Zealand, on Friday, April 11. Hide Caption 55 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William steers a yacht in Waitemata Harbour in Auckland on April 11. Hide Caption 56 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The duchess makes a playful gesture to William after twice beating him in friendly races on April 11. Hide Caption 57 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Fans of the royal family cheer them on as they race yachts in Auckland on April 11. Hide Caption 58 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple arrive at the Royal New Zealand Air Force base of Whenuapai in Auckland to meet with military families on April 11. Hide Caption 59 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine greets military families at the Royal New Zealand Air Force base in Auckland on April 11. Hide Caption 60 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – William sits in a Sopwith Pup airplane as he and Catherine visit the Omaka Aviation Heritage Centre in Blenheim, New Zealand, on Thursday, April 10. Hide Caption 61 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple unveil a portrait of Queen Elizabeth II, painted by Nick Cuthell, at Government House in Wellington, New Zealand, on April 10. Hide Caption 62 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine and William chat with guests at a state reception at Government House in Wellington. Hide Caption 63 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Prince William greets 3-year-old twins Lola and Milly Barnett after a wreath-laying ceremony in Blenheim. Hide Caption 64 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Film director Peter Jackson joins the royal couple as they tour the Omaka Aviation Heritage Centre in Blenheim on April 10. Hide Caption 65 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine holds Prince George at a specially convened play group at Government House in Wellington on Wednesday, April 9. Hide Caption 66 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Prince George joins in the fun at Government House in Wellington on April 9. Hide Caption 67 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – The royal couple and their son arrive in Wellington on Monday, April 7. Hide Caption 68 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine carries Prince George as they arrive for the start of the tour. Hide Caption 69 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – A close-up view of Prince George as he makes his first international trip. Hide Caption 70 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine receives a "hongi," a traditional Maori greeting, by a Maori elder during a welcoming ceremony at Government House in Wellington. Hide Caption 71 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Prince William also receives a hongi from a Maori elder. Hide Caption 72 of 74Photos: Photos: Royals Down Under Royals tour New Zealand and Australia – Catherine talks with a Maori warrior during the welcoming ceremony at Government House. Hide Caption 73 of 74