Story highlights NASA: The spacewalk has concluded, lasting 7 hours and 30 minutesThe astronauts are trying to fix a problem on the International Space StationA malfunctioning pump in the station's cooling system needed to be replacedIt's the second Christmas Eve spacewalk in history, NASA saysWhile many people spent Christmas Eve doing last-minute shopping, two American astronauts had a more challenging matter to attend to Tuesday.In orbit more than 200 miles above Earth, flight engineers Rick Mastracchio and Mike Hopkins embarked on a spacewalk Tuesday morning to repair part of the International Space Station's cooling system.The spacewalk ended at 2:23 p.m. ET Tuesday and lasted 7 hours and 30 minutes, NASA said.More than four hours into the job, the two astronauts had successfully bolted a replacement ammonia pump module into its location and were working to connect lines to allow the ammonia to flow, NASA said in a tweet.There was a slight kink in the work when one of the fluid lines tangled. The astronauts untangled it, but when they did, the line released some ammonia flakes that landed on their space suits.It was not a leak, but some residue, NASA spokesman John Ira Petty said. The ammonia that landed on the spacesuits will require the spacewalkers to air out their suits before going back into the station, but is otherwise not a big deal, he said.The two engineers were carrying out the second in a series of expeditions needed to replace a malfunctioning pump, which circulates ammonia through loops outside the station to keep equipment cool.The pump developed problems December 11 when an internal valve stuck in an incorrect position. The space station's life support system remains up and running, but operations were cut back as a result of the problem, NASA said.JUST WATCHED Space suit problem delays spacewalk Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Space suit problem delays spacewalk 01:50JUST WATCHED NASA delays emergency spacewalk Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NASA delays emergency spacewalk 05:23JUST WATCHED This week in space Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This week in space 04:30Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – NASA posted this snap of astronaut James H. Newman on November 20, 1998, to celebrate the 15th anniversary of the International Space Station. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – A #nofilter image of the surface of Mars, courtesy NASA's Mars Curiosity Rover. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – Super Typhoon Haiyan lashing the Philippines, taken from NASA's Aqua satellite on November 7. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – There it goes! A still camera on a sound trigger captured this intriguing photo of an airborne frog in the foreground as NASA's Lunar Atmosphere and Dust Environment Explorer spacecraft lifts off toward the moon. This foreground photobomber stole the show , earning this snap almost 25,000 likes. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – This one went viral too: a new view of Saturn taken by NASA's Cassini spacecraft. It's a natural color image that shows the view as it would be seen by a human observer. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – A throwback to 2010 for the International Space Station's 15th anniversary: NASA astronaut Tracy Caldwell Dyson looks down at Earth through a window on the ISS. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – NASA astronaut Karen Nyberg takes a selfie with Russian cosmonaut Fyodor Yurchikhin and European Space Agency astronaut Luca Parmitano behind her. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – From the Hubble telescope: the crowded center of the Milky Way, showing the constellation Sagittarius. Right in the center of the image is a supermassive black hole called Sagittarius A*, consuming clouds of dust as it affects its environment with its enormous gravitational pull. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – A historic image of Earth from the moon, taken on July 20, 1969, from Apollo 11. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – A view of spiral galaxy IC 2560 captured from the Hubble Space Telescope. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – To celebrate the launch of Mars probe MAVEN on November 18, NASA showed off this mosaic from the Viking 1 Orbiter, which passed by the planet over 30 years ago, on February 22, 1980. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – A Soyuz spacecraft carrying new International Space Station residents Oleg Kotov, Mike Hopkins and Sergey Ryazanskiy arrives at the space station in September. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – Earth on September 7, as seen by the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellites, which looks out for atmospheric "triggers" for severe weather conditions such as flash floods and hurricanes. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – Drifting away: three nanosatellites, known as Cubesats, are deployed from the ISS airlock. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Photos from NASA's Instagram Out-of-this-world NASA Instagram photos – Expedition 36 flight engineer Chris Cassidy of NASA is carried to the medical tent shortly after landing in Kazakhstan on September 11, having spent five and a half months on the International Space Station. Hide Caption 15 of 15It is the second Christmas Eve spacewalk in history, according to NASA.Spacesuit problemMastracchio used a different spacesuit after a small amount of water leaked into the cooling system of the one he wore Saturday.NASA said the issue with the suit, which happened at the end of the spacewalk, was unrelated to a problem experienced in July when water pooled in an Italian astronaut's helmet , causing a spacewalk to be cut short."Both Mastracchio and Hopkins reported dry conditions repeatedly throughout Saturday's activities and the two were never in danger," the agency said.NASA had installed new safeguards, including snorkels inside the spacesuits that would allow astronauts to take breaths if water formed and they had to return to the space station.Tuesday's spacewalk was the 176th to support the space station's assembly and maintenance, according to NASA.The previous Christmas Eve spacewalk took place in 1999, the agency said, when Discovery astronauts Steve Smith and John Grunsfeld spent more than eight hours refitting parts of the Hubble Space Telescope.The others on board the International Space Station at the moment include Russian cosmonauts Mikhail Tyurin, Sergey Ryazanskiy and Oleg Kotov and Japanese astronaut Koichi Wakata.