Story highlights 22 pilot whales have died; 29 are still missingScientists are working to determine their cause of deathNOAA: " The outlook for finding the remaining whales alive is bleak"Eleven pilot whales were found dead Sunday in the lower Florida Keys, doubling the number of dead whales found in the past week.Officials with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration believe the 11 whales were part of an pod of 51 whales stranded on the edge of Everglades National Park.Scientists are working to determine their cause of death."This totals 22 dead whales and 29 still missing," NOAA said in a statement. "Given our knowledge of past mass pilot whales strandings, the outlook for finding the remaining whales alive is bleak."Photos: Photos: Whales stranded in Everglades Photos: Photos: Whales stranded in Everglades Whales stranded in Everglades – Officials in boats monitor dozens of pilot whales that are stranded in shallow water in a remote area of Florida's Everglades National Park, on Wednesday, December 4. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Photos: Whales stranded in Everglades Whales stranded in Everglades – A dead pilot whale lies near the beach in a remote area of Florida's Everglades National Park. Federal officials say 10 of the dozens of whales stranded are now dead. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Photos: Whales stranded in Everglades Whales stranded in Everglades – A dead pilot whale lies near the beach in a remote area of Everglades National Park. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Photos: Whales stranded in Everglades Whales stranded in Everglades – Officials monitor the scene where dozens of pilot whales are stranded in shallow water. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Photos: Whales stranded in Everglades Whales stranded in Everglades – A man paddles a kayak past two pilot whales in a remote area of Everglades National Park. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Photos: Whales stranded in Everglades Whales stranded in Everglades – Pilot whales are stranded on a beach in a remote area of the western portion of Everglades National Park on Tuesday, December, 3. The marine mammals are known to normally inhabit deep water. Hide Caption 6 of 6The last time the group was spotted alive was Friday. Then, a pod of 20 whales was seen five nautical miles offshore, moving inshore and in a southward direction.They were reportedly swimming slowly and in a disorganized fashion, which could have suggested exhaustion, dehydration or malnutrition, according to NOAA.Pilot whales are protected under the Marine Mammal Protection Act, but they are not endangered.Mass strandings by pilot whales are not altogether uncommon in Florida.In 2012, nearly two dozen pilot whales stranded and beached themselves. In 2011, 23 pilot whales stranded and beached themselves.