Story highlights Nicole Hockley lost her son Dylan, 6, in the Newtown shootingShe opposed the release of the 911 call recordings and fears hearing them by chanceOther victims' loved ones support the release; they want the public to knowPsychologists say the release can help or hurt family members and othersA lifetime may be too short to recover from the loss of a child, let alone just a year. Nicole Hockley knows this.Adam Lanza shot dead her 6-year-old son, DylanHer wounds are still raw. And the release Wednesday of the 911 calls to police after Lanza charged into Sandy Hook Elementary with an assault rifle was like rubbing salt on those wounds."I have no desire whatsoever to hear the slaughter of 26 people, including my 6-year-old boy. And I can't imagine why anyone else would want to hear that as well," Hockley told CNN.She absolutely did not want a judge to release the recordings of the December 14 massacre in Newtown, Connecticut, that claimed the lives of 20 first-graders and six teachers.JUST WATCHED Authorities release Sandy Hook 911 tapes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Authorities release Sandy Hook 911 tapes 01:51JUST WATCHED Impact of Newtown 911 tapes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Impact of Newtown 911 tapes 07:24JUST WATCHED Marsha Lanza: I know how the families feel Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Marsha Lanza: I know how the families feel 00:50Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners wipe tears away as they file out of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints after the funeral of Emilie Parker in Ogden, Utah, on Saturday, December 22. Hide Caption 1 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – The casket of Rachel Marie D'Avino is carried into the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, Connecticut on Friday, December 21. Hide Caption 2 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Parents attend the funeral of Dylan Hockley, 6, a victim of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, on December 21 in Newtown, Connecticut. Hide Caption 3 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A view from outside the funeral service for 6-year-old Dylan Hockley at Walnut Hill Community Church on December 21. Hide Caption 4 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Family members depart the Trinity Episcopal Church in Newtown, Connecticut, following a funeral for Benjamin Wheeler, 6, on December 20. Hide Caption 5 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners, including Boy Scout and Tiger Scout members, depart the funeral on December 20, 2012. Wheeler was a member of Tiger Scout Den 6. Hide Caption 6 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Boy scouts salute as a funeral procession for Benjamin Wheeler enters the Trinity Episcopal Church on December 20, in Newtown, Connecticut. Hide Caption 7 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Firefighters salute as the casket of Daniel Barden, 7, a victim of the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School, is removed from St. Rose of Lima Church on Wednesday, December 19, 2012, in Newtown, Connecticut. Hide Caption 8 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Police escort the hearse bearing the casket of Daniel Barden from St. Rose of Lima Church on December 19. Hide Caption 9 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners enter St. Rose of Lima Church for the funeral of Charlotte Bacon, 6, on December 19, in Newtown. Hide Caption 10 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A police officer directs traffic as mourners enter the church for Charlotte Bacon's funeral on December 19. Hide Caption 11 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A procession arrives for the funeral of Victoria Soto, 27, at Lordship Community Church in Stratford, Connecticut, on December 19. Soto was a first-grade teacher being hailed as a hero for protecting the children in her class during last week's school massacre in Newtown. Hide Caption 12 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A woman carries a program with Soto's photo after attending a funeral for the slain teacher in Stratford on December 19. Hide Caption 13 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Bagpipers play at funeral services for Soto on December 19 in Stratford. Hide Caption 14 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Richard and Krista Rekos leave after a funeral service for their 6-year-old daughter, Jessica, at Saint Rose of Lima Church on Tuesday, December 18, in Newtown. Jessica was one of 20 children killed in last week's school shooting. Hide Caption 15 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Family and friends depart Jessica's funeral on December 18 in Newtown. Hide Caption 16 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A child stands next to a makeshift memorial for Jessica Rekos following her funeral on December 18. Hide Caption 17 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Pallbearers carry out James Mattioli's casket at St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church after a funeral Mass on December 18 in Newtown. James, 6, was one of the 26 victims in the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown. Hide Caption 18 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners console each other after the funeral for James Mattioli on December 18. Hide Caption 19 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – People arrive for the funeral of Jessica Rekos, 6, at St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church in Newtown on December 18. Hide Caption 20 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Jessica Rekos' casket arrives at St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church as mourners gather December 18. Hide Caption 21 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners console each other after attending the funeral for Jack Pinto, 6, on December 17. Hide Caption 22 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners grieve the death of Jack Pinto, 6, on December 17. Hide Caption 23 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A mother and two children attend the funeral for Jack Pinto on December 17. Children are among those crowding the funeral for the 6-year-old boy. Hide Caption 24 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A man comforts a young mourner at Honan Funeral Home while attending the funeral for Jack Pinto, 6, on December 17. Hide Caption 25 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Boys enter Honan Funeral Home before Jack Pinto's funeral on December 17 in Newtown. Hide Caption 26 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Veronika Pozner, mother of Noah Pozner, arrives for her son's funeral on Monday, December 17, at the Abraham L. Green and Son Funeral Home in Fairfield, Connecticut. Monday is the first day of funerals for the 20 children and seven adults who were killed by 20-year-old Adam Lanza on December 14. Hide Caption 27 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Three women embrace as they arrive for the funeral services for Noah Pozner on December 17. Hide Caption 28 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners arrive at Noah Pozner's service in Fairfield on December 17. Hide Caption 29 of 30 Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners leave Noah Pozner's service on December 17 in Fairfield. Hide Caption 30 of 30After the release, media organizations struggled with how to handle the material. Some news outlets, including CNN, opted to air portions of the recordings, including a 911 call from a school secretary, one from a teacher and one from a janitor.Other news organizations decided not to use any of the material directly, instead describing some of the recordings in news coverage without airing or posting any of the contents.Hockley says she'll do her best to avoid hearing the voices describing the horror of that day, of gunfire popping in the background. But she's afraid of happenstance."I don't know if I'm going to turn on the radio one day, or turn on the TV one day, or be Googling on something and just happen to come across them by accident," Hockley said.Bringing back memoriesParents of the murdered students were able to leverage the law to prevent the release of the crime scene photos from that day. But some of them are upset they couldn't hold back the 911 recordings.The Associated Press had requested they be made public in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act.Scenes of grieving parents on the day of the shooting are still vivid in the mind of Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut. Now that the call recordings are out, he's concerned about the pain they'll cause."I think the tapes bring back those memories," he said.But the appeals judge, who upheld the decision to release them, didn't really have a choice, he said.Judge Eliot Prescott was afraid that holding them back would "fuel speculation about and undermine confidence in our law enforcement officials."The good in the badCristina Hassinger, who lost her mother to Lanza's bullets, agrees with Prescott's decision -- despite her personal anguish.Hassinger's mother, Dawn Hochsprung , was the school principal. She was confronting Lanza when he gunned her down.Hassinger believes that knowing is better than not knowing. The calls belong to the American public, she said. And they can help the country deal with future shootings."They don't belong to the victims' families, painful as they may be, and there is nothing on the recordings that violates the victims' privacy," Hassinger said. "The public has the right to know."Psychologists dividedPsychologists were divided on how to handle the calls.Judy Ho frowns on their release, particularly the effect they might have on children who hear them."There are computers everywhere. Even if you have parental control, kids can get past that and listen to these tapes themselves," she told CNN's Don Lemon.She fears the exposure will trigger post-traumatic stress disorder, even in people who have no connection to the school or its community.But clinical psychologist Jeff Gardere believes that the pain of reliving those moments will help people process the trauma."I think listening to these tapes, of course, will open old wounds. But sometimes you do have to open them in order to clean them out."Neil Heslin purposely used the recordings to reopen his own."I had felt it was something that I needed to do, that I wanted to do," he said. "Just to know. Jesse was my son. I brought him into the world."Jesse died at Lanza's hands."You can only try to imagine what it's like to lose a child," Heslin said. "And unless you've lost a child, you can't imagine. The best description I can give is it's like losing a leg and an arm ... and not being able to hold yourself up or support yourself."Heslin got to spend just six short years with his son before Jessie was lowered into the ground.And this holiday season will be especially tough for his family. Heslin plans to take down a Christmas tree he set up with Jesse after Thanksgiving last year. They planned to decorate it in a few days.They never did.