Story highlights Gunman's family offers prayers for surviving victimClaire Davis is stable, but in a coma, her family saysThe horse-loving senior "wouldn't hurt a fly," classmates sayDavis didn't know the student who shot her in the head, police sayFriends of Claire Davis, the 17-year-old senior critically wounded in Friday's shooting at a Colorado high school, are wondering why bad things happen to good people.Davis is in a struggle for her life at a hospital in Littleton, near Arapahoe High School, where a classmate shot her in the headShe remained in critical condition Sunday."She is stable, but is in a coma. The first responders got Claire to the right place, at the right time, and the doctors and hospital staff are doing a wonderful job taking care of her," her family said in a statement."We appreciate your continued good thoughts and prayers, and will provide updates as her condition improves."Among those praying for Davis is the family of Karl Pierson, the 18-year-old senior who police say shot her. In a statement released Monday afternoon, Barbara and Mark Pierson said Davis and her family "have suffered unimaginably, and we pray for her full recovery.""As parents, we loved our son Karl dearly and we are devastated by what happened Friday. We cannot begin to understand why Karl did what he did," the Piersons said. They also offered prayers "for the entire Arapahoe High School community, as we know your lives are forever changed by this horrific event."Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Claire Davis, a 17-year-old senior at Arapahoe High School, died Saturday, December 21, eight days after she was shot by a student with a shotgun at the school in Centennial, Colorado. "Despite the best efforts of our physicians and nursing staff, and Claire's fighting spirit, her injuries were too severe," Littleton Adventist Hospital said in a statement. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Arapahoe County Sheriff Grayson Robinson holds a picture of Davis at a press conference on Saturday, December 14, after identifying her as the victim of the shooting at Arapahoe High School the day before. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Robinson identified the shooter as 18-year-old Karl Halverson Pierson, who killed himself after opening fire. Pierson had asked about a specific teacher when he entered the school armed with a shotgun on December 13. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Students are escorted out of Arapahoe High School in Centennial, Colorado, on December 13. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Students wait outside Arapahoe High school after being evacuated on December 13. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Officers escort students out of Arapahoe High School. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Susie Ohle hugs Rob Escue as he came out of the school on Friday afternoon. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Ruben Allen hugs his son Alex Allen, 17, after being evacuated from the school Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Students and parents walk away from the school. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Law enforcement personnel arrive at the high school in a military-style vehicle. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – SaSha Meiler is overcome with emotion after hearing the voice of her younger sister, a freshman. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Parents Cathy Thorson, left, and Heather Moran, facing the camera, embrace while they wait for news on their children. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Students walk away from the school in single file with their hands up. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Students from Arapahoe High School gather at the school's track. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – People gather outside the school. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Parents wait for word about their children after a gunman opened fire at the school. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Members of law enforcement are seen outside the school. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Arapahoe High School shooting Arapahoe High School shooting – Law enforcement personnel gather near the high school. Hide Caption 18 of 18JUST WATCHED Student: We hid in the dark and waited Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Student: We hid in the dark and waited 01:01JUST WATCHED Shooting 911 call: 'One student down' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shooting 911 call: 'One student down' 02:05Police say Pierson was looking for revenge against a librarian, but couldn't find the faculty member and killed himself as a school resource officer closed in. Davis was just a random victim, police surmised, and the gunman and victim didn't even know each other.Davis' classmates spoke well of her. They used words like spunky and bright."She was just a very sweet girl. She's really smart," August Clary told CNN affiliate KUSA . He said Davis loves to ride horses and "wouldn't hurt a fly."Hundreds of people attended a vigil for Davis on Saturday night.Katie Snively, a senior at Arapahoe, said it was important to honor and pray for Claire.Many people were tweeting to the hashtag #prayforclaire."Claire is a hero. our hero. she deserves to be rewarded not only with thanks, but with another chance at life," Aidan Loughran wrote."Thank God for waking us up again and for keeping Claire through the night. Don't forget to pray as we wake up this morning," Jonathon Bailey tweeted Sunday.