Story highlights At least two winning tickets were sold, one in California and one in GeorgiaThe winning numbers are 8, 20, 14, 17 and 39, with a Megaball of 7The jackpot is so large in part because Mega Millions' odds rose with more numbers in playThe jackpot is close to the record $656 million prize that was split in 2012At least two people have matched the winning numbers in Tuesday night's $636 million Mega Millions jackpot.One winning ticket was sold in Georgia, and the other was sold in California, lottery officials said.The winning numbers were 8, 14, 17, 20 and 39, with a Megaball of 7.Strong sales boosted the jackpot to $636 million from the previous estimate of $586 million, lottery officials announced late Tuesday morning.That's tantalizingly close to the U.S. record -- a $656 million Mega Millions jackpot split by three winning tickets in March 2012.JUST WATCHED Mega Millions jackpot could be a billion Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mega Millions jackpot could be a billion 02:47JUST WATCHED Former lottery winner Cynthia Stafford Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Former lottery winner Cynthia Stafford 03:06JUST WATCHED Lottery agency tracks down winner Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lottery agency tracks down winner 01:48JUST WATCHED Psychiatrist: Lottery fever is good Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Psychiatrist: Lottery fever is good 02:00This jackpot was so large in part because Mega Millions, in a sense, became tougher to win. The prize rises with each miss, and no one has won it since organizers increased the pool of numbers to choose from -- making astronomical odds even longer -- back in October.In Florida, $8,000 worth of tickets were sold every minute from 9 to 10 a.m. Tuesday, CNN affiliate WFTS reported, citing lottery officials. Mega Millions tickets go for $1 each, though buyers choose to pay an additional $1 for the Megaplier option, which could multiply lesser, non-jackpot winning prizes.A lottery player in the Bronx joked the jackpot wouldn't change his life."It would just change my vocabulary. I would say, 'I quit' (my job)," he told CNN affiliate News 12 of New York on Tuesday morning at a gas station in the Bronx's Hunts Point neighborhood.At Bunny's Superette in Manchester, New Hampshire, a clerk told CNN affiliate WMUR that Mega Millions sales were brisk Tuesday -- she'd gone through four rolls of ticket paper by noon.One player there, Armand Lesage, said he'd like to use the jackpot to escape snowy New Hampshire for a warm vacation. But he'd also share with his large family."My mother had 19 of us, and that is a big family, and 14 are still living," he told WMUR.The chance of winning -- never particularly bright -- got worse in late October, when Mega Millions increased the drawing's pool of numbers. The odds of hitting the jackpot, which were 1 in 176 million, are now 1 in 259 million.You have more than 1,000 times better chance of an asteroid or comet killing you -- and that's using the longest estimated odds for the celestial bodies -- according to Tulane University."Winning the Mega Millions is akin to getting struck by lightning at the same time you're being eaten by a shark," Todd Northrop, founder of Lotterypost.com, told CNN.Previously, lottery players chose five numbers, ranging from 1 to 56. It's now 1 to 75, but the sixth, gold ball has fewer numbers from which to choose, as the pool decreased from 46 to 15.Mega Millions tickets are sold in 43 states -- all but Alabama, Alaska, Hawaii, Mississippi, Nevada, Utah and Wyoming -- plus the District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands.