Story highlights Federal investigators have all but eliminated mechanical problems as the causeNTSB: Engineer did not dim lights, as required, when his train passed anotherFour people died and dozens were injured in the December 1 accidentThe NTSB continues to rule out mechanical causes in a deadly Bronx train crash while adding to the possibility that human error was involved.Federal safety investigators have all but eliminated mechanical problems as the cause of the December 1 derailment but added one more clue suggesting the engineer might not have been as attentive as he should have been.At 7:11 a.m. that Sunday -- about 11 minutes before the derailment -- the engineer did not dim the train's headlights as required when it passed another train, the National Transportation Safety Board said Monday.Engineer William Rockefeller Jr. acknowledged to investigators having a lapse in attention as the train approached a sharp curve, according Rockefeller's lawyer, Jeffrey Chartier, and his union representative. The train's motion might have caused him to nod off -- a case of what the lawyer termed "highway hypnosis."Four people died and dozens were injured when the train, traveling at about 82 miles per hour, derailed on the curve, which has a 30 mph limit.Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Repair efforts are under way Tuesday, December 3, at the site of a recent train derailment in the Bronx. At least four people were killed and more than 60 people were injured after a Metro-North passenger train derailed Sunday, December 1, about 10 miles north of Manhattan's Grand Central Terminal. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Cranes lift derailed train cars on Monday, December 2. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – First responders gather around the derailment on December 1. Of eight train cars, seven were off the tracks. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – First responders and others work at the scene of the derailed train December 1. The train came off the tracks just as it was coming around a sharp curve. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – A train car lies on its side after derailing December 1. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – "The windows broke out. ... The gravel came flying up in our faces," said passenger Amanda Swanson, who put her bag in front of her face to block the rubble. "I really didn't know if I would survive," she said. "The train felt like it was on its side and dragging for a long time. ... The whole thing felt like slow motion." Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Firefighters and rescue personnel work at the scene of the derailment. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Passengers walk away from the scene. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – A person is evacuated from the scene of the derailment. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Cars from the train are scattered across the tracks. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, right, arrives on the scene December 1. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Firefighters and emergency rescuers swarm the scene, near the Spuyten Duyvil station in the Bronx. One car was just feet away from the Harlem River. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Injured people are tended to by first responders. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – The train operator -- who is among the injured -- told investigators he applied brakes to the train, but it didn't slow down, a law enforcement official on the scene and familiar with the investigation said. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Police divers were in the Harlem River hours after the crash searching for survivors, CNN affiliate WABC reported. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Cuomo inspects the damage along with emergency crews. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – Emergency crews work at the scene of the wreck. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Photos: Bronx train derailment Bronx train derailment – First responders gather at the scene of the derailment. Hide Caption 18 of 18JUST WATCHED Expert: 'Black boxes will hold answer' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Expert: 'Black boxes will hold answer' 05:32JUST WATCHED Son: Our father was more than a victim Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Son: Our father was more than a victim 06:56The NTSB said Monday it believes that positive train control, a high-tech system that targets human error, could have prevented the crash. The safety board has pushed the system for about 20 years. Congress is requiring most major railroads, including Metro-North, to install the costly systems by the end of 2015.The NTSB said it has completed its inspection of the train and found no anomalies.The "dead-man" switch -- a foot pedal that must be depressed to keep the train moving -- was also working, the board said. Nor did it find problems with speed sensors, the brake control unit or the train's propulsion controller.The board reiterated that it found no problems with the tracks or the signal system.Finally, the board said it conducted a "site/distance" test and found no problems with visibility."As a result, at this time, the NTSB believes that if positive train control technology was installed on this line and train, it would have required the engineer to slow the train to an appropriate speed or stop the train in the event the engineer did not do so, likely preventing the derailment," the board said in a statement.Investigators are still awaiting results of crew drug tests and cellphone records, the board said, and it is continuing interviews with passengers, Metro-North employees who were riding on the train and first responders.