Story highlights The Arizona Division of Forestry has been hit with penalties related to the deaths of 19 firefightersThe $559,000 fine was levied by state occupational health and safety officialsIt included a $25,000 fine for each firefighter killed in the Yarnel Hill FireThe state forestry division has 15 days to appeal the citationsThe Arizona Division of Forestry has been fined $559,000 for workplace violations during the Yarnell Hill fire that left 19 elite firefighters dead, state health and safety officials said Wednesday.The state forestry division has 15 days to appeal the citations, which accuse the organization of mismanaging the fire when it failed to prioritize the safety of firefighters over the protection of non-defensible structures and property.It also accuses the state forestry division of failing to develop the necessary action plans and fire analysis to combat the wildfire as well as failing to provide necessary and key incident command personnel."There are lessons that can be learned from this horrible tragedy and we owe it to the firefighters who died, and to those that risked their lives fighting the Yarnell Hill Fire, to do so," Bill Warren, director of the Arizona Division of Occupational Safety and Health, said in a written statement.The $559,000 fine is the largest handed down by the occupational safety and health division. It includes a penalty of $25,000 for each firefighter killed on June 30Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Nineteen firefighters, part of an elite group called the Hotshots, died while battling a wildfire about 85 miles northwest of Phoenix on Sunday, June 30. Here are the 19 victims: Andrew Ashcraft, 29. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Robert Caldwell, 23. Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Travis Carter, 31. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Dustin DeFord, 24. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Chris MacKenzie, 30. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Eric Marsh, 43. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Grant McKee, 21. Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Sean Misner, 26. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Scott Norris, 28. Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Wade Parker, 22. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – John Percin, 24. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Jesse Steed, 36. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Anthony Rose, 23. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Joe Thurston, 32. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Travis Turbyfill, 27. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – William Warneke, 25. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Clayton Whitted, 28. Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Kevin Woyjeck, 21. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: The Arizona firefighter victims The Arizona firefighter victims – Garret Zuppiger, 27. Hide Caption 19 of 19Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – A hearse carrying the body of Christopher MacKenzie arrives at Los Alamitos Air Field, California, on July 10. MacKenzie was one of the 19 firefighters who lost their lives when they became trapped and their position overrun by flames from the Yarnell Hill Fire, southwest of Prescott on June 30. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – The memorial ramp ceremony in Los Alamitos honors two of the fallen Granite Mountain Hotshot crew members, Kevin Woyjeck and Christopher MacKenzie, on July 10. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – A woman wears a painted "19" in memory of the firefighters during a memorial service in Prescott Valley, July 9. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – An honor guard presents a family member with an American flag during a memorial service in Prescott Valley, Arizona, on Tuesday, July 9. Nineteen members of the Granite Mountain Hotshots died Sunday, June 30, battling the Yarnell Hill wildfire. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Chaplain Bob Ossler, right, hugs people at the Prescott Valley, Arizona, memorial service on July 9, honoring the fallen firefighters of the Yarnell Hill Fire. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Citizens of Prescott, Arizona, welcome home the bodies of the 19 firefighters on Sunday, June 7. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Nineteen white hearses carried the remains of the firefighters on July 7. They were accompanied by police motorcycle outriders on a final journey passing through the crew's hometown. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – A fire truck travels as part of the procession under escort by the Joint Arizona Honor Guard. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – An aerial view shows the procession on the 100-mile trip from the Medical Examiner's office in Phoenix to the firefighters' home base in Prescott on July 7. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Mourners grieve as they welcome home the procession. The firefighters died after deploying emergency shelters as the fast-moving forest fire suddenly changed direction on June 30. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Firefighter Sean Kauffman pays his respects at a makeshift memorial outside the Granite Mountain Interagency Hotshot Crew fire station in Prescott, Arizona, on Thursday, July 4. Kauffman is a former member of the elite firefighting crew. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – A firefighter's helmet from a Texas volunteer department hangs on a fence at a makeshift memorial to the fallen Granite Mountain Hotshots in Prescott on July 4. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Stephen Grady reads some of the notes left at the Granite Mountain Interagency Hotshot Crew fire station in Prescott on Tuesday, July 2. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Family members of victims hug as they arrive at a vigil at Prescott High School on July 2. The elite team members' deaths on Sunday, June 30, marked the deadliest day for U.S. firefighters since the 9/11 attacks. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – People attend a candlelight vigil at Prescott High School on July 2. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – People hold up lights and candles on July 2. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – People gather at a memorial service for the firefighters at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott on Monday, July 1. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Photos: Remembering Arizona firefighters Remembering the Arizona firefighters – Local firefighters embrace on July 1 at a memorial service in Prescott. Hide Caption 18 of 18The state forestry division did not immediately respond to the findings.The Yarnell Hill Fire, which is considered the deadliest in state history, began June 28 when lightning strikes started several fires, according to the state forestry division.Hundreds of homes and other buildings were destroyed in the wildfire that began near Yarnell, a community of about 600 people northwest of Phoenix, authorities said at the time.The findings of the occupational safety and health division appeared to contradict, at least in part, the finding of a state forestry division investigation that was released in September.That report concluded there was "no indication of negligence, reckless actions, or violations of policy or protocol."On June 30, driven by fierce winds, the fire turned and overran the hot shot crew, authorities said.The fast-moving fire cut off the crew's evacuation route and its path to a safety zone, according to the state forestry division report."They were deploying fire shelters when the fire overtook them," it said.Temperatures exceeded 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit, and "the deployment site was not survivable," the report said.The deaths of the 19 members of the Granite Mountain Interagency Hotshot Crew represented about 20 percent of Prescott's fire departmentKilled, according to officials, were: Eric Marsh, the unit's 43-year-old superintendent; Andrew Ashcraft, 29; Robert Caldwell, 23; Travis Carter, 31; Dustin Deford, 24; Christopher MacKenzie, 30; Grant McKee, 21; Sean Misner, 26; Scott Norris, 28; Wade Parker, 22; John Percin, 24; Anthony Rose, 23; Jesse Steed, 36; Joe Thurston, 32; Travis Turbyfill, 27; William Warneke, 25; Clayton Whitted, 28; Kevin Woyjeck, 21; and Garret Zuppiger, 27.