Story highlights NASA says the space station and crew were never in any dangerA cooling pump shut down after hitting a temperature limitAn emergency spacewalk could be necessary, but it's too soon to tellNASA scaled back operations on the International Space Station on Wednesday after discovering a problem with a cooling system.A pump on one of the station's two external cooling loops shut down after hitting a temperature limit, NASA said.Teams worked to get the cooling loop back up and running, NASA said. Experts suspect a malfunctioning valve may have caused the problem, but they're still trying to figure out how to fix it.The station and crew aboard were never in any danger, NASA said.Officials could determine that an emergency spacewalk is the best way to fix the failed pump -- something they've done in the past.NASA said Thursday that there has been no decision on the spacewalk, and it may be a couple of days before the decision is made, according to Kenny Todd, the ISS mission management team chairman.Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The crew of the space shuttle Atlantis took this picture of the International Space Station after leaving it in July 2011. Atlantis was the last shuttle to visit the station, which was first launched in 1998 and built by a partnership of 16 nations. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The crew of the space shuttle Endeavour initiates the station's first assembly sequence in 1998. The International Space Station includes several large modules, each launched separately and connected in space by astronauts. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The Zarya control module, on the left with the solar panels, floats above Earth with its newly attached Unity module after the first assembly sequence in December 1998. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The first crew of the International Space Station, seen on board in December 2000. From the left are cosmonaut Yuri P. Gidzenko, astronaut William M. Shepherd and cosmonaut Sergei K. Krikalev. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The Endeavour crew installs the first set of U.S. solar arrays on the station in 2000. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station In March 2001, a space shuttle delivered the station's second crew and brought the first one home. It also brought Leonardo, the station's first Multi-Purpose Logistics Module, to the station. Leonardo carried supplies and equipment. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station In September 2006, the space shuttle Atlantis docked with the space station, delivering solar wings and a new truss. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The space shuttle Discovery leaves the space station in March 2008 after its crew successfully delivered and installed the Japanese-built Kibo lab. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The unmanned SpaceX Dragon spacecraft connects to the space station in May 2012. It was the first private spacecraft to successfully reach an orbiting space station. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station An unmanned Russian cargo craft disconnects from the space station in April 2013. The station relies heavily on ships to bring up supplies. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station Commander Koichi Wakata of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency peers out of the space station's Cupola observatory on April 27. The Cupola is a dome-shaped module that allows station crew members to observe and guide activities outside the station. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station A Russian Soyuz spacecraft is docked with the space station on May 5. Since the U.S. shuttle program ended in 2011, all crew members are ferried to and from the space station on Russian rockets. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station A Soyuz spacecraft is seen on May 13 as it lands in Kazakhstan with Wakata and other members of the his Expedition 39 crew. Hide Caption 13 of 13The external cooling loops are systems that circulate ammonia outside the station to keep equipment cool.Officials discovered the malfunctioning loop was producing too much ammonia Wednesday morning, NASA spokesman Josh Byerly said.Teams have shut down some noncritical systems on the station as a result of the problem, NASA said.The space station's life support system is still up and running.The current mission of the space station, officially called Expedition 38, is scheduled to go until March 2014.The six-person crew consists of NASA astronauts Mike Hopkins and Rick Mastracchio of the United States; Russians Mikhail Tyurin, Sergey Ryazanskiy and Oleg Kotov; and Koichi Wakata of Japan.