Story highlights A series of tornadoes hit Midwest on November 17His town of Washington, Illinois, was badly hitThere were 76 reported tornadoesYou don't find too many happy stories in the aftermath of a tornado, but Spc. Jacob Montgomery is telling one.He was one of many Midwesterners holding on for dear life this month as a spate of deadly tornadoes rumbled through.Hundreds of families had their lives altered when 76 reported tornadoes hit. At least eight people lost their lives.Montgomery's apartment in Washington, Illinois, was turned to rubble on November 17. And to make matters worse, he could not find his pitbull puppy, Dexter.Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Washington, Illinois, sits in ruins on Monday, November 18, the day after a severe tornado ripped through the community. A fast-moving storm system that produced several tornadoes left behind a path of destruction across the Midwest. Hide Caption 1 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – An aerial photo taken on November 18 shows tornado-damaged homes in Washington, Illinois. Hide Caption 2 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Stacy Broniak and neighborhood firefighter Todd Woolf look for medication and oxygen supplies at the home Stacy's grandmother in Kokomo, Indiana, on Sunday, November 17. Hide Caption 3 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – An overturned car rests in a pile of rubble about a mile northeast of Washington, Illinois, on November 17. Washington is in central Illinois, east of Peoria. Hide Caption 4 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Maranda Souders picks up a crystal bowl and cup while searching through debris from her grandmother's home in Brookport, Illinois, after a tornado hit the small town in far southern part of the state on November 17. Hide Caption 5 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – A stuffed animal lies in the road in Brookport, Illinois, on November 17. Hide Caption 6 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Firefighters survey the damage at Mintonye Elementary School in Lafayette, Indiana, on November 17. A series of strong thunderstorms pounded Tippecanoe County, northwest of Indianapolis, on Sunday. Hide Caption 7 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – The south wall was ripped off the gymnasium at Southwestern Middle School in Lafayette, Indiana, on November 17. Hide Caption 8 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – The roof was torn off this classroom at Southwestern Middle School in Lafayette, Indiana, on November 17. Hide Caption 9 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – A firefighter works to clear a tree from a street in Brookport, Illinois, on November 17. Hide Caption 10 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – An elderly woman is escorted through tornado debris in Brookport, Illinois, on November 17. Hide Caption 11 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Dave Huffman sorts through his belongings in the living room of his destroyed home in Kokomo, Indiana, on November 17. Kokomo is almost 60 miles north of Indianapolis, the state capital. Hide Caption 12 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – The roof of a building sits in the middle of the road in Kokomo, Indiana, on November 17. Hide Caption 13 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – A car sits among the debris of a leveled home in Kokomo, Indiana, on November 17. Hide Caption 14 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Ray Baughman embraces family shortly after his home was destroyed by a tornado south of Peoria in Pekin, Illinois, on November 17. Hide Caption 15 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – A firefighter, in lower center of photo, peers down into the home of a colleague whose home was destroyed when a tornado swept through Washington, Illinois, on November 17. Hide Caption 16 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Firefighters look over damage to trailers at Summit Village, east of Marion, Indiana, after storms blew through Marion and Grant County, northeast of Indianapolis, on November 17. Hide Caption 17 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – The Irvington Post Office is badly damaged after heavy rain and high winds hit Indianapolis on November 17. Hide Caption 18 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Volunteers try to reposition the HVAC unit on top of Heritage Primary Elementary School in Wentzville, Missouri, on November 17. Board members, staff and teachers came to the school to help with the cleanup after a storm tore off parts of the roof. Wentzville is about 40 miles west of St. Louis. Hide Caption 19 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Richard Miller salvages items from his brother's home in Washington, Illinois, on November 17. Hide Caption 20 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Corn husks fly through the air as Eric Crawford checks his mail after the storm passed in rural Orchard Farm, Missouri, on November 17. Hide Caption 21 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Firefighters stretch caution tape around the New Life Tabernacle Church in Paducah, Kentucky, on November 17. Hide Caption 22 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – A fallen tree blocks traffic on November 17 in Marion, Indiana. Hide Caption 23 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Water shoots from broken pipes after part of a wall and roof collapsed on November 17 at the Dollar General distribution center east of Marion, Indiana. Hide Caption 24 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Tornado victims sift through an overturned mobile home in Brookport, Illinois, on November 17. A tornado ripped through the small town in southern Illinois. Hide Caption 25 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – A home is damaged by a tree that was uprooted during the storm in Pekin on November 17. Pekin is part of the cluster of towns in central Illinois hit hard by the severe weather. Hide Caption 26 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Chuck Phillips looks out at the destruction that tore off part of his roof and destroyed homes in his neighborhood on November 17 in Pekin. Hide Caption 27 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – A police officer talks with a resident in Pekin after a tornado touched down in the area on November 17. Hide Caption 28 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – An apartment manager warns Illinois State University students to stay back from a roof that blew off "The U" student apartments in Normal, Illinois, on November 17. Hide Caption 29 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Firefighters stand in the middle of the street after a tornado leveled at homes in Washington, Illinois, on November 17. Hide Caption 30 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – People survey storm damage on November 17 in Hustisford, Wisconsin, which is northwest of Milwaukee. Hide Caption 31 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Billy Vestal evacuates his home in East Peoria, Illinois, with his 3-year-old daughter, Lillian Vestal, after a tornado damaged the area on November 17. Hide Caption 32 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – An Ameren Illinois utility worker walks past homes looking for gas and electrical hazards in Washington, Illinois, on November 17. Hide Caption 33 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – A damaged cattle shed sits on a family farm in Hustisford, Wisconsin, on November 17. Dodge County Emergency Management Director Joseph Meagher says no cattle were injured. Hide Caption 34 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Josh Ramsey recovers items from the house of a family friend after a tornado tore through the north end of Pekin, Illinois, on November 17. Hide Caption 35 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Members of Soldier Field's ground crew prepare the field to resume play after a severe storm blew through the area on November 17 and suspended play during the first half of the game between the Chicago Bears and Baltimore Ravens. Hide Caption 36 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Fans begin to clear the stands during the rain and high winds at Soldier Field in Chicago on November 17. Hide Caption 37 of 38 Photos: Photos: Severe weather slams Midwest Severe weather slams Midwest – Baltimore Ravens players leave the field after the game was delayed on November 17. Hide Caption 38 of 38His training helped him deal with a lot of things, he said, but not that."As a National Guardsman, you train to respond to emergencies all the time, but I never really had it happen to me," said Montgomery, who has been a military police officer with the Illinois Army National Guard for more than five years.For days, he scoured the wreckage looking for Dexter, unsuccessfully. Then he got a phone call from his neighbor Tuesday.A rescue group had found Dexter buried under a pile of rubble near Montgomery's apartment, the neighbor told him.They coaxed him out of the mess using hot dogs."I am lucky. All I had in my apartment is gone, but my dog was all I really had to worry about," Montgomery said.Montgomery is living at a friend's house while he looks for a new place to stay.But at least he has Dexter.