Story highlights Big Bear search continues even though suspect has not been seen thereMurder charge filed against Christopher Dorner in cop's deathA "no bail" warrant "allows him to be apprehended anywhere," prosecutor saysAuthorities are offering a $1 million reward for information leading to an arrestAs the manhunt for the renegade ex-cop accused of killing three people in a revenge plot targeting the Los Angeles Police Department enters its second week, the big question facing authorities is: Where is Christopher Jordan Dorner?The search, considered one of the largest in the history of Southern California, has taken authorities from Orange County to the border of Mexico, from Los Angeles to the Big Bear Lake resort area of the San Bernardino Mountains.Even so, a week after Dorner allegedly began targeting police officers and their families, putting the region on edge, there was no sign of the man on Monday.A "no bail" arrest warrant was issued for Dorner after the Riverside County district attorney filed a murder charge Monday against him in the killing of Riverside Police Officer Michael Crain."That allows him to be apprehended anywhere within California, out of state or out of the country," District Attorney Paul Zellerbach told reporters at a news conference Monday.The murder charge is accompanied by two "special circumstances," including killing a police officer on duty and firing a weapon from a vehicle, Zellerbach said.Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Photos: Manhunt for Christopher Dorner – Detectives investigate the scene where officers fired on a vehicle they believed was Christopher Dorner's on February 7, in Torrance, California. Two people in the truck were wounded. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – An employee of Southern California Edison surveys the damage at the burned-out cabin where the remains of multiple-murder suspect and former Los Angeles Police Department officer Christopher Dorner were found on Friday, February 15, in Big Bear, California. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – A statue of an angel stands on a wood column in front of the burned cabin on February 15. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – An evidence flag placed by San Bernardino County Sheriff's crime scene investigators sits on pile of rubble in the burned cabin on February 15. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Cindy Bachman, public information officer for the San Bernardino Sheriff's Department, updates the media after a standoff and a shootout with Dorner on Tuesday, February 12. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Police search cars at a blockade as they come down off the mountain during a manhunt for Dorner on February 12. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Cindy Bachman, information officers for the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department, speaks to reporters at a roadblock near Big Bear Lake, California, on Tuesday, February 12. Christopher Jordan Dorner has been the subject of a massive manhunt and is accused of killing one police officer and wounding two others, as well as killing the daughter of his police union representative and her fiance on Sunday. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Authorities take positions during the manhunt for former LAPD officer Christopher Jordan Dorner near the town of Angelus Oaks, California, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – San Bernardino County Sheriff SWAT team members return to the command post at Bear Mountain in Big Bear Lake, California, on Friday, February 8, after heavy snow hindered the manhunt for ex-LAPD cop Christopher Jordan Dorner. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Officers keep watch outside of the Twin Towers Jail in response to an unconfirmed sighting of Dorner in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Officers investigate the burned out truck of Christopher Jordan Dorner that was discovered at the base of Bear Mountain Ski Resort in Big Bear Lake, California, on Thursday, February 7. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Department of Homeland Security officers search vehicles at the San Ysidro Port of Entry in San Diego on February 7 as they search for former LAPD officer Christopher Dorner. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck speaks at a press conference about the manhunt for Dorner as photos of the suspect stand in the background on February 7. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – An illuminated sign at San Diego State University along Interstate 8 displays information about Dorner's last known vehicle on February 7. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – San Diego Harbor Police officers near Naval Base Point Loma armed with high-powered firearms walk along a street on February 7 in San Diego. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Investigators inspect a bullet-ridden squad car where a police officer was shot on Magnolia Avenue in Corona, California on February 7. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Police stand guard near a LAPD car where a police officer was shot on Magnolia Avenue as officers across the state remain on high alert. Hide Caption 17 of 17JUST WATCHED Mayor: Dorner will be brought to justice Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mayor: Dorner will be brought to justice 02:02JUST WATCHED Accused killer's military skills Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Accused killer's military skills 03:32JUST WATCHED Track the events leading up to manhunt Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Track the events leading up to manhunt 01:51Dorner was also charged with the attempted murder of three other police officers, including a Riverside officer who was wounded when Crain was killed. That officer, whose name has not been made public, is in a lot of pain and faces "many surgeries," Riverside Police Chief Sergio Diaz said.The other two charges accuse Dorner of opening fire on two LAPD police officers, wounding one, in the suburb of Corona.Los Angeles police spokesman Lt. Andy Neiman said the department had received more than 700 tips on Dorner's whereabouts. Some of the calls have come from Dorner's past acquaintances or people who think they have spotted the fugitive.The city of Los Angeles put up $1 million in reward money Sunday for help catching Dorner, an announcement that followed news that the LAPD was reopening the case that resulted in his termination.Dorner accused his training officer of kicking a mentally ill man during an arrest in 2007. The LAPD ruled the complaint unfounded and booted Dorner off the force for filing a false complaint. He challenged his firing in court and lost.In a manifesto released last week, Dorner blamed racism and corruption in the LAPD for his termination and vowed to wage "unconventional and asymmetrical warfare" against LAPD officers and their families. He called it a "last resort" to clear his name and strike back at a department he says mistreated him.LAPD Chief Charlie Beck had a different term for it Sunday."This is an act -- and make no mistake about it -- of domestic terrorism," he told reporters Sunday during a televised news conference. "This is a man who has targeted those that we entrust to protect the public. His actions cannot go unanswered."Targeting policeAuthorities say Dorner began making good on his threats on February 4 when he allegedly killed Monica Quan and her fiance, Keith Lawrence, in an Irvine parking lot, south of Los Angeles.Quan was the daughter of a now-retired Los Angeles police officer, who represented Dorner during the disciplinary hearing that resulted in his firing. The officer was among dozens named in the manifesto.The retired officer told investigators that he received a call from someone identifying himself as Dorner who told him he "should have done a better job of protecting his daughter," according to a federal arrest warrant affidavit. Investigators traced the call to Vancouver, Washington, but based on the timing of other sightings, they don't believe Dorner was in Vancouver at the time, the affidavit states.Days later, early Thursday morning, Dorner allegedly opened fire on two LAPD police officers, wounding one, in the suburban city of Corona.Roughly 20 minutes later, Dorner allegedly fired on two officers in the nearby city of Riverside, killing one and wounding another. On Sunday, authorities identified the slain officer as Michael Crain, an 11-year veteran of the Riverside Police Department.Since then, the LAPD has provided more than 50 police officers and their families -- many of whom were named in the manifesto -- with security and surveillance details.Additionally, the LAPD is no longer releasing the police chief's schedule to the public or the media.Beck refused to discuss whether Dorner had been observed in the neighborhoods of any of those named in the manifesto, but added: "You fish where the fish are, and Mr. Dorner has made his intentions very clear."In recent days, the search for the 270-pound, 6-foot Dorner has been focused on the Big Bear Lake area, where authorities say his burning truck was discovered last week after he allegedly began carrying out his threats to kill police and their family members.Search continuesThe search in Big Bear continued Monday night into Tuesday morning, the San Bernardino County sheriff's department said. About 30 officers are searching for Dorner, police said.There have been no sightings of Dorner in the Big Bear area, the news release said.There has been speculation, based in part on an arrest warrant affidavit filed last week, that Dorner could have crossed state lines into Nevada or made his way to Mexico.Federal authorities, meanwhile, were asking anyone across the country with information about Dorner or his whereabouts to contact their local FBI or U.S. Marshals Service."Should any citizen have information, I encourage you to make that phone call," said Bill L. Lewis, the assistant director of the FBI's Los Angeles division.Police were also chasing down unconfirmed sightings of Dorner, including one Sunday in the San Fernando Valley after two people reported seeing someone who resembled the former police officer inside a Lowes home improvement store.The store in Northridge was evacuated, but there was no sign of Dorner.The LAPD, meanwhile, also beefed up security at the Grammy Awards on Sunday "out of an abundance of caution," police Cmdr. Andy Smith said.'Ghosts' of the LAPD's pastIt's Dorner's allegations of racism at the LAPD that led Beck over the weekend to reopen the investigation into his claims.Beck said he was not doing it to "appease a murderer" but out of concern that Dorner's allegations will resurrect a painful part of the department's history.For years, the LAPD was dogged by complaints of racism and corruption. In 1965 and 1992, the city was rocked by racial riots that were sparked, in part, by claims of police racism and brutality."I hear the same things you hear: The ghosts of the past of the Los Angeles Police Department," Beck said Sunday. "I hear that people think maybe there is something to what he says, and I want to put that to rest."Despite numerous reviews of Dorner's case, he said it has "never been reviewed by me.""If there is anything new, we will deal with it, and we will deal with it in a public way," Beck said.