Story highlights The death toll from the weekend blizzard in the Northeast rises to 11"We're all buried," Bridgeport, Connecticut, Mayor Bill Finch saysMonday brings warmer temperatures and the threat of collapsing roofsA cold front moves into the Southeast; at least 15 tornadoes are reportedA major winter storm whipped the Upper Midwest early Monday, just after a historic snowfall buried much of the Northeast.The latest blizzard dumped 8 to 15 inches of snow across parts of seven states but saved most of its fury for the Dakotas and Minnesota, the National Weather Service said. Snow showers and blowing snow were expected to linger Monday across the area.More than 1,000 miles away, residents of the Northeast spent the weekend digging out from a storm that dumped several feet of snow across the region.In the Southeast, at least 15 tornadoes formed across southern Mississippi and Alabama on Sunday afternoon as a cold front moved in. Major damage was caused by a tornado that struck Hattiesburg, Mississippi. The Mobile, Alabama, National Weather Service Office was to begin conducting damage surveys Monday.Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Sean McCullough, left, plays with his children in Copley Square in Boston on Sunday, February 10, following a powerful blizzard. The storm dumped more than two feet of snow in parts of New England. Hide Caption 1 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man walks by a storefront behind large snowdrifts on Boylston Street in Boston on February 10. Hide Caption 2 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman walks past a man clearing snow from a sidewalk on February 10 in Boston. Hide Caption 3 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man walks past snow banks in the Back Bay neighborhood on February 10 in Boston. Hide Caption 4 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snowmen made from backstage lamps, paper rolls and water bottle caps stand outside the rest area during Fashion Week in New York on February 10. Hide Caption 5 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow blankets Copley Square on Saturday, February 9, in Boston. Hide Caption 6 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People walk and sled through a snowy Prospect Park in Brooklyn, New York, on Saturday. Hide Caption 7 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People attempt to push a stuck vehicle in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 8 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A boy pulls a sled through a snowy Prospect Park in Brooklyn on Saturday. Hide Caption 9 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A boy snowboards in Boston Common on Saturday. Hide Caption 10 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People play in the snow in New York's Central Park on Saturday. Hide Caption 11 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A young woman jumps down from snow piled in front of the Massachusetts State House after posing for a photo in Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 12 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man walks along a snow-covered trail in Central Park on Saturday. Hide Caption 13 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A child tubes down snow-covered stairs in Central Park on Saturday. Hide Caption 14 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Emmet's on Beacon Street is covered in snow in Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 15 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A front loader and truck drive down Warren Street in the Brighton neighborhood on Saturday in Boston. Hide Caption 16 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People walk along the Brooklyn Bridge following a major winter storm on Saturday in New York City. Possible record-setting blizzard conditions are expected with heavy snow warnings in effect from New Jersey through southern Maine. Hide Caption 17 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – The sculpture "Double Check" by John Seward Johnson II is seen in Zuccotti Park following a major winter storm on Saturday in New York City on Saturday. Hide Caption 18 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People walk along a street devoid of snow due to ocean flooding Saturday in Winthrop, Massachusetts. Coastal flooding is expected as the storm lingers into the day. Hide Caption 19 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A person walks through the snow in an alley in Hoboken, New Jersey, on Saturday. Hide Caption 20 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Children carry a sled through the Financial District in New York City on Saturday. Hide Caption 21 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Saniyyah Phillips, 8, scrapes the snow off of the top of her father's car in the Brighton neighborhood of Boston on Friday. Hide Caption 22 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow covers a sidewalk and building awning in Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 23 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Josephine Sipayung and her son Eric, 6, sled down an empty street past snow-covered vehicles in Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 24 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow-covered vehicles sit on Commonwealth Avenue in the Brighton neighborhood of Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 25 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A worker carries a snow shovel across the Ground Zero construction sight on Saturday in New York. Hide Caption 26 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman walks through the snow as a worker clears snow from a sidewalk in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston. Hide Caption 27 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow gathers on shoes hung from power lines in the Lower East Side of New York City. Hide Caption 28 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Mary Leahy shovels her sidewalk in Medford, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 29 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Paul DeCarlo uses a snow blower to clear the walk in front of his house in Greenfield, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 30 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man walks through snowy Central Park in New York. Hide Caption 31 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Mike Streeter shovels snow in his front yard as ocean water crashes over the sea wall just feet away on February 9 in Winthrop, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 32 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A pair of cows feed in the snow at Eden Pond Farm in Leyden, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 33 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A child drags his toboggan up a hill in Central Park. Hide Caption 34 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman walks in Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 35 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Phoebe Lightburn, 9, makes a snow angel in Central Park in New York. Hide Caption 36 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man shovels snow along Winthrop Shore Drive in Winthrop, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 37 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A cyclist rides through the snow in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston. Hide Caption 38 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow blankets Boston on February 9. Hide Caption 39 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Pedestrians shield themselves from blowing snow as a blizzard arrives in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston on Friday, February 8. Hide Caption 40 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Two women look for a taxi in snow-covered Times Square on February 8. Hide Caption 41 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A food vendor stands under his cart as snow falls in Times Square. Hide Caption 42 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man shovels snow in front of the Apple store in New York on February 8. Hide Caption 43 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People wait for a taxi in the snow in Times Square. Hide Caption 44 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A pedestrian makes his way through driving snow with a broken umbrella in the Back Bay neighborhood on Friday, February 8 in Boston. Hide Caption 45 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A fashion week attendee makes her way through the snow in high-heeled shoes on Friday. Hide Caption 46 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow is cleared in front of Boston Public Library on Friday. Hide Caption 47 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – New York City residents cross a street covered in slush on Friday during a storm affecting the Northeast on Friday. Hide Caption 48 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman walks through the snow past Copley Square on Friday in Boston. Massachusetts and other states from New York to Maine are preparing for a major blizzard with possible record amounts of snowfall in some areas. Hide Caption 49 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A snowplow sits on the street while snow falls near Boston Common on Friday. Hide Caption 50 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People walk through Times Square as a major winter storm moves in on Friday. Hide Caption 51 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A snowman sits on the duck pond in the Boston Common. Hide Caption 52 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman hails a taxi as snow and freezing rain fall over Midtown Manhattan as the city braced for the major storm on Friday. Hide Caption 53 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man operates a snow blower in the Back Bay neighborhood on Friday in Boston. Hide Caption 54 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Memorial Drive sits empty following a driving ban and state of emergency that was issued in Boston on Friday. Hide Caption 55 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Pedestrians battle wind, snow and sleet in Manhattan on Friday. Hide Caption 56 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People walk through the snow in Boston's Back Bay neighborhood on Friday. Hide Caption 57 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Bicyclists wait at a light in wind, snow and sleet on Friday. Hide Caption 58 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – This umbrella doesn't stand a chance in the wind-driven snow Friday in Boston as a potentially historic winter storm closes in on the Northeast , especially New England. Hide Caption 59 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Jeannine Strampel walks through the snow past a statue of Alexander Hamilton along Commonwealth Avenue Mall on February 8. Hide Caption 60 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Jerry Trebino loads sand onto the back of a snowplow February 8 in Wrentham, Massachusetts. The storm is expected to spawn travel headaches for a large swath of the region. Hide Caption 61 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman battles her way to the subway in Boston on February 8. Hide Caption 62 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Skiing seems like a good idea as snow begins to fall in Boston on February 8. Hide Caption 63 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman struggles with her umbrella in New York's Financial District on February 8. Accumulations of up to a foot of snow are expected in the Big Apple. Hide Caption 64 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Ines Cuadrado, left, and Anne Levine trek along a snow-covered road in Middlefield, Connecticut, on February 8. Hide Caption 65 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Alfie Times shovels snow from the sidewalk outside the XL Center in Hartford, Connecticut, on February 8. Hide Caption 66 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Ricky Varona copes with the wind and precipitation February 8 in New York. Hide Caption 67 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Tourists brave the high winds in New York's Financial District on February 8. Hide Caption 68 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A sweeper clears snow in front of the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week tents on February 8 at Lincoln Center in New York. Hide Caption 69 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man walks along the promenade in Brooklyn Heights as Lower Manhattan stands in a cloud of snow and sleet in the early hours of a major winter storm on February 8. Hide Caption 70 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man walks across the Brooklyn Bridge in the snow and sleet on February 8. Hide Caption 71 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Cars are lined up outside a gas station in Queens borough of New York on February 8. Hide Caption 72 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A sign bears bad news on a fuel pump in Manhasset, New York, on February 8. Hide Caption 73 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman tries to shield herself from wind and precipitation as the beginnings of a large winter storm hits the New York area on February 8. Hide Caption 74 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow falls over Lower Manhattan in the early hours of a major winter storm on February 8. Hide Caption 75 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman tries to right her umbrella while dealing with wind and precipitation in New York on February 8. Hide Caption 76 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Two people carefully walk across the Brooklyn Bridge in the snow and sleet on February 8. Hide Caption 77 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A satellite image released by the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration on February 8, shows a large storm over the Northeastern United States. Hide Caption 78 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People walk through the blowing snow while a blizzard arrives in the Back Bay neighborhood on February 8 in Boston. Hide Caption 79 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard `Northeast blizzard – A man operates a snowblower while a blizzard arrives in the Back Bay neighborhood in Boston on February 8. Hide Caption 80 of 81 Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A sign warns drivers along Interstate 495 of a blizzard watch in Franklin, Massachusetts, on Thursday, February 7. Hide Caption 81 of 81JUST WATCHED Blizzard bombards Northeast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Blizzard bombards Northeast 02:08JUST WATCHED Girl gets super excited about snow Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Girl gets super excited about snow 01:03JUST WATCHED Streets left to skiers in Boston snow Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Streets left to skiers in Boston snow 02:00According to Storm Prediction Center reports, nearly 70 people were injured in Sunday's storms, with at least 61 of those in Hattiesburg.North begins recoveryIn the Northeast, the heavy snow that fell over the weekend was still causing problems Monday. Scott Devico, a spokesman for the Connecticut Department of Emergency Management, said Monday the roofs of 16 homes and buildings had collapsed because of the weight of the snow piled atop them.The storm's toll rose to 11 when a man and woman were found dead in a car in Meriden, apparently due to carbon monoxide poisoning, Devico said. Five of the nine other fatalities were in Connecticut, along with one in New York, one in Massachusetts and two in the Canadian province of Ontario.In Bridgeport, Connecticut, Mayor Bill Finch said the city had gotten some 30 inches of snow. As of Monday morning, 10% to 20% of it had been plowed, with the city's main roads expected to be cleared by Tuesday morning, secondary roads by Thursday and Friday, and residential streets by Sunday, he said.Bridgeport is no special case. "I've talked to other mayors; we're all buried," he said.National Guard soldiers were helping pick up emergency-center workers and retrieve operators for pay loaders, he said.Abandoned cars were making the task difficult. "The plows can't get through; pay loaders have to work surgically to try and remove these cars and get the streets cleared," Finch said.On Sunday night, he said, only two tow trucks were available to the city; the rest were snowed in. By Monday, six tow trucks were operating, he said.Alternative forms of transportation weren't much better. "It took me 40 minutes to walk four blocks from my house to the Emergency Operations Center," he said.About 200 people were in shelters Sunday in southeastern Connecticut, Gov. Dannel Malloy said. More than that number found refuge in schools on the South Shore of Massachusetts, where dozens of National Guard soldiers were helping local authorities and residents deal with flooding and storm damage.The Boston Globe reported that recovery efforts were in motion, and the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency dispatched eight rapid assessment teams to look at conditions in coastal communities. The paper reported that thousands of National Guard soldiers were assisting."The devastation we have seen here would lead one to believe that it'll be days before we get power back," said Jim Cantwell, a state representative for the Massachusetts towns of Marshfield and Scituate, where about 90% of customers were without power late Sunday.In Massachusetts, about 113,000 customers were still without power Monday afternoon, with the greatest concentration of outages in the southeastern and Cape regions, said Gov. Deval Patrick. "I think the utility companies have made great progress, but they need to keep making great progress," he told reporters.He pleaded with residents using generators to ensure they are properly vented. Officials have received reports of people being overcome with carbon monoxide, "a deadly and silent killer," he said.Amtrak announced that it would resume normal operations between New York and Boston beginning Tuesday. "Amtrak crews have been working around the clock to clear affected track of large amounts of snow, in excess of several fee in some cases," the rail line said in a statement.South takes hitStorms were only one aspect of the extreme weather across the Southeast as heavy rain soaked much of the region. Rain around the slow-moving cold front prompted flood watches and warnings from southeastern Louisiana to central Georgia through Tuesday afternoon.Those states could get 3 to 5 inches of rain, CNN meteorologists said.The Southeast and Gulf Coast may see severe storms Monday, with heavy rainfall and gusty winds, the Storm Prediction Center said.Warmer weatherDaytime temperatures were expected to climb Monday into the 40s in much of southern Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts, where rain may fall as well.That would help melt snow, though it could make what's there heavier and increase the risk of roof collapses. There were reports Sunday of a barn, a sports facility, commercial buildings and other buildings suffering cave-ins, Malloy said.Freezing rain will change to rain as temperatures warm in the Northeast on Monday. But overnight lows will dip below freezing, causing melted snow to refreeze on roads.A weak system will move through the area on Wednesday and will drop dustings of snow across the area, but the system should clear out by Thursday morning.The mix made for a messy Monday morning commute into cities such as Boston, though schools remained closed there and in many other locales as the snow clean-up effort continued.Flights resumed Sunday at Boston's Logan Airport and Amtrak restored limited service."We're working as hard as we can," Rhode Island Gov. Lincoln Chaffee said of efforts in his state. "We're seeing efforts every hour."Lots and lots of snowThe blizzard that began burying the Northeast on Friday was historic by many measures -- most of all, by the amount of snow that fell.In Hamden, Connecticut, for instance, 40 inches of snow made it difficult for plows to get on the roads. CNN iReporter Mia Orsatti said streets there had transformed into "white, wide, soft blanket(s) of snow."Lesser depths still led to major headaches, especially when combined with hurricane-force wind gusts, storm surges and snow drifts."There's a ton of snow, and there's nowhere to put it," said Lena Berc of Boston, where 24.9 inches fell. "So it's really frustrating to find nooks and crannies."Many still without powerAbout 270,000 utility customers were in the dark late Sunday, down from 635,000 a day earlier.The outages were the result of a combination of whipping winds and power lines sagging, and sometimes snapping, under the weight of wet snow and ice."There was a phenomenal amount of trees that went down," Cantwell said, noting that no Scituate residents had power Sunday morning and estimating it may be Thursday before all the lights are back on.For all the headaches in New England, however, many people were enjoying the wintry conditions.iReporter Filipe Pereira said students at Wentworth Institute of Technology in Boston, who were set to return to class Monday, had enjoyed the weekend storm, engaging in massive snowball fights and building snowmen everywhere. People were even skiing down one street, he said. Students earlier took a series of photographs tracking the storm over 26 hours.The streets around the small school were still a mess, but they were no longer closed."People have been going all over the roads with no problem," Pereira said.