Story highlights ESPN follows Miami newspaper with story of alleged PED distribution and use in FloridaStories, days apart, name pro baseball players, including Alex RodriguezNewspaper story is "not legitimate," rep for Rodriguez said TuesdayAnother rep says of Friday ESPN story allegations: "They are not true"Alex Rodriguez is denying any connection to a Miami man who a South Florida newspaper and ESPN reported provided the New York Yankees star with performance-enhancing drugs.The Miami New Times published a story Tuesday saying more than a dozen professional baseball players, including Rodriguez, and other athletes were named in records kept over several years by the Biogenesis clinic."The purported documents referenced in the story -- at least as they relate to Alex Rodriguez -- are not legitimate," a statement from his public relations agent said.CNN has been unable to independently obtain the documents the newspaper said it based its reporting on.Meanwhile, ESPN.com published a story Friday quoting unidentified sources as describing how the man who ran Biogenesis allegedly would go to Rodriguez's waterfront mansion when summoned and inject the star player with performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs).Photos: Sport's rogues gallery Photos: Sport's rogues gallery Another brick in the wall – For months now the world of sport has lurched from one doping crisis to another. The most high profile was Lance Armstrong's confession on Oprah that he had, after years of denials, been doping all along. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Sport's rogues gallery Not now John – Also under the spotlight have been the various regulatory bodies charged with catching drug cheats. CNN spoke to WADA president John Fahey about the on-going doping revelations in cycling. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Sport's rogues gallery Take up thy stethoscope and walk – Fahey spoke about the ongoing Operation Puerto case in Madrid. Dr. Eufemiano Fuentes is accused of running a blood doping network for many top cyclists. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Sport's rogues gallery A new machine – This week sees the testimony of Tyler Hamilton, a former teammate of Armstrong. Hamilton's book 'The Secret Race' detailed his own experiences of doping. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Sport's rogues gallery Burning bridges – WADA has long been at odds with the UCI, cycling's governing body. Former WADA president Dick Pound earned the wrath of both the UCI and Lance Armstrong during his time as World Anti-Doping Agency president after constantly questioning the use of drugs in cycling. Although Pound's views have since been fully validated, he still warns that not enough is being done to combat doping. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Sport's rogues gallery A saucerful of secrets – Despite taking over 200 drug tests, Armstrong -- seen here leaving an anti-doping control center during the 2005 Tour de France -- never recorded a positive result, prompting some to question the real nature of modern-day sport. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Sport's rogues gallery Run like hell – Cycling is far from the only sport with a doping problem. South African runner Hezekiel Sepeng (left), who won silver in the 1996 Olympic 800m final but was later banned for using an anabolic steroid, now says dopers are like "thugs, stealing from those who are clean and taking their opportunity." He currently coaches aspiring youngsters in his homeland. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Sport's rogues gallery Us and them – Ben Johnson's late coach Charlie Francis -- seen here moments after the Canadian sprinter won the 1988 Olympic 100m final -- insisted that his charge, who was later stripped of his title for drug abuse, had to dope to literally keep pace with his rivals. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Sport's rogues gallery East Germany legacy – East German swimmer Rica Reinisch shot to fame when winning three golds in the 1980 Olympics at the age of 15. To her dismay, she later learned she had been doped by the Stasi -- with testosterone-based steroids that enlarged her ovaries and caused two miscarriages. Now a mother of two, she regrets never knowing how she would have done without drugs. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Sport's rogues gallery Shine on you crazy diamond – Andreas Krieger is surely the most visible face of the government-backed East German doping program, having won gold in the women's shot put at the 1986 European Championships. Unwittingly pumped full of anabolic steroids, Heidi Krieger was so confused about her sexuality she "didn't know who (she) was anymore" -- and eventually had a sex change in 1997. Krieger is now an ardent anti-doping campaigner. Hide Caption 10 of 10That brought this response from a Rodriguez spokesman: "In regards to the new allegations made in today's ESPN Outside the Lines story, we can say that they are not true," Terry Fahn of Sitrick and Company communications said Friday."Alex is working diligently on his (physical) rehabilitation and is looking forward to getting back on the field as soon as possible."Rodriguez, 37, has admitted in the past to using performance-enhancing drugs, but he also has denied taking any after 2003. He has never been suspended by the league for a drug violation.The Miami New Times report identified other players in addition to Rodriguez as being named in handwritten notes of Anthony Bosch, chief of the Biogenesis clinic. The records, according to the report, detail the selling of banned supplements such as human growth hormone, testosterone and anabolic steroids.Major League Baseball released a statement following the newspaper report, acknowledging "that three of the players allegedly involved have already been disciplined under the Joint Drug Program."While the league did not list which of the previously disciplined players it was referencing, the newspaper report did name Oakland A's pitcher Bartolo Colon, San Francisco Giants outfielder Melky Cabrera and San Diego Padres catcher Yasmani Grandal. All three served suspensions for violations of baseball's performance enhancing drug rules last year.Washington Nationals pitcher Gio Gonzalez, also named by the paper, posted a response on his Twitter account Tuesday morning."I've never used performance enhancing drugs of any kind and I never will," Gonzalez tweeted. "I've never met or spoken with Tony Bosch or used any substance."A statement from Rodriguez's representatives followed the Miami New Times report, declaring, "The news report about a purported relationship between Alex Rodriguez and Anthony Bosch are not true ... Alex Rodriguez was not Mr. Bosch's patient, he was never treated by him and he was never advised by him."The newspaper said its article was mostly based on handwritten notes believed to have been kept by Bosch. The notebooks were give to the paper by a former employee of the clinic, which recently closed.ESPN's report Friday focused on Rodriguez and what unidentified sources described as a personal relationship between the player and Bosch."Only Tony handled A-Rod," one source was quoted as saying. The ESPN report recounted a purported scenario in which Bosch would make visits to Rodriguez's home "every few weeks." On one occasion last spring, an ESPN source said, Bosch told his associates he had been kicked out of Rodriguez's home after he had trouble locating a vein and the player became infuriated.ESPN quoted Bosch as terming the allegations against him "bull----" and "all wrong," and cited a statement from his attorney in which Bosch denied the allegations.Major League Baseball, meanwhile, said after the initial newspaper report, "We are always extremely disappointed to learn of potential links between players and the use of performance-enhancing substances ... These developments, however, provide evidence of the comprehensive nature of our anti-drug efforts."The league said its investigations department was "actively involved in the issues in South Florida.""We are in the midst of an active investigation and are gathering and reviewing information," the league said. "We will refrain from further comment until this process is complete."Contacted by CNN Friday and asked whether the organization had a response to the ESPN story, MLB spokesman Patrick Courtney responded, "There is not. We issued a statement on Tuesday saying we are investigating. This would fall into that. Thank you."A CNN crew went to the Coral Gables, Florida, address of the Biogenesis clinic Tuesday and found its offices vacant. CNN has been unable to reach Bosch, who headed the clinic.