It's Monday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayKIM DAVISMIGRANTSKeeping things orderly: Germany has done more than any other country to take in migrants and refugees from Syria, Iraq and places beyond, but even it has limits. Germany has done more than any other country to take in migrants and refugees from Syria, Iraq and places beyond, but even it has limits. Temporary border controls are being implemented to keep the crush manageable. Up to 10,000 migrants are arriving in Germany each day.JUST WATCHED Germany halts train traffic in Austria Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Germany halts train traffic in Austria 01:19EGYPT TOURISTSWrong place, wrong time: Egyptian security forces Egyptian security forces killed 12 tourists and injured 10 others after mistaking them for militants . Members of the military were chasing "terrorist elements" in the country's western desert when they came upon the tourists and opened fire. The victims included people from Egypt and Mexico. The Mexican president is calling for an investigation. There are lots of questions to be answered.CALIFORNIA FIRESInferno: Parts of Northern California are under a state of emergency. More than Parts of Northern California are under a state of emergency. More than 100,000 acres have gone up in flames in Lake and Napa counties. Folks have evacuated by the thousands. Years of drought are making it tough for firefighters to get the upper hand. There's plenty of bone-dry timber to burn. Four firefighters are being treated at the UC Davis Medical Center for injuries suffered when they were overrun by the fast-moving flames.California declares a fire emergencyMOSES MALONENBA legend: He was known as the "Chairman of the Boards" for his rebounding skills. Moses Malone, a 12-time All-Star and three-time Most Valuable Player, He was known as the "Chairman of the Boards" for his rebounding skills. Moses Malone, a 12-time All-Star and three-time Most Valuable Player, died yesterday at age 60 . He played for nine teams over his 21-year career, winning an NBA championship with the Philadelphia 76ers in 1983. The NBA named Malone one of its 50 best players of all time in 1996, and put him in the Hall of Fame five years later.