It's Wednesday, and here are five things to know for your new day.KIM DAVIS: What will Kim Davis do when she gets back to work? The Kentucky county clerk was freed yesterday , with a warning not to interfere with the issuance of same sex marriage licenses at her office when she returns later this week. If she does, she'll go back to jail. Davis and her legal team didn't indicate what she would do once back in the office, other than saying she wouldn't resign from her post.JUST WATCHED Freed Kentucky clerk: I give God the glory Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Freed Kentucky clerk: I give God the glory 01:57CAMPAIGN 2016Sorry: She took the long route to get there, but Hillary Clinton finally She took the long route to get there, but Hillary Clinton finally apologized yesterday for using a private email server to conduct State Department business when she was Secretary of State. In an interview with ABC News, Clinton said she should have used separate accounts for work and personal business and that she wants to be more "transparent." She later posted a personal apology on her Facebook page.I wanted you to hear this directly from me:Yes, I should have used two email addresses, one for personal matters and... Posted by Hillary Clinton on Tuesday, September 8, 2015PLANE FIREScary: Boarding a British Airways flight yesterday in Las Vegas turned into a huge gamble for 159 passengers and 13 crew members. The plane, a Boeing 777, Boarding a British Airways flight yesterday in Las Vegas turned into a huge gamble for 159 passengers and 13 crew members. The plane, a Boeing 777, caught fire just before takeoff . Everyone got off the plane, but 14 people were taken to the hospital for minor injuries. Passengers said they heard a loud thud and saw flames pouring from an engine. Authorities didn't immediately say what caused the plane's engine to catch fire.JUST WATCHED Passenger: 'We heard a big thud' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Passenger: 'We heard a big thud' 03:00MIGRANT CRISISStern: Angela Merkel to the EU: Step it up. The German leader said yesterday that all European Union members must do their part to help absorb the thousands of migrants flooding into the continent. Angela Merkel to the EU: Step it up. The German leader said yesterday that all European Union members must do their part to help absorb the thousands of migrants flooding into the continent. Merkel called for quotas to be set for each country to take a portion of the displaced people. She also said the current international treaty setting out countries responsibilities was out of date and that neither Greece nor Italy could handle all those coming in from the Mediterranean Sea.JUST WATCHED Merkel calls for volunteers to help house refugees Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Merkel calls for volunteers to help house refugees 02:13APPLEFlashy: Apple is expected to unveil a new iPhone today. Those announcements -- once wildly anticipated -- have become rather routine. But the computer gadget maker may still get buzz from the introduction of a Apple is expected to unveil a new iPhone today. Those announcements -- once wildly anticipated -- have become rather routine. But the computer gadget maker may still get buzz from the introduction of a long-rumored giant iPad . Why do we need a giant iPad? Well, we don't, but Apple has watched iPad sales decline for several quarters (partially due to the success and larger size of the iPhone 6 Plus), and CEO Tim Cook claims that there's large numbers of people who want an iPad but haven't bought one. Apple is betting a device that fits between a regular iPad and a Mac will be in a profitable sweet spot.