Atlanta (CNN) In the Hungarian city of Szeged where Ferenc Daroczi was born, a sea of migrants walked along train tracks and the M5 highway, desperate to start new lives in Europe.Daroczi, 38, is starting a new life, too, far from his homeland and its stern attempts to stem the tide of humanity.He raised his right hand Thursday and pledged allegiance to his new home: America. He was among 500 people who participated in the largest naturalization ceremony this year in Georgia.The oath was administered under a cloudless sky at Turner Field, where the Atlanta Braves would play the Toronto Blue Jays that evening and the new citizens were given four tickets each for the game.Many of the 93 nations represented this day were the same ones making the news overseas. Countries that refugees were fleeing: Iraq, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Kenya, Afghanistan. And the states they were running to: Germany, Hungary, France and the United Kingdom.By midafternoon, citizens of those countries had all become Americans, acutely aware that across the Atlantic a human crisis of epic proportions was unfolding."There are millions and millions of people around the world who would risk everything to be sitting right next to you," said Joseph Kernan, the deputy district director for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.Many nodded in agreement, acknowledging silently how lucky they were to be a part of America. They listened intently to a videotaped message from President Barack Obama, who told them: "You can help write the next great chapter of American history. No dream is impossible."Ferenc Daroczi, from Hungary, says no nation should lose control of its borders.That is why Daroczi left Hungary, seeking better opportunities in the United States. He lived first in Orlando and then in Columbus, Georgia, where he works in a firm that manufactures ATMs."People are much warmer in the United States," he said, though he had to teach himself to cook so he could satisfy his hunger pangs for goulash and chicken paprikash.He left home for a better life and understood why people from the Middle East, Africa and Asia are rushing toward the Hungarian border, hoping to make their way to Austria and Germany. But he said he's an engineer and thinks first always about how to make things work. He just couldn't see how it was feasible to accommodate hundreds of thousands of refugees all at once in Europe."I know there is no way any country can support this many immigrants," he said. "All those people need to fit into society, they need to get work."Remember," he said, just before taking his oath of citizenship, "every government is responsible for its people. Uncontrolled migration can be dangerous, especially when it's coming from countries that have been known to support terrorist activities."Hungary stands to lose much if it loses control of its borders, he said. A country can lose its destiny that way.Is that not why, Daroczi asked, Obama has vowed to take in only 10,000 Syrians and that, too, over two years so each person can be vetted property? And did the United States not put up barriers along the Mexican border to keep out people without proper documentation?Daroczi understood that many Americans who have been critical of Hungary's stance may perceive him as xenophobic or hypocritical. Here he was, about to become a citizen of America, and he did not support a full embrace of refugees in his homeland.Bianca Schill of Germany with her husband, Tony Betolatti, after becoming a U.S. citizen.But, he said, Hungary is a not a nation of abundance and it is not right to blame it for a crisis whose roots were sown elsewhere. It is also one of the entry nations into the Schengen Area, which is made up of 26 European countries that did away with passports and other types of border control measures."I think about the safety of my family still living in Szeged near the border with Serbia," he said. "People are suffering on both sides."After the oath, after Braves bullpen coach Eddie Perez led the new citizens in the Pledge of Allegiance, the stadium filled with the voice of Bruce Springsteen belting out "Born in the USA." It was an anthem of rebirth of sorts for those who had taken their first breaths on foreign soil.Bianca Schill, 22, clutched an American flag and a red foam Braves tomahawk in one hand, and with the other removed her aviator sunglasses and wiped away tears. She was born in Heidelberg, Germany, and had been waiting five years for this day after a paperwork snafu stripped her of permanent residency and left her undocumented.She knew the stress of living without proper papers, though she admitted her situation was nothing close to the harrowing tales heard from the migrants arriving in Europe."I am beyond blessed to have a much more easy journey than most people. I am so thankful for this day," she said. "But I am very proud of Germany. A lot is going on there and I feel Germany will try its best to take care of people."At the same time, she, like Daroczi, felt her homeland was not prepared to take on such huge numbers of people. It hardly has the resources to absorb them into the population as smoothly as a country like America could, she said.Former French citizen Aicha Gbane, 32, brought her mother, Assietou Toure, 59, to her naturalization ceremony. Gbane says it is never easy to be an immigrant.Aicha Gbane, 32, also agreed. She grew up in Paris and said France did not have the capacity to take in massive numbers of newcomers from other lands. America, she said, is still a country like no other. It's a country where you have hope."It's very different for me. I didn't come here because I was escaping a serious situation," she said. "But those people who are coming to Europe now -- they can die if they stay where they are. It's a human rights issue."She did know this much: that no matter what, it was never easy to be an immigrant. She sees the thousands of Syrians, Iraqis and Afghans interviewed on television who say they are ecstatic when they finally make it into Germany. It's as though they have reached utopia."They think they have made it," Gbane said. "Then they realize after a while that they have left behind everything. And they cannot go back."Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A woman cries after being rescued in the Mediterranean Sea about 15 miles north of Sabratha, Libya, on July 25, 2017. More than 6,600 migrants and refugees entered Europe by sea in January 2018, according to the UN migration agency , and more than 240 people died on the Mediterranean Sea during that month. Hide Caption 1 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Refugees and migrants get off a fishing boat at the Greek island of Lesbos after crossing the Aegean Sea from Turkey in October 2015. Hide Caption 2 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Hide Caption 3 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Migrants step over dead bodies while being rescued in the Mediterranean Sea, off the coast of Libya in October 2016. Agence France-Presse photographer Aris Messinis was on a Spanish rescue boat that encountered several crowded migrant boats. Messinis said the rescuers counted 29 dead bodies -- 10 men and 19 women, all between 20 and 30 years old. "I've (seen) in my career a lot of death," he said. "I cover war zones, conflict and everything. I see a lot of death and suffering, but this is something different. Completely different." Hide Caption 4 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Authorities stand near the body of 2-year-old Alan Kurdi on the shore of Bodrum, Turkey, in September 2015. Alan, his brother and their mother drowned while fleeing Syria. This photo was shared around the world, often with a Turkish hashtag that means "Flotsam of Humanity." Hide Caption 5 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Migrants board a train at Keleti station in Budapest, Hungary, after the station was reopened in September 2015. Hide Caption 6 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Children cry as migrants in Greece try to break through a police cordon to cross into Macedonia in August 2015. Thousands of migrants -- most of them fleeing Syria's bitter conflict -- were stranded in a no-man's land on the border. Hide Caption 7 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos The Kusadasi Ilgun, a sunken 20-foot boat, lies in waters off the Greek island of Samos in November 2016. Hide Caption 8 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Migrants bathe outside near a makeshift shelter in an abandoned warehouse in Subotica, Serbia, in January 2017. Hide Caption 9 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A police officer in Calais, France, tries to prevent migrants from heading for the Channel Tunnel to England in June 2015. Hide Caption 10 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A migrant walks past a burning shack in the southern part of the "Jungle" migrant camp in Calais, France, in March 2016. Part of the camp was being demolished -- and the inhabitants relocated -- in response to unsanitary conditions at the site. Hide Caption 11 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Migrants stumble as they cross a river north of Idomeni, Greece, attempting to reach Macedonia on a route that would bypass the border-control fence in March 2016. Hide Caption 12 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos In September 2015, an excavator dumps life vests that were previously used by migrants on the Greek island of Lesbos. Hide Caption 13 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos The Turkish coast guard helps refugees near Aydin, Turkey, after their boat toppled en route to Greece in January 2016. Hide Caption 14 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A woman sits with children around a fire at the northern Greek border point of Idomeni in March 2016. Hide Caption 15 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A column of migrants moves along a path between farm fields in Rigonce, Slovenia, in October 2015. Hide Caption 16 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A ship crowded with migrants flips onto its side in May 2016 as an Italian navy ship approaches off the coach of Libya. Passengers had rushed to the port side, a shift in weight that proved too much. Five people died and more than 500 were rescued. Hide Caption 17 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Refugees break through a barbed-wire fence on the Greece-Macedonia border in February 2016, as tensions boiled over regarding new travel restrictions into Europe. Hide Caption 18 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Policemen try to disperse hundreds of migrants by spraying them with fire extinguishers during a registration procedure in Kos, Greece, in August 2015. Hide Caption 19 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A member of the humanitarian organization Sea-Watch holds a migrant baby who drowned following the capsizing of a boat off Libya in May 2016. Hide Caption 20 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos A migrant in Gevgelija, Macedonia, tries to sneak onto a train bound for Serbia in August 2015. Hide Caption 21 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Migrants, most of them from Eritrea, jump into the Mediterranean from a crowded wooden boat during a rescue operation about 13 miles north of Sabratha, Libya, in August 2016. Hide Caption 22 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Refugees rescued off the Libyan coast get their first sight of Sardinia as they sail in the Mediterranean Sea toward Cagliari, Italy, in September 2015. Hide Caption 23 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Local residents and rescue workers help migrants from the sea after a boat carrying them sank off the island of Rhodes, Greece, in April 2015. Hide Caption 24 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Investigators in Burgenland, Austria, inspect an abandoned truck that contained the bodies of refugees who died of suffocation in August 2015. The 71 victims -- most likely fleeing war-ravaged Syria -- were 60 men, eight women and three children. Hide Caption 25 of 26 Photos: Europe's migration crisis in 25 photos Syrian refugees sleep on the floor of a train car taking them from Macedonia to the Serbian border in August 2015. How to help the ongoing migrant crisis Hide Caption 26 of 26The migration to Europe is making headlines now because it has reached emergency levels. But every day, people from all over the world begin anew in lands far from where they were born.That was evidenced in a small way here in Atlanta on Thursday. Federal officials acknowledged the myriad experiences of the people who stood before them. They had things in common with each other and with the migrants flooding Europe.They all were starting over in a strange land. They learned to cope with being homesick. And most of all, they knew they could not give up in the face of hardship.