New York (CNN) On a park bench outside a Manhattan housing project, Jenny Ortiz, 65, remembered the day she and several parishioners were led out of Our Lady Queen of Angels Church in handcuffs.A handful of East Harlem residents had staged a peaceful protest one night in 2007 after the New York Archdiocese announced plans to close their beloved parish.They occupied the rear pews of the redbrick church, Ortiz said. They sang hymns and prayed. Church officials called the police, who moved in as soon as the protesters finished saying the rosary. They were arrested and later issued summonses for trespassing."My daughter and my grandchildren were baptized there," Ortiz said. "It hurt to be taken out of our church like criminals."JUST WATCHED Pope Francis talks climate change, income inequality Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pope Francis talks climate change, income inequality 03:02The visit to Our Lady Queen of Angels School, which serves 295 mostly Latino and black children, is in line with Francis' mission of serving immigrants, the marginalized and the poor. It also illustrates the Roman Catholic Church's struggles with changing times, diminishing congregations and a dwindling priesthood.On the double red doors outside the sanctuary, signs in Spanish and English read: "Welcome to East Harlem Pope Francis. The parishioners of Our Lady Queen of Angels continue on the sidewalk. PLEASE OPEN OUR CHURCH."Sitting outside the Thomas Jefferson Houses , adjacent to the church, Ortiz said, "We hope to have our church back someday."#CNNPope A sign at home across the street from school #PopeFrancis will visit urges him to reopen shuttered church. #popeinnyc A photo posted by Ray Sánchez (@raysancheznyc) on Sep 25, 2015 at 10:20am PDTThe Pope is scheduled to meet two dozen students from four Catholic elementary schools, including six third- and fourth-graders from Our Lady Queen of Angels.Francis also will meet migrants and refugees from Mexico, Peru, Ecuador, Honduras, Africa, India and Pakistan. They will include day laborers, immigrant mothers, car wash workers and unaccompanied minors who crossed the border without their parents and helped start a soccer league in the Bronx."This is his most important stop," Monsignor Kevin Sullivan, executive director of Catholic Charities , said the of the Pope's East Harlem visit. "We think this is the perfect place for Pope Francis to be."It's the first visit to the United States by the first pope from Latin America.JUST WATCHED Pope Francis: 'Most of us were once foreigners' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pope Francis: 'Most of us were once foreigners' 05:50In a historic address to Congress on Thursday, Francis asked lawmakers to embrace millions of undocumented immigrants"We, the people of this continent, are not fearful of foreigners, because most of us were once foreigners," he told lawmakers, military brass, Supreme Court justices and Cabinet members."We must not be taken aback by their numbers, but rather view them as persons, seeing their faces and listening to their stories, trying to respond as best we can to their situation."In addition to the East Harlem stop, the Jesuit pope's itinerary includes time with homeless people in Washington and prisoners in Philadelphia."He's an instinctual politician and the people he relates to are those he regards as the most fragile," said Margaret Crahan, director of the Cuba program at the Institute of Latin American Studies at Columbia University."His persona is very much linked to relating to people in a very direct fashion. ... And he derives warmth from children."Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves from the top of the steps as he prepares to depart Philadelphia International Airport on Sunday, September 27, on his way back to Rome. The Pope has been on a six-day visit to the United States, with stops in Washington, New York and Philadelphia. Hide Caption 1 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets families at the conclusion of Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27. Hide Caption 2 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A huge crowd gathers to celebrate Mass with Pope Francis on September 27 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 3 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis celebrates Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27. Hide Caption 4 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves to the crowd from the popemobile during a parade along the Benjamin Franklin Parkway before Mass on September 27 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 5 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves to the audience as he leaves Saint Charles Borromeo Seminary in Wynnewood, Pennsylvania, after addressing bishops on September 27. Hide Caption 6 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Aretha Franklin performs as Pope Francis looks on during the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 7 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis takes the stage at the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 8 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis speaks in front of Independence Hall, from the lectern used by President Abraham Lincoln during the Gettysburg Address, on Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 9 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis rides in the Popemobile along Independence Mall before delivering a speech outside Independence Hall on September 26. Hide Caption 10 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Residents in decorated apartment windows await the arrival of Pope Francis near Independence Mall on September 26. Hide Caption 11 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis blesses Communion during a Mass at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul, Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 12 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis delivers Mass before a crowd of more than 2,000, consisting largely of priests, women religious and deacons on September 26. Hide Caption 13 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Members of the choir arrive at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul prior to the arrival of Pope Francis on September 26. Hide Caption 14 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis kisses and blesses Michael Keating, 10, of Elverson, Pennsylvania, after arriving in Philadelphia on September 26. Keating has cerebral palsy and is the son of Chuck Keating, director of the Bishop Shanahan High School band, which performed at Pope Francis' airport arrival. Hide Caption 15 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The faithful receive communion at the snack bar during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25. Hide Caption 16 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis celebrates Mass at Madison Square Garden on Friday, September 25, in New York City. Hide Caption 17 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A crucifix hangs above members of the clergy during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25. Hide Caption 18 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis rides through New York's Central Park on September 25. Francis addressed the U.N. General Assembly and will head to Philadelphia this weekend for the World Meeting of Families, a large Catholic event expected to draw nearly 1 million pilgrims. Hide Caption 19 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets the crowd in New York's East Harlem Neighborhood on September 25. Hide Caption 20 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis places a white rose at the 9/11 memorial in New York on September 25. Hide Caption 21 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis attends a multireligious service at the 9/11 memorial. Hide Caption 22 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope arrives at the U.N. General Assembly to give his speech. Hide Caption 23 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis gives a thumbs-up after leading an evening prayer service Thursday, September 24, at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. Hide Caption 24 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Nuns celebrate at St. Patrick's Cathedral as they wait for the arrival of Pope Francis. Hide Caption 25 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis greets crowds as he arrives at St. Patrick's Cathedral. Hide Caption 26 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Crowds welcome Pope Francis to New York on September 24 after his arrival at John F. Kennedy International Airport. Hide Caption 27 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A Pope Francis doll amuses the man himself at John F. Kennedy International Airport. Hide Caption 28 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis stops to look at a sculpture of Spanish-born missionary Junipero Serra at the U.S. Capitol in Washington on September 24. The Pope canonized Serra during a Mass the day before. Hide Caption 29 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Members of Congress accompany Pope Francis on the Speaker's Balcony on Capitol Hill on September 24. Hide Caption 30 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Congressional staffers and guests strain to view and photograph the Pope at the Capitol. Hide Caption 31 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis blesses a child at the Capitol. Hide Caption 32 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis addresses a joint meeting of the U.S. Congress on September 24. Vice President Joe Biden and House Speaker John Boehner sit behind him in the House chamber. Hide Caption 33 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis is the first Pope to address a joint meeting of Congress. Hide Caption 34 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Boehner welcomes Pope Francis before his speech to Congress. Hide Caption 35 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis canonizes Serra during a Mass in Washington on Wednesday, September 23. Hide Caption 36 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope celebrates Mass at the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception on September 23. Hide Caption 37 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Nuns wait for Pope Francis to arrive inside the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. Hide Caption 38 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets crowds during his parade in Washington on September 23. Hide Caption 39 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis reaches out to bless a child during the parade in Washington. Hide Caption 40 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States President Barack Obama hosts the Pope in the Oval Office of the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 41 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Obama, the Pope and first lady Michelle Obama greet the crowd during an arrival ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 42 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis addresses guests on the South Lawn of the White House. Hide Caption 43 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States People wave U.S. and Vatican flags as they wait for the Pope's arrival at the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 44 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Early on September 23, people gather along Pope Francis' parade route in Washington. Hide Caption 45 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis departs from Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland shortly after his flight landed on Tuesday, September 22. Hide Caption 46 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves from his car at Andrews Air Force Base. Hide Caption 47 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis is escorted by the Obamas and their daughters after arriving in the country. Hide Caption 48 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Clergy members brace for the wind as they stand on the tarmac at Andrews Air Force Base. Hide Caption 49 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope waves at Obama and his family. Hide Caption 50 of 50In a classroom at the Manhattan school, where nearly 70% of students are Hispanic and 22% black, the children will sing for the special guest -- himself a son of immigrants. They will pray and talk about community service and the environment.The visit comes at a time when New York has shuttered dozens of parochial schools in recent years in part because of demographic changes and diminishing enrollments."I hope his visit fundamentally changes the conversation about Catholic education in America," said Kathleen Porter-Magee, superintendent and chief academic officer at the Partnership for Inner-City Education, which manages Our Lady Queen of Angels and five other schools in the Bronx and Harlem."The headlines have been largely negative over the past several years. ... People have talked about schools closing and struggling and Catholics moving out of the city to the suburbs. That's really put pressure on the schools, particularly those that serve our neediest students."Across the street from the school, the owner of Vianel Beauty Salon, Vianel Garcia, spoke proudly about her three children having graduated from Our Lady Queen of Angels.Since learning of Francis' visit to the school, Garcia has been preparing. The salon has a fresh coat of paint, its walls adorned with photos and illustrations of the Pope. She had posters made: "Vianel Beauty Salon welcomes Pope Francis.""This Pope is so different from the rest," said Garcia, a native of the Dominican Republic. "He wants to get close to people. He is simple and humble."Garcia and friends spent the night before the Pope's arrival in her mother's apartment, which is attached to the salon. They will cook, pray, sing and talk while waiting for a close-up glimpse of Francis from the salon windows."Of all the places for the Pope to visit, he's coming to East Harlem," Garcia said. "We need his blessing."#CNNPope Rita Alonso, a native of Mexico, hopes to talk briefly to #PopeFrancis about immigration and the reopening of Our Lady Queen of Angels Church during his visit to parish school in East Harlem. #popeinnyc A photo posted by Ray Sánchez (@raysancheznyc) on Sep 25, 2015 at 9:39am PDTLili Garcia, who is not related to the salon owner, will be among those at the business to see Francis. She said she married her late husband, Olivario, at Our Lady of Queen of Angels Church more than 50 years ago. They met at a factory: He was 18; she was 17.After her husband died last year, Lili Garcia returned to the church to discover it was closed."I sat outside and thought about all we had gone through together as a couple -- the good, the bad," she said. "This community needs that church. There is a lot of violence, a lot of need, a lot of hunger."Every Sunday since the church closed in 2007, about a dozen or so former parishioners have gathered on park benches across the street to pray."I never thought they would survive this long," said Carlos Soto, 67, husband of Jenny Ortiz, who still participates in the weekly gatherings.Ortiz said, "We share our pains and our sorrows. We visit the sick and pray for the community."When the church was founded in 1886, it served German immigrants and later Italians that came after them. When it closed eight years ago, the baptisms, marriages and funerals were mostly for Dominicans, Mexicans and Puerto Ricans.In East Harlem, some believe the papal visit will bring change, that the church could reopen."He's a people person," Maciel Soto, 39, Ortiz's daughter, said of Francis. "He wants to be as normal as he can be. For the first time, we have a pope like us. Maybe there'll be a miracle."