(CNN) Game of Thrones reigns supreme at the Emmys. The pope wraps up his Cuba journey and gets ready for the U.S. And two American hostages held in Yemen are now free.It's Monday, and here are five things to know for your new day:EMMY AWARDSOutstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series: Viola Davis, "How to Get Away with Murder"Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series: Viola Davis, "How to Get Away with Murder"After five seasons, "Game of Thrones" won its first best-drama Emmy -- plus three other Emmys on Sunday night. After eight tries, Jon Hamm won his first Emmy for his iconic role on "Mad Men." And after four seasons, "Veep" ended the five-year winning dynasty of "Modern Family." Moral of the story? Perseverance pays off. Oh, and HBO is swimming in EmmysPOPE FRANCIS IN NORTH AMERICAFrom Cuba to the U.S.: It's been a busy weekend for Pope Francis, and this week will be even busier. On Sunday, he celebrated Mass in front of thousands of people at Havana's Revolution Square. Then It's been a busy weekend for Pope Francis, and this week will be even busier. On Sunday, he celebrated Mass in front of thousands of people at Havana's Revolution Square. Then he met with the Castro brothers . Expect even more excitement about the pope's journey when he comes to the United States on TuesdayPEANUT BUTTER SALMONELLA TRIALJUST WATCHED Verdict delivered in salmonella trial Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Verdict delivered in salmonella trial 01:539 dead, 714 sickened: For the first time, a food executive has been convicted on federal felony charges linked to a food poisoning outbreak. And today, former Peanut Corporation of America owner For the first time, a food executive has been convicted on federal felony charges linked to a food poisoning outbreak. And today, former Peanut Corporation of America owner Stewart Parnell could be sentenced to life in prison for knowingly shipping out peanut paste contaminated with salmonella. Victims of the outbreak will get to speak at the sentencing.'BABY DOE' MURDER CASEJUST WATCHED Mother, boyfriend charged in Boston toddler's killing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mother, boyfriend charged in Boston toddler's killing 02:24Mother, boyfriend due in court: . For months, investigators only knew her as "Baby Doe," the toddler whose remains were found wrapped in a trash bag along Boston Harbor in June. Now, we know her real name: Bella Bond. And authorities have arrested her mother and her mother's boyfriend, . For months, investigators only knew her as "Baby Doe," the toddler whose remains were found wrapped in a trash bag along Boston Harbor in June. Now, we know her real name: Bella Bond. And authorities have arrested her mother and her mother's boyfriend, who allegedly punched the 2-year-old because he thought she was possessed . Both the mother and the boyfriend are due in court on Monday.AMERICAN HOSTAGES RELEASEDJUST WATCHED 2 Americans among group of hostages freed in Yemen Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2 Americans among group of hostages freed in Yemen 02:06