(CNN) Pope Francis gave Catholic nuns a big shoutout during his first-ever trip to New York ."I would like to express my esteem and gratitude to the religious women of the United States," the Pope said to applause that resonated through the city's stately St. Patrick's Cathedral. "What would the Church be without you?"Speaking during evening prayers Thursday at St. Patrick's Cathedral, Francis continued:"Women of strength, fighters, with that spirit of courage which puts you on the front lines in the proclamation of the Gospel. To you, religious women, sisters and mothers of this people, I wish to say 'thank you,' a big thank you... and to tell you that I love you very much."The Pope's high praise came just months after the Vatican wrapped up a controversial investigation of an umbrella group of American nuns.In 2012, the Vatican accused the Leadership Conference of Women Religious, the country's largest group of Catholic nuns, of sponsoring "certain radical feminist themes incompatible with the Catholic faith." American bishops were appointed to oversee the LCWR and the speakers invited to their conferences. That oversight abruptly ended in April.A separate Vatican investigation encompassed all American "women religious" -- as Catholic sisters and nuns are officially known -- and sought to understand why their membership has dropped so deeply for decades. That investigation ended without any censure of the Catholic women, but some said they were deeply offended by its premise.Pope Francis speaks during vespers Thursday night.Francis has previously said that women in the church are "more important than bishops and priests." In December of last year, he told a gathering of female theologians they were "strawberries on the cake."Francis has been working to elevate the role of women without changing church doctrine that bars them from the priesthood.He has appointed women to a few powerful Vatican positions, including the committee to combat sex abuse in the Catholic Church. Roughly half of that 17-member committee is made up of women.According to Vatican Radio, just 18% of the Vatican's workforce overall is female, including employees at Vatican museums, post offices and the Holy See that governs the Roman Catholic Church.In his message on Thursday, Francis also called attention to the pain recent scandals in the church have caused.Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves from the top of the steps as he prepares to depart Philadelphia International Airport on Sunday, September 27, on his way back to Rome. The Pope has been on a six-day visit to the United States, with stops in Washington, New York and Philadelphia. Hide Caption 1 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets families at the conclusion of Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27. Hide Caption 2 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A huge crowd gathers to celebrate Mass with Pope Francis on September 27 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 3 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis celebrates Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27. Hide Caption 4 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves to the crowd from the popemobile during a parade along the Benjamin Franklin Parkway before Mass on September 27 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 5 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves to the audience as he leaves Saint Charles Borromeo Seminary in Wynnewood, Pennsylvania, after addressing bishops on September 27. Hide Caption 6 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Aretha Franklin performs as Pope Francis looks on during the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 7 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis takes the stage at the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 8 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis speaks in front of Independence Hall, from the lectern used by President Abraham Lincoln during the Gettysburg Address, on Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 9 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis rides in the Popemobile along Independence Mall before delivering a speech outside Independence Hall on September 26. Hide Caption 10 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Residents in decorated apartment windows await the arrival of Pope Francis near Independence Mall on September 26. Hide Caption 11 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis blesses Communion during a Mass at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul, Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 12 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis delivers Mass before a crowd of more than 2,000, consisting largely of priests, women religious and deacons on September 26. Hide Caption 13 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Members of the choir arrive at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul prior to the arrival of Pope Francis on September 26. Hide Caption 14 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis kisses and blesses Michael Keating, 10, of Elverson, Pennsylvania, after arriving in Philadelphia on September 26. Keating has cerebral palsy and is the son of Chuck Keating, director of the Bishop Shanahan High School band, which performed at Pope Francis' airport arrival. Hide Caption 15 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The faithful receive communion at the snack bar during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25. Hide Caption 16 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis celebrates Mass at Madison Square Garden on Friday, September 25, in New York City. Hide Caption 17 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A crucifix hangs above members of the clergy during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25. Hide Caption 18 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis rides through New York's Central Park on September 25. Francis addressed the U.N. General Assembly and will head to Philadelphia this weekend for the World Meeting of Families, a large Catholic event expected to draw nearly 1 million pilgrims. Hide Caption 19 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets the crowd in New York's East Harlem Neighborhood on September 25. Hide Caption 20 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis places a white rose at the 9/11 memorial in New York on September 25. Hide Caption 21 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis attends a multireligious service at the 9/11 memorial. Hide Caption 22 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope arrives at the U.N. General Assembly to give his speech. Hide Caption 23 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis gives a thumbs-up after leading an evening prayer service Thursday, September 24, at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. Hide Caption 24 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Nuns celebrate at St. Patrick's Cathedral as they wait for the arrival of Pope Francis. Hide Caption 25 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis greets crowds as he arrives at St. Patrick's Cathedral. Hide Caption 26 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Crowds welcome Pope Francis to New York on September 24 after his arrival at John F. Kennedy International Airport. Hide Caption 27 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A Pope Francis doll amuses the man himself at John F. Kennedy International Airport. Hide Caption 28 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis stops to look at a sculpture of Spanish-born missionary Junipero Serra at the U.S. Capitol in Washington on September 24. The Pope canonized Serra during a Mass the day before. Hide Caption 29 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Members of Congress accompany Pope Francis on the Speaker's Balcony on Capitol Hill on September 24. Hide Caption 30 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Congressional staffers and guests strain to view and photograph the Pope at the Capitol. Hide Caption 31 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis blesses a child at the Capitol. Hide Caption 32 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis addresses a joint meeting of the U.S. Congress on September 24. Vice President Joe Biden and House Speaker John Boehner sit behind him in the House chamber. Hide Caption 33 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis is the first Pope to address a joint meeting of Congress. Hide Caption 34 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Boehner welcomes Pope Francis before his speech to Congress. Hide Caption 35 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis canonizes Serra during a Mass in Washington on Wednesday, September 23. Hide Caption 36 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope celebrates Mass at the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception on September 23. Hide Caption 37 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Nuns wait for Pope Francis to arrive inside the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. Hide Caption 38 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets crowds during his parade in Washington on September 23. Hide Caption 39 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis reaches out to bless a child during the parade in Washington. Hide Caption 40 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States President Barack Obama hosts the Pope in the Oval Office of the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 41 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Obama, the Pope and first lady Michelle Obama greet the crowd during an arrival ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 42 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis addresses guests on the South Lawn of the White House. Hide Caption 43 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States People wave U.S. and Vatican flags as they wait for the Pope's arrival at the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 44 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Early on September 23, people gather along Pope Francis' parade route in Washington. Hide Caption 45 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis departs from Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland shortly after his flight landed on Tuesday, September 22. Hide Caption 46 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves from his car at Andrews Air Force Base. Hide Caption 47 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis is escorted by the Obamas and their daughters after arriving in the country. Hide Caption 48 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Clergy members brace for the wind as they stand on the tarmac at Andrews Air Force Base. Hide Caption 49 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope waves at Obama and his family. Hide Caption 50 of 50"You suffered greatly in the not distant past by having to bear the shame of some of your brothers who harmed and scandalized the Church in the most vulnerable of her members," Francis said, referring to the clergy sex abuse scandal that harmed thousands of children, demoralized many Catholics and cost the church more than $1 billion in legal settlements.In the main, the Pope's message was a pep talk to his audience of priests and nuns. He told them he is with them in this time of "pain and difficulty" and thankful for their faithful service.The Pope acknowledged the challenges they face "adapting to an evolving pastoral landscape."Francis began the service by offering prayers after the tragedy at Mecca, expressing "my sentiments of closeness," to the hundreds of Muslim pilgrims who lost their lives in Saudi Arabia. A stampede during one of the last rituals of the Hajj season -- the annual Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca -- killed more than 700 people and injured close to 900."In this moment I give them assurances of my prayers," Francis said.Francis' visit to St. Patrick's Cathedral marked the fifth pontifical trip to the site. More than five million people walk through the church's iconic bronze doors each year.Francis said the cathedral can serve as a "symbol of the work of generations of American priests and religious, and lay faithful who helped build up the Church in the United States."The cathedral, which opened in 1879, is the seat of the Archbishop. It has been through an extensive renovation estimated at $175 million.Francis' evening prayers capped a busy day. Thursday morning, he addressed Congress in a speech that focused on immigration, the death penalty, racial injustice, the weapons trade, and poverty. Friday, he'll address the United Nations.This weekend, the Pope will go to Philadelphia for the World Meeting of Families, a large Catholic event that is expected to draw nearly 1 million pilgrims to papal Masses.