(CNN) Morgan Harrington's parents were struck by the similarities as soon as they heard University of Virginia student Hannah Graham went missing.Their daughter, a Virginia Tech student, had disappeared five years earlier at the same time of year, around the same time of night and in the same place -- Charlottesville, Virginia.But even as speculation surged that the two cases could be connected , the Harringtons were still waiting for answers. Until now.Prosecutors revealed Tuesday that a grand jury has indicted Jesse Matthew Jr. -- the same suspect who's charged with capital murder in the Graham case -- in Harrington's death, too.The grand jury charged Matthew with first-degree murder and abduction with the intent to defile in the case of Harrington, a 20-year-old Virginia Tech student who went missing in October 2009.A grand jury has indicted Jesse Matthew Jr. in the Morgan Harrington case, charging him with kidnapping and murder.After investigators said they believed he was the last person to see Graham before she went missing, Matthew, a former cab driver, was taken into custody nearly a year ago on a beach in Galveston County, Texas, about 1,300 miles away from Charlottesville.The Albermarle County Commonwealth Attorney's Office announced the new charges against him in a statement Tuesday. He is set to appear in court to face the charges in the Harrington case on Wednesday, prosecutors said.Prosecutors didn't detail what evidence led them to pursue charges in the Harrington case, and said in a statement that to ensure a fair trial they would not be holding a press conference or comment on the evidence, the penalty they're seeking or their trial strategy.Matthew's public defender did not immediately respond to a call requesting comment.Gil Harrington, the slain student's mother, said she's long believed Matthew was behind her daughter's death, and was relieved to hear he'd been charged."That the person responsible will be brought to justice, there's a lot of satisfaction in that," she told CNN affiliate WDBJ . "Something as heinous as taking someone's life should have consequences. Today, finally, the domino cascade of consequences for Jesse Matthew for killing Morgan Harrington has started."The disappearanceHarrington disappeared on October 17, 2009, after attending a Metallica concert at the University of Virginia's John Paul Jones Arena.She had been so excited about the concert, according to her mother, that she posted the tickets on the refrigerator about six months ahead of time. She tried on three outfits before settling on what to wear: a crystal necklace and a black T-shirt with the word "Pantera" spelled out in tan letters.Police say she left her friends to use the restroom during the concert. They called her cell phone when she didn't return.Harrington told them she was outside the arena and could not get back in because of its reentry policy. But she also said they shouldn't worry and that she would find a ride home.Witnesses later saw someone matching Harrington's description walking along a nearby bridge. Harrington's purse, identification and cell phone were found the following day in an overflow parking lot near the arena.Her remains were discovered on a nearby farm in January 2010.Searching for closureLast year, Harrington's mother told CNN affiliate WSLS that she was happy investigators had found a possible link between Graham's case and her daughter's killing."But it doesn't change a lot for us, in some ways," she said. "You know, our bedroom is still empty upstairs. We're still not going to have the grandchildren, the wedding, those things."JUST WATCHED Morgan Harrington's family speaks out Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Morgan Harrington's family speaks out 06:16On Tuesday, she told WDBJ that long before Matthew's indictment in her daughter's killing, she's been going to court every time he's appeared, ever since his arrest in the Graham case."I have always known that he was the one who did it, and that's one reason why ... I want my face there," she said. "Because I want him to see me. Because I want him to know that I know."And Gil Harrington said she's prepared to keep showing up."I'm on the new marathon now. I don't know what shoes I'm going to need," she told WDBJ. "But I know it's going to be rigorous. And I have what it takes to finish the course."