(CNN) Investigators in the shooting death of Illinois police Lt. Joe Gliniewicz will be reviewing a hodgepodge of surveillance videos for clues in the slaying of the Fox Lake veteran, officials said Friday."We have images of people that we believe are subjects that we'd be interested in talking to," said Lake County Major Crime Task Force commander George Filenko, describing the footage as "a mix of videos from residences and businesses."When a reporter asked whether the subjects are two white men and a black man -- the only description police have released of the possible killers -- Filenko said at a news conference: "There's a commonality there, and there's an interest in those videos."The videos are in the hands of the FBI, which will sequence them in hopes of coming up with a chronology, Filenko said.The potential evidence does not include footage from a home security video system in the area of the shooting that the commander on Thursday described as significant.Any video in the area could help authorities determine who shot Gliniewicz on Tuesday morning. The officer had described via radio three men he encountered shortly before the shooting.A homeowner in Fox Lake, a community of about 10,000 people in northern Illinois, turned over his surveillance video after telling police that he saw three people in the area, according to Filenko.Local investigators don't have the proper equipment to see the recording, so the footage was given to a nearby Department of Homeland Security office, and police hope to learn what it shows soon.Filenko told CNN's "Erin Burnett OutFront" that the person who recorded the video said there were two white men and a black man walking past the camera. He said the video was recorded within the area where Gliniewicz was killed."Again, we don't believe in coincidences. However, we still don't know and I can't verify exactly whether this video is relevant to the case," Filenko said. "But at this point it's probably one of the most significant ones we've recovered."Additionally, investigators learned overnight that the Lake County Department of Transportation has videos from cameras at road intersections from the time of the shooting. Investigators don't have those DOT videos yet.Normally, those DOT videos are recycled every several hours, but "they were astute enough" to save this particular footage after hearing about the shooting, Filenko said.Meanwhile, a source involved in the investigation told CNN that Gliniewicz's gun was fired on the morning, though it's not clear who discharged the weapon.The gun was recovered at the crime scene, the source said on condition of anonymity.It's not clear how Gliniewicz's gun figures into the killing. Police have declined to answer questions about whose gun was used to kill him.Filenko confirmed the weapon that was recovered near Gliniewicz's body. He declined to say how many times it was fired or whether it was the murder weapon.The company Motorola Solutions, meanwhile, announced Friday that it's offering a $50,000 reward for information that leads to the arrest and conviction of those who killed Gliniewicz. Motorola Solutions Vice President Ali Kapadia said the killing happened in an area where some company employees live.The last day of workGliniewicz was on his way to work Tuesday morning in the cruiser that he had taken home the day before, when he saw three suspicious people, Filenko said earlier this week.This would not have been unusual as Gliniewicz was the type of officer who considered himself on duty as soon as he rolled into town, Filenko said.Photos: Illinois officer fatally shot Photos: Illinois officer fatally shot A police officer searches for three suspects in the fatal shooting of a police officer in Fox Lake, Illinois, on Tuesday, September 1. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Illinois officer fatally shot Police officers patrol a swampy area in Fox Lake. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Illinois officer fatally shot Police officers meet up before heading out for the search. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Illinois officer fatally shot Officers search an area for the suspects. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Illinois officer fatally shot A police officer scans an area for suspects. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Illinois officer fatally shot A police officer is led to an ambulance in the scorching heat. Hide Caption 6 of 6The lieutenant made the first call at 7:52 a.m. and called three minutes later to request backup. The backup units arrived at 8:01 and found their fellow officer dead , roughly 50 yards from his vehicle, at 8:09, Filenko said.Authorities initially marked off a 2-square-mile area across tricky terrain and brought in helicopters, K-9 units, federal agents, night-vision equipment and body-heat sensors. Police cleared every home in the cordoned-off area and fielded more than 100 tips, Filenko said.On Wednesday, they widened the search area.So far, police have found no witnesses.JUST WATCHED Lessons learned from previous manhunts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lessons learned from previous manhunts 01:50Besides the home security video that Filenko mentioned Thursday, police say they also have one video from a truck driver who had a camera in his vehicle and was in the area Tuesday.An autopsy was completed, but authorities aren't releasing the results yet, Filenko said. The Northern Illinois Police Crime Laboratory is expediting its review of evidence to determine whether there was any fingerprint or DNA transfer.The FBI, U.S. Marshals and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives joined in the hunt. More than 400 law enforcement officers raked through the heavy woods near Fox Lake on foot, all-terrain vehicles and horseback.Local police officers have volunteered to come in while they're off duty, and other law enforcement officers in the surrounding area have called to offer their assistance, Filenko said.Following a false leadOn Wednesday night, an Illinois woman sent 100 officers scrambling after saying she saw two men who fit the description of the men police have been looking for.But after hours of searching, police said, they discovered she had made the story up."It's very disappointing because our resources could have been used somewhere else," Lake County sheriff's Detective Christopher Covelli said early Thursday morning.JUST WATCHED Remembering Lt. Joe Gliniewicz Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remembering Lt. Joe Gliniewicz 02:33Kristin B. Kiefer, 30, called police and said she was driving and pulled over near a cornfield because she was having car trouble, Covelli said.Kiefer told officers a white man and a black man tried to get in her car, Covelli said. She said when she picked up her phone to call police, the two men fled into the cornfield.More than 100 federal, state and local law enforcement officers descended on the area overnight. Eleven K-9 officers and three aircraft also responded to the tip.But Kiefer later admitted she fabricated the story because she was looking for attention, Covelli said.She was charged with two counts of disorderly conduct -- one felony, one misdemeanor -- due to the false report, the detective said.CNN affiliate WLS said Kiefer made $100,000 bond and was released Thursday afternoon.Gliniewicz was a hero to many in Fox Lake. Hundreds of people gathered Wednesday night for a vigil to honor the 30-year police veteran. He led the local police explorers' program, mentoring and training youths interested in becoming officers.He was a husband and father of four.A vigil was held Wednesday for Lt. Joe Gliniewicz."Joe was my best friend and my world. My hero," Melodie Gliniewicz told more than 1,000 people at the candlelight vigil.She said her husband was "the love of my life for the last 26½ years. He was my rock as much as I was his rock."