It's Monday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayKIM DAVIS APPEALKim Davis, the Kentucky county clerk who won't issue same-sex marriage licenses, is appealing the contempt of court hearing that landed her in jail last week. She's looking for a "get out of jail" card. Davis had refused to give licenses to same-sex couples after June's Supreme Court decision on grounds that issuing the licenses would violate her Christian convictions against same-sex marriage.SARAH PALINHabla Inglés: If you're in this country, "speak American." That's the gist of what If you're in this country, "speak American." That's the gist of what former VP candidate Sarah Palin told CNN's Jake Tapper . She thinks it's great that people like presidential candidate Jeb Bush are bilingual, but says people in this country should speak English. "When you're here, let's speak American. ... Let's speak English, and that's a kind of a unifying aspect of the nation is the language that is understood by all," Palin said. Donald Trump recently criticized Bush for answering a question in Spanish.JUST WATCHED Sarah Palin: Immigrants should speak English Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sarah Palin: Immigrants should speak English 01:33MIGRANTSKindness overload: Austria says it can't keep this up much longer. Germany says it can't, either. After absorbing more than 12,000 refugees, Austria wants to see a gradual reduction in the numbers of refugees coming through, the nation's chancellor said. The United Nations' refugee agency estimates that 366,402 refugees and migrants have crossed the Mediterranean Sea to Europe this year. Thousands are dead or missing. Their futures are far from certain.JUST WATCHED Migrants determined to enter Austria, Germany Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Migrants determined to enter Austria, Germany 02:29DRONESDroning on: These drone incidents are getting out of hand . A drone crash-landed inside the University of Kentucky football stadium during pregame festivities at the Wildcats' home opener on Saturday. That happened just two days after a drone disrupted the U.S. Open - one of the highest-profile events in professional sports. No one was hurt in either case, but authorities are not amused. Kentucky officials are deciding what to do with the student who was piloting the contraption. In New York, the drone's operator was charged with reckless endangerment.JUST WATCHED Drone laws still playing catch-up Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Drone laws still playing catch-up 01:49HAIL MARY