New York (CNN) Pope Francis gave the students of Our Lady Queen of Angels School an important assignment during his visit on Friday."I would like to give you some homework. Can I do that? It is a simple request, but very important," he told them."Please don't forget to pray for me, so that I can share with many people the joy of Jesus," he said. "Let us also pray so that many people can share the joy like yours."And joyous they were. When Francis arrived, dozens of school children were lined up outside of the school. At a beauty shop across the street, about 30 people who had been waiting since last night held up banners and scream out his name in Spanish: Francisco, Francisco!The students squealed and some shed tears of joy while taking selfies with the Pope."They tell me that one of the nice things about this school ... is that some of its students here, some of you, come from other places and many from other countries," Francis said. "That is nice!"The school, which serves 295 mostly Latino and black children, is in line with Francis' mission of serving immigrants, the marginalized and the poor. It also illustrates the Roman Catholic Church's struggles with changing times, diminishing congregations and a dwindling priesthood.Students from other schools were also in the audience.Patrick McAvoy, 17, a student at Albertus Magnus High School in Rockland County, handed the Pope a small bag with religious metals he wanted blessed by the Pontiff.Nicholas DiGrandi, 18, of Kennedy Catholic High School in upstate Somers, New York, asked the Pope to bless a photo of an aunt who died of a brain tumor one year ago.Christopher Diaz, 12, a student at Our Lady Queen of Angels School, was sweaty after waiting outside for hours for the pope to arrive. "I wasn't sweating anymore after seeing his smile," he said. "He took my hand."#CNNPope Christopher Diaz, 12, was still emotional after meeting #PopeFrancis at Our Lady Queen of Angels School. "I think I will feel like this forever," he said. A photo posted by Ray S치nchez (@raysancheznyc) on Sep 25, 2015 at 3:41pm PDTHe asked Francis to pray for his father. Christopher was still emotional after the papal motorcade left."I think I will feel like this forever," he said. "I got to meet the Pope."Francis told the students school can become a second home -- "one big family for all" -- where students learn to help each other, work as a team, and pursue dreams.For the third time since arriving in the U.S., Francis referenced Martin Luther King. "It is beautiful to have dreams. It is beautiful also to be able to fight for those dreams. Don't forget about that."The students showed him how to use a touch screen, which seemed a bit out the comfort zone for the man who's never owned a cell phone.#CNNPope Catholic school students prepare to greet #PopeFrancis with song at East Harlem school. #popeinnyc A video posted by Ray S치nchez (@raysancheznyc) on Sep 25, 2015 at 11:20am PDTAfter visiting with the students, the Pope met with immigrants and received gifts, including tools from day laborers, and a book with immigrants' stories.Ariel Mejia, 18, who one year ago arrived in the United States as an unaccompanied minor after crossing the Mexican border, presented Pope Francis with a soccer jersey. Another young man gave the pope a soccer ball. Then they put on a little soccer display for the smiling Francis."He said he would pray for us and asked us to pray for him," said Mejia, who is from Honduras.#CNNPope Ariel Mejia, 18, came to the U.S. as an unaccompanied minor from Honduras one year ago. Friday he presented #PopeFrancis with a soccer ball and a jersey. A photo posted by Ray S치nchez (@raysancheznyc) on Sep 25, 2015 at 3:53pm PDTIn a historic address to Congress on Thursday, Francis asked lawmakers to embrace millions of undocumented immigrants"We, the people of this continent, are not fearful of foreigners, because most of us were once foreigners," he told lawmakers, military brass, Supreme Court justices and Cabinet members."We must not be taken aback by their numbers, but rather view them as persons, seeing their faces and listening to their stories, trying to respond as best we can to their situation."Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves from the top of the steps as he prepares to depart Philadelphia International Airport on Sunday, September 27, on his way back to Rome. The Pope has been on a six-day visit to the United States, with stops in Washington, New York and Philadelphia. Hide Caption 1 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets families at the conclusion of Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27. Hide Caption 2 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A huge crowd gathers to celebrate Mass with Pope Francis on September 27 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 3 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis celebrates Mass at the World Meeting of Families at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia on September 27. Hide Caption 4 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves to the crowd from the popemobile during a parade along the Benjamin Franklin Parkway before Mass on September 27 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 5 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves to the audience as he leaves Saint Charles Borromeo Seminary in Wynnewood, Pennsylvania, after addressing bishops on September 27. Hide Caption 6 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Aretha Franklin performs as Pope Francis looks on during the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 7 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis takes the stage at the Festival of Families on September 26 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 8 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis speaks in front of Independence Hall, from the lectern used by President Abraham Lincoln during the Gettysburg Address, on Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 9 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis rides in the Popemobile along Independence Mall before delivering a speech outside Independence Hall on September 26. Hide Caption 10 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Residents in decorated apartment windows await the arrival of Pope Francis near Independence Mall on September 26. Hide Caption 11 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis blesses Communion during a Mass at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul, Saturday, September 26, in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 12 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis delivers Mass before a crowd of more than 2,000, consisting largely of priests, women religious and deacons on September 26. Hide Caption 13 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Members of the choir arrive at Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul prior to the arrival of Pope Francis on September 26. Hide Caption 14 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis kisses and blesses Michael Keating, 10, of Elverson, Pennsylvania, after arriving in Philadelphia on September 26. Keating has cerebral palsy and is the son of Chuck Keating, director of the Bishop Shanahan High School band, which performed at Pope Francis' airport arrival. Hide Caption 15 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The faithful receive communion at the snack bar during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25. Hide Caption 16 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis celebrates Mass at Madison Square Garden on Friday, September 25, in New York City. Hide Caption 17 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A crucifix hangs above members of the clergy during Mass at Madison Square Garden on September 25. Hide Caption 18 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis rides through New York's Central Park on September 25. Francis addressed the U.N. General Assembly and will head to Philadelphia this weekend for the World Meeting of Families, a large Catholic event expected to draw nearly 1 million pilgrims. Hide Caption 19 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets the crowd in New York's East Harlem Neighborhood on September 25. Hide Caption 20 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis places a white rose at the 9/11 memorial in New York on September 25. Hide Caption 21 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis attends a multireligious service at the 9/11 memorial. Hide Caption 22 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope arrives at the U.N. General Assembly to give his speech. Hide Caption 23 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis gives a thumbs-up after leading an evening prayer service Thursday, September 24, at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. Hide Caption 24 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Nuns celebrate at St. Patrick's Cathedral as they wait for the arrival of Pope Francis. Hide Caption 25 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis greets crowds as he arrives at St. Patrick's Cathedral. Hide Caption 26 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Crowds welcome Pope Francis to New York on September 24 after his arrival at John F. Kennedy International Airport. Hide Caption 27 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States A Pope Francis doll amuses the man himself at John F. Kennedy International Airport. Hide Caption 28 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis stops to look at a sculpture of Spanish-born missionary Junipero Serra at the U.S. Capitol in Washington on September 24. The Pope canonized Serra during a Mass the day before. Hide Caption 29 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Members of Congress accompany Pope Francis on the Speaker's Balcony on Capitol Hill on September 24. Hide Caption 30 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Congressional staffers and guests strain to view and photograph the Pope at the Capitol. Hide Caption 31 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis blesses a child at the Capitol. Hide Caption 32 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis addresses a joint meeting of the U.S. Congress on September 24. Vice President Joe Biden and House Speaker John Boehner sit behind him in the House chamber. Hide Caption 33 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Francis is the first Pope to address a joint meeting of Congress. Hide Caption 34 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Boehner welcomes Pope Francis before his speech to Congress. Hide Caption 35 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis canonizes Serra during a Mass in Washington on Wednesday, September 23. Hide Caption 36 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope celebrates Mass at the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception on September 23. Hide Caption 37 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Nuns wait for Pope Francis to arrive inside the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. Hide Caption 38 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis greets crowds during his parade in Washington on September 23. Hide Caption 39 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis reaches out to bless a child during the parade in Washington. Hide Caption 40 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States President Barack Obama hosts the Pope in the Oval Office of the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 41 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Obama, the Pope and first lady Michelle Obama greet the crowd during an arrival ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 42 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis addresses guests on the South Lawn of the White House. Hide Caption 43 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States People wave U.S. and Vatican flags as they wait for the Pope's arrival at the White House on September 23. Hide Caption 44 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Early on September 23, people gather along Pope Francis' parade route in Washington. Hide Caption 45 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis departs from Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland shortly after his flight landed on Tuesday, September 22. Hide Caption 46 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis waves from his car at Andrews Air Force Base. Hide Caption 47 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Pope Francis is escorted by the Obamas and their daughters after arriving in the country. Hide Caption 48 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States Clergy members brace for the wind as they stand on the tarmac at Andrews Air Force Base. Hide Caption 49 of 50 Photos: Pope Francis in the United States The Pope waves at Obama and his family. Hide Caption 50 of 50In addition to the East Harlem stop, the Jesuit Pope's itinerary included time with homeless people in Washington. Francis will also visit prisoners in Philadelphia."He's an instinctual politician and the people he relates to are those he regards as the most fragile," said Margaret Crahan, director of the Cuba program at the Institute of Latin American Studies at Columbia University."His persona is very much linked to relating to people in a very direct fashion. ... And he derives warmth from children."In a classroom at the Manhattan school, where nearly 70% of students are Hispanic and 22% black, the children will sing for the special guest -- himself a son of immigrants. They will pray and talk about community service and the environment.The visit comes at a time when New York has shuttered dozens of parochial schools in recent years in part because of demographic changes and diminishing enrollments."I hope his visit fundamentally changes the conversation about Catholic education in America," said Kathleen Porter-Magee, superintendent and chief academic officer at the Partnership for Inner-City Education, which manages Our Lady Queen of Angels and five other schools in the Bronx and Harlem."The headlines have been largely negative over the past several years ... People have talked about schools closing and struggling and Catholics moving out of the city to the suburbs. That's really put pressure on the schools, particularly those that serve our neediest students."#CNNPope A sign at home across the street from school #PopeFrancis will visit urges him to reopen shuttered church. #popeinnyc A photo posted by Ray S치nchez (@raysancheznyc) on Sep 25, 2015 at 10:20am PDTBefore his visit to the school, Francis addressed a global stage at the United Nations. He presented himself as a champion of the poor and suggested solutions for leaders to adopt to combat war, environmental destruction and poverty. Francis also joined an interfaith prayer service at the ground zero memorial.