(CNN) A New York Yankees legend has died. The Pope's in town. And you can now sing "Happy Birthday" in peace.It's Wednesday, and here are five things to know for your new day.YOGI BERRA"It ain't over 'til it's over." "It's deja vu, all over again." Yogi Berra was a baseball Hall of Famer and a national treasure, but through the years he became as well known for his humorous quotes -- Yogiisms -- as he was for his on-field exploits. Berra, who died last night at the age of 90, helped the New York Yankees win 10 championships during his 17 seasons with the men in pinstripes.POPE FRANCISHello: The Pope began his first visit to the United State yesterday, and everybody was there to greet him when he landed. And we do mean everybody: The President. The Vice President. Michelle Obama and the girls. Priests. School children. And a band. Yes, it was quite the welcome. Francis left the ceremony in a black Fiat hatchback -- no limo for this Pope known for his love for the poor -- and he had no public events last night. But he needed a night of rest to prepare for the next couple of days: a visit to the White House, an address before a joint session of Congress, a visit to the 9/11 memorial, a speech at the United Nations, a large Mass in Philadelphia.JUST WATCHED What Pope Francis will be doing at The White House Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What Pope Francis will be doing at The White House 01:08PRESIDENTIAL VISITHello again: The Pope's trip isn't the only big-time, VIP-type visit happening this week. Yesterday Chinese President Xi Jinping started his U.S. tour in Seattle, where he meet with political leaders, business executives and tech industry types. He then heads to Washington for meetings and a state dinner with President Obama. So what will they talk about? Chinese cyber hacks of U.S. government computers? The building of "airstrips" in the South China Sea? The intentional devaluing of Chinese currency, which caused worldwide market turmoil a couple of weeks ago? Should be fascinating dinner conversation.JUST WATCHED Pres. Xi expresses gratitute for U.S. friendship Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pres. Xi expresses gratitute for U.S. friendship 02:30PRESCRIPTION DRUGSLowered: This week has been a good one for Walter Palmer, the dentist who killed Cecil the lion. Why? Because he's officially no longer the "most-hated person in America." That title solidly belongs to one This week has been a good one for Walter Palmer, the dentist who killed Cecil the lion. Why? Because he's officially no longer the "most-hated person in America." That title solidly belongs to one Martin Shkreli , the CEO of Turing, a pharmaceutical company. Shkreli raised the price on a drug used by AIDS and cancer patients from $13.50 to $750 virtually overnight. Outrage and price gouging allegations ensued, but Shkreli wasn't having it. He defended himself in media interviews and on social media, saying the price hike was "a great thing for society." But last night, he seemed to change his tune, saying that the drug's price would be lowered to something "more affordable." How kind of him.JUST WATCHED Hillary Clinton slams pharmaceutical company in tweet Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hillary Clinton slams pharmaceutical company in tweet 02:17HAPPY BIRTHDAY LAWSUIT