If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Indonesia plans to relocate its capital from Jakarta because it's one of the fastest-sinking cities in the world.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President TrumpThe President's new plan on immigration takes direct aim at migrants who seek asylum . In a memo to the attorney general and secretary of Homeland Security, Trump seeks to get action by the end of July on three goals:• adjudicate asylum applications within 180 days (it currently can take much longer);• require a fee for asylum and work permit applications;• bar migrants from getting work authorization before any protection is granted if they have entered or tried to enter the US illegally.Meanwhile, Trump, his family and his businesses are suing two banks to keep them from turning over financial records to Congress. And finally, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein -- often a target of the President's criticism because of his involvement with the Russia investigation -- submitted his resignation from the Justice Department, effective May 11.JUST WATCHED Who is Rod Rosenstein? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Rod Rosenstein? 02:252. Terror plot foiledA terror plot planned for last weekend was stopped, the Justice Department said. Mark Steven Domingo, a former US Army soldier, was arrested and charged with plotting terror attacks in Southern California. Domingo allegedly wanted to use pressure cooker bombs to blow up a white nationalist rally in Long Beach. But the person Domingo asked for help to make the bombs turned out to be an FBI informant, officials said. Domingo, a recent convert to Islam, wanted to bomb the rally as retribution for the mass shooting at mosques in New Zealand that left dozens dead, as well as other attacks on Muslims.JUST WATCHED US attorney on how feds thwarted 'chilling' terror plot Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US attorney on how feds thwarted 'chilling' terror plot 02:353. JapanForget about the Iron Throne. The eyes of the world are on Japan's Chrysanthemum Throne today as Emperor Akihito steps down . Akihito, 85, became the first Japanese monarch in modern history to abdicate his throne. He's doing so because of the health problems he's endured in recent years. The Emperor is still quite popular and will be remembered for his close connection with his people. He also expressed "deep remorse" for his country's actions during World War II. He'll be replaced by 59-year-old Crown Prince Naruhito , who will be inaugurated tomorrow as the 126th emperor.JUST WATCHED Watch: Japanese Emperor Akihito abdicates throne Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch: Japanese Emperor Akihito abdicates throne 03:234. Renewable energyThe US is coming up on a big milestone in energy. For the first time, the renewable energy sector -- that includes hydro, wind and solar power -- is generating more electricity than coal . It's happening this month (which ends today), according to a new report from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, and it might happen again in May, too. There are two reasons for this: Investments have made renewable energy technologies cheaper, and there's more demand for cleaner energy because of concerns about climate change.JUST WATCHED Coal mines closing despite Trump's promises Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Coal mines closing despite Trump's promises 03:245. John SingletonJUST WATCHED Oscar-nominated director John Singleton's most memorable films Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Oscar-nominated director John Singleton's most memorable films 01:18BREAKFAST BROWSETwitter troublesJPMorgan Chase told its customers they'd have more money in the bank if they stopped splurging on coffee or cabs . Social media let 'em have it.JUST WATCHED JPMorgan CEO: US economy is 'fundamentally anti-poor' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH JPMorgan CEO: US economy is 'fundamentally anti-poor' 01:39From Russia, with loveA whale trained by the Russian military ? No, it's not the plot of the next James Bond movie. It's the explanation given for why a beluga whale turned up in Norway wearing a harness.JUST WATCHED Russians are using whales for intelligence Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Russians are using whales for intelligence 02:13Stereotypes shatteredFrom the heartJUST WATCHED Donor's family listens for heartbeat in recipient Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Donor's family listens for heartbeat in recipient 01:29HAPPENING LATERIt's (finally) infrastructure weekPresident Trump meets this morning with Congressional Democrats -- including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer -- to talk about fixing the nation's crumbling infrastructure . It's the one area where the President and the Democrats could actually make some progress.JUST WATCHED One of the US' oldest train tunnels needs help (2018) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH One of the US' oldest train tunnels needs help (2018) 02:34TODAY'S QUOTE"Having the measles was not a fun thing."Actress Maureen McCormick (you know, Marcia from "The Brady Bunch") speaking out against an anti-vaccination group that's using an old clip of her from the show to advance its agendaJUST WATCHED Anti-vaxxers turn 'Brady Bunch' clip into a meme Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Anti-vaxxers turn 'Brady Bunch' clip into a meme 01:02TODAY'S NUMBER18The number of "Jeopardy!" episodes that professional sports bettor James Holzhauer has won. He triumphed in last night's game by ... wait for it ... $18.TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Storms continue for the Central US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Storms continue for the Central US 01:31AND FINALLYWho you gonna call?