If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) We've got big breaking news this morning: WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has been arrested in London at the Ecuadorian Embassy, where he's spent years in asylum. Follow live updates here.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. SudanSudan's President is under house arrest after stepping down . Omar al-Bashir, who had been in power for three decades, was ousted after thousands took to the streets in recent months to rise up against him. The protests started as a demonstration against the mounting cost of living in the country but escalated into a push for Bashir's removal, with mass rallies and sit-ins outside the presidential compound and army headquarters. A photo of a 22-year-old activist chanting from atop a car this week went viral. As word got out that Bashir had been forced out, people flooded the streets of the capital, Khartoum, in celebration. Keep up with the latest updates here2. Louisiana church firesJUST WATCHED Parishioner says she's praying for the suspect Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Parishioner says she's praying for the suspect 02:093. William BarrDemocrats are feeling some kind of way about Attorney General William Barr -- and that feeling would be anger. Barr outraged congressional Democrats after he suggested Donald Trump's 2016 campaign was spied on and said he'll investigate the FBI's actions that led to the Russia probe. Barr didn't offer any evidence to back up his shocking statement. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi fumed that Barr was " going off the rails ," and other Dems accused Barr of floating the spying claim just to make Trump happy. Republicans were thrilled at the news, defending Barr as "an honorable man" and saying it was about time someone looked into how the whole Russia investigation began.JUST WATCHED Barr: 'I think spying did occur' on 2016 Trump campaign Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Barr: 'I think spying did occur' on 2016 Trump campaign 02:444. BrexitOnce again, Brexit is delayed. This time, it's being put off until Halloween, after the European Union agreed to give the United Kingdom until October 31 to figure out how it will leave the trading bloc. EU leaders seemed to be growing weary of the whole thing (we feel their pain) and were unconvinced by Prime Minister Theresa May's promise that the UK could get its act together by her proposed exit date at the end of June. Donald Tusk, president of the European Council, had a stark warning for the Brits: "Please do not waste this time."JUST WATCHED Here's your 'WTF' guide to the Brexit chaos Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's your 'WTF' guide to the Brexit chaos 03:065. WeatherThe late, great Prince once recorded a song called, "Sometimes It Snows in April." Well, that time is now in the Midwest, where a big spring storm is dumping heavy snow and producing blizzard conditions . At least 12 states are under storm warnings, but the brunt of it will be felt today in the Dakotas and Minnesota. South Dakota could get hit with 30 inches of snow as the storm makes its way into Canada. Of course, getting around will be a nightmare for the 1.6 million people in the storm's path, with travel almost impossible in Nebraska until tomorrow morning. All this snowfall, of course, could lead to more flooding in the region.JUST WATCHED April blizzard continues to impact millions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH April blizzard continues to impact millions 01:51THIS JUST IN ...No charges?Criminal charges against a former Navy commander and a former crew member in the deadly USS Fitzgerald collision in 2017 are expected to be droppedJUST WATCHED Initial investigation blames Navy for crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Initial investigation blames Navy for crash 01:16BREAKFAST BROWSECosmic close-upYou saw that first-ever image of a black hole yesterday, right? You can thank this grad student for the historic photo.JUST WATCHED How the first photo of a black hole was captured Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How the first photo of a black hole was captured 01:25Unfriendly skiesYou know the passengers on an Alaska Airlines flight were ticked off after one of them forced the plane to be diverted after trying to light a cigarette -- twice'It's yours'She's 20 years old and raising her five younger siblings after their parents died. A county sheriff's office in Florida just bought her a carKim K., Esquire?Model. Instagram influencer. Attorney? Yep, Kim Kardashian West wants to be a lawyer, so she's apprenticing with a law firm to prepare for the California bar exam.JUST WATCHED Kardashian pushes clemency at White House Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kardashian pushes clemency at White House 01:42Feed the needThe hungry teen was caught shoplifting in a 7-Eleven. Instead of calling the cops, the store owner gave him foodCash is still kingThanks to pressure from activists, cashless Amazon Go stores will start accepting ... cashJUST WATCHED Future of retail brings technology to stores Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Future of retail brings technology to stores 02:20HAPPENING LATER'Celebration of Life'Thousands are expected at the Staples Center -- and in the streets -- this afternoon for rapper Nipsey Hussle's memorial service in Los Angeles.JUST WATCHED Police arrest suspect in fatal shooting of Nipsey Hussle Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police arrest suspect in fatal shooting of Nipsey Hussle 01:43TODAY'S NUMBER2033The year NASA wants to put astronauts on Mars (which means a planned moon landing would be moved up to 2024)JUST WATCHED Organic matter found on Mars Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Organic matter found on Mars 00:56AND FINALLYDownward dogs