(CNN) Here is a look at the life of Melania Trump , wife of US President Donald Trump.Personal:Birth date: April 26, 1970Birth place: Novo Mesto, Yugoslavia (now Slovenia)Birth name: Melanija KnavsFather: Viktor KnavsMother: Amalija (Ulcnik) KnavsMarriage: Donald Trump (January 22, 2005-present)Children: BarronEducation: University of Ljubljana, Yugoslavia (now Slovenia)Other Facts:Changed the spelling of her name from Melanija Knavs to Melania Knauss while modeling professionally.Speaks six languages: Slovenian, French, Serbian, German, Italian and English.She is the second foreign-born first lady in US history, after Louisa Adams, the English-born wife of sixth US president John Quincy Adams, who served from 1825 to 1829.Became a model in Yugoslavia at the age of 16.She has appeared in magazines such as GQ, Vanity Fair and Sports Illustrated.Timeline:1996 - Moves to the United States, heading to New York to work for ID Models.1998 - Meets Donald Trump at a party at the Kit Kat Club in New York.2000 - Appears in the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit issue.March 19, 2001 - Obtains her green card.July 2006 - Becomes a US citizen.2010 - Launches her jewelry line, Melania Timepieces and Jewelry, on QVC.April 2013 - Launches a caviar-based skincare line, Melania Caviar Complexe C6.July 18, 2016 - Parts of her campaign speech during the 2016 Republican National Convention are alleged to have been Parts of her campaign speech during the 2016 Republican National Convention are alleged to have been plagiarized from a speech delivered by First Lady Michelle Obama at the Democratic National Convention in 2008. A speechwriter working for Donald Trump's company later assumes responsibility for the similarities in the passages in the two speeches.September 1, 2016 - against British newspaper The Daily Mail and the US-based blog Tarpley accusing them of publishing claims that she was an escort in the 1990s. The Daily Mail and Tarpley both issue retractions. Files a defamation lawsuit against British newspaper The Daily Mail and the US-based blog Tarpley accusing them of publishing claims that she was an escort in the 1990s. The Daily Mail and Tarpley both issue retractions.November 3, 2016 - During a campaign speech in Philadelphia, Trump During a campaign speech in Philadelphia, Trump announces she intends to make ending social media bullying her focus as First Lady.November 20, 2016 - Donald Trump confirms he will live in the White House as president, but says Donald Trump confirms he will live in the White House as president, but says Melania and their son, Barron, will remain in New York initially, so that Barron can finish out the year at the same school.February 2, 2017 - A Maryland judge dismisses Trump's defamation lawsuit against British newspaper The Daily Mail on jurisdictional grounds. A Maryland judge dismisses Trump's defamation lawsuit against British newspaper The Daily Mail on jurisdictional grounds. Last week, it was ruled that Trump's lawsuit against blogger Webster Griffin Tarpley will move forward.February 6, 2017 - . This time it is filed in the Supreme Court of New York where its publisher, Mail Media Inc., has offices. Trump's lawyers refile the defamation lawsuit against British newspaper The Daily Mail . This time it is filed in the Supreme Court of New York where its publisher, Mail Media Inc., has offices.February 7, 2017 - Trump's defamation lawsuit against Tarpley is settled.April 12, 2017 - Trump's defamation lawsuit against The Daily Mail and Mail Online is Trump's defamation lawsuit against The Daily Mail and Mail Online is settled for $2.9 millionMarch 20, 2018 - At a roundtable event with technology executives, At a roundtable event with technology executives, Trump addresses those who have criticized her for taking on a platform that includes cyberbullying saying, "I have been criticized for my commitment to tackling this issue and I know that will continue. But it will not stop me from doing what I know is right."June 17, 2018 - "Mrs. Trump hates to see children separated from their families and hopes both sides of the aisle can finally come together to achieve successful immigration reform. She believes we need to be a country that follows all laws, but also a country that governs with heart." Issues a statement, via her spokeswoman, expressing concern about family separation at the border: "Mrs. Trump hates to see children separated from their families and hopes both sides of the aisle can finally come together to achieve successful immigration reform. She believes we need to be a country that follows all laws, but also a country that governs with heart."June 21, 2018 - Visits facilities in Texas that are housing children separated from their parents at the border.