What does health mean to you? It's a tricky question. Some people love pounding weights and sprinkling kale on everything, while others would rather have their toes chewed off than step foot in a gym. That's OK! We're all on our own journey, with our own abilities and activity levels and tolerance for leafy greens. Plus, staying healthy isn't just about keeping in shape. Studies have found that happiness is actually linked to a longer life . So congratulations, you're already doing something healthy for yourself right this minute, by nourishing your heart with some Good Stuff! Namaste.Our favorites this weekGet going with some of our most popular good news stories of the weekA forever familySometimes, families aren't built through blood; they're built through love. Liz Smith is a pediatric nurse at a Massachusetts hospital who always dreamed of becoming a mother, but struggled with infertility. Then, in 2016, she met a little girl who would change her life. Gisele was 3 months old when she came into Smith's hospital. She was born premature and her mother had used drugs, resulting in some serious health problems. On top of it all, after several months in the hospital, the infant had had no visitors. A few nurses put two and two together and persuaded Smith to act as a medical foster parent for the girl . The moment they met, Smith knew she was destined to be her mother. After years of legal battles and meetings with Gisele's birth parents, the two officially became mother and daughter last October. "We talk about the power of love, but to witness how it can transform a life and to witness how it transformed her life and mine is unbelievable," Smith told CNN.A trip of a lifetimeWe love it when good things happen to people who really, really need them. Richard Beare of Charlotte, North Carolina, was recently diagnosed with stage 4 liver cancer, so it was high time life threw him a win. He got one, in the form of a $250,000 prize from a scratch-off ticket . Now Beare says he and his wife are going to do something they've always dreamed of: take a trip to Italy. "I want to travel while I can still enjoy myself. My wife has always wanted to go to Italy, since that's where her descendants are from," Beare says. "Now I can take her. "Breaking good groundYou don't need to be a country music fan to nod your head to this one. Brad Paisley and his wife, Kimberly, just broke ground on a Nashville grocery store that will be free for people in need (yep, that's Brad up there in the backhoe). The couple was inspired after volunteering with their kids at a similar place in California. Paisley told the crowd at the groundbreaking ceremony that the goal was to take away "the sting of embarrassment" that families may feel because they need help. Kimberly Williams-Paisley pointed out that 1 in 7 people and 1 in 5 children in Nashville deal with food insecurity. "We love this idea of a free grocery store where people can come in and make choices for their families and kids can see their parents in a position of power making choices for the family," she said.Raise a glass to...Addy Tritt, who , who bought out her local Payless and sent all 204 pairs of shoes to survivors of last month's Nebraska floods . Tritt knew her Payless in Hays, Kansas, was going out of business, so she marched in and scooped up all of their stock. Through the power of Facebook and some help from her alma mater, Fort Hays State University, Tritt arranged for all of the shoes to be transported on a tractor-trailer from Kansas to Nebraska, where they will be distributed by a local agricultural science program.You gotta see thisOh, what's this ancient, monstrous creature? It's a WHALE. Seriously. Cetaceans, the group that includes today's whales and dolphins, evolved 50 million years ago from small four-legged animals with hooves. So the ancient whale actually walked on four legs and moved like a giant otter and is definitely not something you want to be sharing the ocean with. WHEW. Thank goodness for evolution.Wanna get away?How would you like to spend the night at one of the most famous museums in the world? Airbnb is holding a contest, and one lucky winner will be able to do just that at the Louvre in Paris . If sleeping among countless masterworks of art isn't enough to pique your interest, maybe the adorable mini I.M. Pei pyramid tent -- complete with a billion-dollar view -- will win you over.Tell us something goodSan AntonioHelen Costa-Giles started trying to get in shape after doctors warned her that her weight was affecting her health. After eating better for a while, and losing 60 pounds in the process, she decided to start working out. On a whim, Costa-Giles posted to Facebook asking if anyone wanted to join her bright and early for a 4 a.m. sweat sesh. People actually said yes, and day by day, word spread. Now, a whole group of people gather at her house before the crack of dawn to get in a workout, share stories and cheer each other on . "Having somebody there next to you and having somebody on the same journey with you is really powerful," she says. "I think once you help somebody else in their own health journey, it does a lot for you."Impact your worldHere's a solution for homelessness that doesn't have an expiration date. The Community First! Village in Austin, Texas, provides 100 RVs and 125 micro homes where formerly homeless people can put down roots . That's right, once they move in, they never have to leave. Having a roof over your head is one thing, but founder Alan Graham says the strong, caring bonds these new neighbors form is just as important. "We believe that housing will never solve homelessness, but community will," Graham told CNN. "Just stuffing somebody into a shelter or a house with four walls and a roof is nowhere near sufficient. It's all about the relationship here."Shameless animal video