(CNN) The United States is almost drought-free, with the lowest amount of land officially having drought conditions since tracking began in 2000.According to the United States Drought Monitor, about 2% of the country is in drought.Recent heavy precipitation across much of the country helped.The Drought Monitor places drought into four categories, D1 through D4, which translate to moderate, severe, extreme, and exceptional drought.Only 2.58% of the total U.S. and Puerto Rico are experiencing moderate drought or worse (D1-D4), which is also a new low record in the US #Drought Monitor's 20-year history. To explore the data, visit: https://t.co/AZXLYOFuRf pic.twitter.com/Myiju4aOVPNo extreme or exceptional drought conditions for the USWhile a few areas are still in drought, the situation has improved greatly since this time last year.In April 2018, almost one-third of the US saw some level of drought, with almost 315,000 square miles falling under the two highest categories, extreme and exceptional.No areas are currently classified as extreme or exceptional.With temperatures warming and summer on the way, drought could reemerge, but NOAA's spring outlook calls for above average precipitation to continue through June for much of the country.Still, according to David Miskus, a meteorologist from NOAA's Climate Prediction Center, some areas, like those along the West Coast, have their dry season in the summer and fall, "so they should normally dry out over the next several months."Abnormally wet conditions may help western wildfires... for nowThe recent wet weather across places like California could help to dampen the threat of wildfires for the next couple of months, Miskus says.But the extra rain and snow could bring some consequences in the upcoming warm season."This has led to extra growth that normally dies out over the dry and warm summer and fall," Miskus told CNN."Later this year, all this extra dead vegetation may provide extra fuel during California's normal fire season," which is typically late summer and fall, Miskus said.Is climate change playing a role?California's mega-drought of 2012-18 was worsened by climate change, according to scientistsBoth the length and severity of the drought allowed scientists to assess the role climate change played in it through a type of statistical analysis known as climate attribution.Photos: California's historic drought Inmates at a state prison in Vacaville, California, install a drought-tolerant garden in October. The garden will be watered using reclaimed water from the prison's kitchen. California is entering its fifth year of severe drought. Hide Caption 1 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought California State Assemblyman Devon Mathis speaks to members of the media after he helped secure a donation of 100,000 water bottles in September. More than 300 homes in Porterville, California, were out of running water because of dried-up wells. Hide Caption 2 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Evacuee James Logan embraces his wife, Lisa, as they listen to an update about a wildfire in Clearlake Oakes, California, in August. Drought conditions have fueled numerous wildfires across the state. Hide Caption 3 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Firefighters hike down a hill in Clearlake, California, as they mop up hot spots from the Rocky Fire in August. Hide Caption 4 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A golfer in San Francisco hits a shot in July. After Gov. Jerry Brown ordered a statewide water-use reduction of 25%, golf courses have been struggling to keep their fairways and greens watered. Hide Caption 5 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought People picnic in July on the sandy bottom of Mirror Lake, which is normally covered with water at Yosemite National Park. Hide Caption 6 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A man applies green paint to a brown lawn in Novato, California, in May. Hide Caption 7 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A close-up of the dry Guadalupe Creek, as seen in San Jose, California, in April. Hide Caption 8 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Workers install artificial grass at a home in Burlingame, California, in April. Hide Caption 9 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Motorists in Rancho Cordova, California, pass a sign in April reminding them to reduce water use. Hide Caption 10 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A woman in Sequoia National Park looks up at barren terrain typically populated by skiers in April. Hide Caption 11 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought California Gov. Jerry Brown, right, walks with Frank Gehrke, chief of the California Cooperative Snow Surveys Program for the Department of Water Resources, near Echo Summit, California, in April. Gehrke said this was the first time since he has been conducting the survey that he found no snow at that location at that time of the year. Hide Caption 12 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought People hike along a ridge overlooking the Griffith Observatory, where vegetation was drying out in Los Angeles in March 2015. Hide Caption 13 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought In March 2015, a power boat sits on a Lake McClure parking lot that used to be underwater in La Grange, California. Hide Caption 14 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Low water is seen at the dam of Lake Success, near East Porterville, California, in February 2015. Hide Caption 15 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought This picture taken from a helicopter shows a drought-affected area near Los Altos Hills, California, in July 2014. Hide Caption 16 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A woman walks her dog in San Francisco in July 2014. Hide Caption 17 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A worker washes the sidewalk in front of a San Francisco hotel in July 2014. Hide Caption 18 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought In June 2014, a pedestrian walks by a sign posted in front of the lawn at the California State Capitol in Sacramento. Hide Caption 19 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Residents photograph the burning ruins of their home, which was destroyed in a wildfire in Carlsbad, California, in May 2014. Hide Caption 20 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Volunteers pack bags of oatmeal at a San Francisco food bank in May 2014. The longstanding drought has contributed to an increase in food prices. Hide Caption 21 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Fingerling Chinook salmon are dumped into a holding pen as they are transferred from a truck into the Sacramento River in March 2014. Low water levels forced wildlife officials to truck more than 400,000 fish nearly 300 miles. They usually make the trip on their own. Hide Caption 22 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A tractor plows a field in Firebaugh, California, in February 2014. Almond farmer Barry Baker had 1,000 acres -- 20% -- of his almond trees removed because he didn't have access to enough water to keep them alive. Hide Caption 23 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Plumbing technician Todd Snider installs an aerator at a home in Novato in February 2014. Californians have been installing water-saving devices in their homes to reduce consumption. Hide Caption 24 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A worker installs an artificial lawn in front of an apartment building in San Jose in January 2014. Hide Caption 25 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A car sits at the bottom of the Almaden Reservoir in San Jose in January 2014. Hide Caption 26 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Rocky shores are exposed by the low waters of Morris Reservoir, on the San Gabriel River near Azusa, California, in January 2014. Hide Caption 27 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought During a news conference in San Francisco in January 2014, Gov. Jerry Brown holds a chart showing the statewide average precipitation. The governor declared a drought emergency for the state, saying it faced "perhaps the worst drought that California has ever seen since records (began) about 100 years ago." Hide Caption 28 of 28But the recent wet period is a relatively short-term trend, according to Miskus, making those comparisons difficult."It is not uncommon for the US to go through periods with nearly drought-free conditions," Miskus said.However, Brian Fuchs, from the National Drought Mitigation Center, notes last month was the seventh wettest March in 125 years, according to the Palmer Drought Index, which is one tool that goes into creating the drought monitor.So, while fluctuations between wet and dry periods are common, the current conditions are above average.