(CNN) Instead of going over the rainbow, you can dive right in at this Australia lake with naturally mind-blowing colors . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President Trump in the UKTrump and first lady Melania Trump will also have tea today with Queen Elizabeth I I, his first visit with the monarch. And, oh yeah, the "Trump Baby" protest balloon is flying high over Parliament. You can see it here2. Strzok hearingWell, that was ... something. Embattled FBI agent Peter Strzok took on House Republicans in a mammoth, 10-hour hearing that was as contentious and chaotic as any we've ever seen. Strzok forcefully defended his actions in the Hillary Clinton email and Russia investigations and tried to explain those infamous anti-Trump text messages (which he was forced to read out loud).But Republicans were having none of it, saying the texts prove that not only was Strzok biased against the President but so was the entire Russia investigation being conducted by special counsel Robert Mueller. There were shouting matches between lawmakers and threats to hold Strzok in contempt. When it was all over, not many minds seemed to have been changed. CNN national security analyst Josh Campbell said Congress embarrassed itself, while Collinson declared it wasn't "democracy's finest hour." Here are nine key moments from the hearing.JUST WATCHED See Strzok hit back at Gowdy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See Strzok hit back at Gowdy 02:343. SyriaThe town where Syria's bloody civil war started more than seven years ago has been retaken by government forces . Syrian state media said troops yesterday entered the town of Dara'a and raised the nation's flag. It was there that the uprising against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad began in March 2011, after graffiti taunting Assad led to the arrest and torture of teen boys. Now, with millions of Syrians killed or displaced , the government's retaking of Dara'a may well signal an end to the war.4. AT&T-Time WarnerThe drama apparently isn't over in AT&T's purchase of Time Warner. The Justice Department said it will appeal a judge's approval of the deal. An appeal might be tough sledding for Justice, though. The judge in the case never seemed to buy the government's argument that consumers would be harmed if the deal went through. AT&T has since changed the name of Time Warner to WarnerMedia, which is the parent company of CNN (and this humble newsletter). AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson said his company is prepared and "not worried" about the appeal. It's still unclear how this is playing with other companies that saw the ruling as a green light to pursue mergers.JUST WATCHED Stelter on the AT&T deal and CNN's future Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Stelter on the AT&T deal and CNN's future 04:305. EmmysNetflix seems to have beaten HBO at its own game with its investment in original programming (a strategy HBO worked for years to great success), paying off with 112 Emmy nominations , edging out HBO's 108. It's the first time this century any company's beaten HBO in the Emmy nods race and highlights the banner year for streaming services, with shows like Netflix's "The Crown" and Hulu's "The Handmaid's Tale" earning multiple nominations.JUST WATCHED Actress makes Emmy history Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Actress makes Emmy history 01:39TODAY'S QUOTE"Intense, but totally worth it."Stormy Daniels, on her arrest at a Columbus, Ohio strip club. The charges were dropped , and Daniels performed last night at a different Ohio club.BREAKFAST BROWSECaught on cameraThe Montreal family thought squirrels were eating their tomatoes. A check of their security camera revealed a human culpritSaying good-byeGarrett loved Batman and Thor, and hated pants, needles and cancer. The remarkable 5-year-old prepared his own obit before he died last week.Building chaosBuild-A-Bear had to shut down lines for its " Pay Your Age Day " event and offer vouchers after massive crowds overwhelmed stores.JUST WATCHED Families go nuts for Build-A-Bear sale Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Families go nuts for Build-A-Bear sale 01:25World's largestAttention avocado toast-loving millenials. You might want to make your way to Australia, where they're growing "Avozillas" -- avocados as big as your face.JUST WATCHED Giant avocados on sale in Australia Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Giant avocados on sale in Australia 00:48TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeSouthwest Airlines said it'll stop serving what complementary item to passengers?A. pretzelsB. sodaC. coffeeD. peanutsAnd to celebrate the season premiere of CNN's Original Series " The History of Comedy " (Sunday night at 10 ET), test your comedy knowledge with CNN's new audio quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."TODAY'S NUMBER19 centsThat's how much the stock for MoviePass , the popular movie subscription service, is worth. But the company's CEO says everything is fine.JUST WATCHED MoviePass CEO on how $10/month movies is possible Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH MoviePass CEO on how $10/month movies is possible 04:16AND FINALLYSoothing sounds