(CNN) Which state leads the nation in volunteering? A new survey says you'll find a lot of volunteers in the Beehive State. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Missouri tourist boat tragedyAt least 13 people died after a tourist boat overturned and sank in a lake near Branson, Missouri, during a thunderstorm. Some of the dead are children. Others remain missing after the capsizing on Table Rock Lake. The duck boat was an amphibious vessel that travels on both land and water. These boats are popular in tourist destinations such as Branson.2. Trump and Putin, the sequelPresident Donald Trump and the White House have been in damage control mode since he left that podium in Helsinki, Finland, after a disastrous post-summit news conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin. So a lot of people are scratching their heads about Trump inviting Putin to the White House this fall, especially after Trump said he agreed with US intelligence agencies that Putin ordered the election-related cyberattacks during the 2016 presidential election. It seems the President is doubling down on his Russia strategy, even as he continues to weather intense, bipartisan criticism over it.JUST WATCHED Intelligence chief's shocked reaction to Putin invite Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Intelligence chief's shocked reaction to Putin invite 01:313. BrexitOne of the thorniest issues in separating the UK from the European Union concerns the Irish border. That dispute will be in full public view this morning. In a speech in Belfast, Northern Ireland, UK Prime Minister Theresa May is expected to say that the British won't accept the EU's so-called backstop plan , in which Northern Ireland would remain closely tied to European regulations after Britain leaves the bloc, in the event the two sides fail to reach an agreement on a future relationship.The backstop plan seeks to avoid a "hard" border between Northern Ireland, which will leave the EU as part of the UK, and the Republic of Ireland, which remains in the bloc. Border infrastructure such as customs and security posts were removed as part of the Good Friday Agreement that brought peace to Northern Ireland in the late 1990s. But if the backstop plan is implemented, it would effectively create a border down the Irish Sea between the island of Ireland and Great Britain. May says that's unacceptable and instead proposes that any backstop plan should apply to the entire UK.JUST WATCHED How Brexit could end flights in and out of the UK Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Brexit could end flights in and out of the UK 03:304. Disney vs. ComcastComcast threw in the towel in its battle with Disney over the assets of 21st Century Fox. Comcast had bid $65 billion for Fox's movie studio, along with Fox's regional sports networks and cable channels such as FX and National Geographic. Disney had bid $71 billion. But the war between the two companies isn't over; only the battlefield is changing. The next front in the fight is UK broadcaster Sky News. Comcast says it will still pursue a purchase of Sky , even though Disney -- through 21st Century Fox -- wants it, too.5. NFL and the National AnthemThe NFL is putting its National Anthem policy on hold for now . The league and its players' union said they've reached a "standstill agreement" to give the two sides more time to talk about what should happen if players protest social injustice and police brutality during the National Anthem. "No new rules relating to the anthem will be issued or enforced for the next several weeks while these confidential discussions are ongoing," an NFL statement says. In May, NFL owners OK'd the policy, which requires players to "stand and show respect for the flag and the anthem."JUST WATCHED #TakeAKnee heats up on and off the field Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH #TakeAKnee heats up on and off the field 02:26TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeWorld Cup 2018 has come to an end. Which country took home the trophy?A. EnglandB. FranceC. CroatiaD. RussiaPlay Total Recall: The CNN news quiz and see if your answer is correct. And don't forget you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Free for allYou can get free fries every Friday for the rest of the year at McDonald's -- Fry Fridays? -- but, as in all good things, there's a catch.The Boss on BroadwayCan't get tickets to see Bruce Springsteen's Tony-winning, one-man show. Don't fret. Starting in December you can watch it all on NetflixMedical miracleSomeone donated $3 million to the University of Houston's new medical school, enough cash to cover the tuition of the school's first 30 students.Helping handsStarbucks is about to open a new branch in Washington where every single employee is proficient in sign languageJUST WATCHED You'll be able to order in sign language at this Starbucks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH You'll be able to order in sign language at this Starbucks 01:06AND FINALLY ...(Editor's note: He's too modest to make a big deal about it, but today is Doug's birthday. So, we're hijacking his video of the day and replacing it with this epic birthday song. Feel free to bombard him with your own good wishes at douglas.criss@cnn.com -- Saeed!)