Redding, California (CNN) The Carr Fire raging in Northern California is so large and hot that it is creating its own localized weather system with variable strong winds, making it difficult for experts to predict which way the blaze will spread.At least 19 people were still reported missing in Shasta County, California, officials said at a community meeting Monday evening, after shifting winds, dry fuel and steep terrain helped the monstrous fire engulf more than 103,000 acres.Authorities have received 48 missing person reports but 29 people have since been found safe, according to Shasta County Sheriff Tom Bosenko.The fire, which started a week ago, has burned 103,772 acres and is just 23% contained, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, known as Cal Fire. It has scorched an area bigger than the size of Denver.Flames have destroyed at least 966 structures in the area, making it one of the top 10 most destructive wildfires in California history. In fact, seven of the 12 most destructive fires have happened since 2015."We are seeing more destructive, larger fires burning at rates that we have historically never seen," said Jonathan Cox, Cal Fire regional battalion chief.More than 3,300 fire personnel are battling the flames with more than 330 engines and 17 helicopters, Cal Fire reportedPhotos: Massive wildfires scorching California A man cleans up red fire retardant dropped by a firefighting jet in Lake Elsinore, California on Sunday, August 12. Hide Caption 1 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A flag flies at half-staff amid the rubble of homes burned in the Carr Fire, on Sunday, August 12. Hide Caption 2 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Homes destroyed by a wildfire in Redding, California are seen from an aerial view on Friday, August 10 Hide Caption 3 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A helicopter drops water on flames in Lake Elsinore, California, on Friday, August 10. Hide Caption 4 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Rose Wyckoff holds up three kittens August 10 in a Redding neighborhood that has been destroyed by the Carr Fire. Hide Caption 5 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California King Bass, 6, and his 5-year-old sister, Princess, watch the Holy Fire burn from the top of their parents' car in Lake Elsinore on Thursday, August 9. Hide Caption 6 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters monitor a backfire while battling part of the Mendocino Complex Fire near Ladoga on Tuesday, August 7. Hide Caption 7 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A plane drops fire retardant behind homes as the Holy Fire burns in Lake Elsinore on Wednesday, August 8. Hide Caption 8 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters work on stopping the Mendocino Complex Fire, which is made up of the River and Ranch fires. Hide Caption 9 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter makes his way down a hillside while battling the Mendocino Complex Fire on August 7. Hide Caption 10 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A supertanker jet flies above the Holy Fire near Lake Elsinore on August 7. Hide Caption 11 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Crystal Easter comforts her dogs as they flee a wildfire in Spring Valley on Monday, August 6. Hide Caption 12 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr and Ferguson fires are visible from space in an image taken by European Space Agency astronaut Alexander Gerst on Friday, August 3. Hide Caption 13 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Ventura County firefighters watch as a helicopter makes a drop on a hot spot in Scotts Valley on August 3. Hide Caption 14 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California An airplane drops fire retardant in Lakeport on Thursday, August 2. Hide Caption 15 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Flames from a wildfire move up a ridge near Lakeport on August 2. Hide Caption 16 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Flames from a wildfire advance down a hillside near Lakeport on August 2. Hide Caption 17 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter walks around a swimming pool that had been sprayed by fire retardant near Lakeport. Hide Caption 18 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California An air tanker drops fire retardant near Redding on August 2. Hide Caption 19 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A tower of smoke pours from Cow Mountain as a firefighter keeps a watch on surrounding vegetation. Hide Caption 20 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr Fire can be seen from a commercial flight flying over Redding on Wednesday, August 1. Hide Caption 21 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters conduct a controlled burn to defend houses from the Ranch Fire as it moves toward Upper Lake. Hide Caption 22 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Ranch and River fires make up the Mendocino Complex Fire, which has been raging in and near the southeast corner of the Mendocino National Forest, northwest of Sacramento. Hide Caption 23 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A barn burns on Tuesday, July 31, as the River Fire moves through Lakeport. Hide Caption 24 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter runs while trying to save a house in Lakeport. Hide Caption 25 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters try to control a back burn as the Carr Fire spreads toward the towns of Douglas City and Lewiston on July 31. Hide Caption 26 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A woman leaves Lakeport as the River Fire approaches on July 31. Hide Caption 27 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A house burns as the River Fire moves through the Lakeport area on July 31. Hide Caption 28 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters in Upper Lake watch a back burn on July 31. Hide Caption 29 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr Fire leaves cars destroyed near Redding on July 31. Hide Caption 30 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Fire retardant is dropped near a home as the Mendocino Complex Fire burns near Lakeport on Monday, July 30. Hide Caption 31 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter walks through smoke while fighting to save a winery in Lakeport on July 30. Hide Caption 32 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A house near Finley burns from the Mendocino Complex Fire on July 30. Hide Caption 33 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Boats sit at Whiskeytown Lake, near where the Carr Fire originated, on Sunday, July 29. Hide Caption 34 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Deer graze along a road covered in fire retardant as the Carr Fire burns near Redding on Saturday, July 28. Hide Caption 35 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A fire truck drives along Highway 299 as the Carr fire continues to burn near Whiskeytown on July 28. Hide Caption 36 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The setting sun is turned red by smoke from the Carr Fire on Friday, July 27. Hide Caption 37 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Burned-out properties are seen in Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 38 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighting helicopter makes a water drop as the sun sets over a ridge burning near Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 39 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A large pyrocumulus cloud explodes near Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 40 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Flames from the Carr Fire burn through trees near Whiskeytown on July 27. Hide Caption 41 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A burning home is reflected in a pool in Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 42 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter monitors a backfire while battling the Carr Fire on July 27. The fire grew rapidly, ravaging several small communities and jumping the Sacramento River before threatening the outskirts of Redding. Hide Caption 43 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter lights backfires in Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 44 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Cranston Fire burns in San Bernardino National Forest, near Idyllwild, on Thursday, July 26. The Cranston Fire has prompted thousands to flee their homes. Hide Caption 45 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr Fire burns along Highway 299 on July 26. Hide Caption 46 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr Fire tears through Shasta on July 26. Hide Caption 47 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A historic schoolhouse burns in Shasta on July 26. Hide Caption 48 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter walks along Highway 299 as the Carr Fire tears through Shasta on July 26. Hide Caption 49 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Smoke from the Ferguson Fire fills California's Yosemite Valley on Wednesday, July 25. Some of the most iconic areas of Yosemite National Park were forced to close because of the wildfire. Hide Caption 50 of 50The fire began July 23 when a vehicle suffered a mechanical failure, officials said. Firefighters had been making progress containing it until Thursday night, when it began to quickly spread.Its own weather systemWildfires like this can get so hot they make pyrocumulus clouds , formations that look like mushroom clouds and can be seen for miles.Cumulus clouds are usually formed when the sun heats the ground, sending warm air up, where the air cools and condenses to form a cloud. In a wildfire, heat from flames forces the air to rise quickly. Water inside trees and other plants evaporates. The added moisture condenses in the cooler air above.The clouds look and act like thunderstorms. They can produce lightning and powerful winds in different directions, further complicating efforts of firefighters.Sometimes, they even contain enough moisture to become a type of cloud that can produce rain -- possibly even putting out the blaze.No rain forecastHigh temperatures, low humidity and increased winds are all in the forecast, setting the stage for more explosive fire behavior, Chris Harvey with the Cal Fire Incident Management Team said Sunday."A dangerous heat wave will continue from California to the Pacific Northwest early this week. Triple-digit heat combined with dry humidity will only exacerbate the ongoing wildfire situation in California," it said on Twitter.CNN meteorologist Haley Brink said no rain is in the forecast this week."Winds in the area of the fires will be locally gusty, with gusts up to 25 mph. The fires are likely to generate their own winds, which could be stronger at times," she said. "Elsewhere across Central and Southern California the story remains similar. Temperatures will remain 5-10 degrees above average for the region, and dry/drought conditions will continue with little to no rain expected throughout the week."Great-grandmother, great-grandchildren dieThe six deaths caused by the erratic flames include 70-year-old Melody Bledsoe and her great-grandchildren, 4-year-old Emily Roberts and 5-year-old James Roberts.The three had been missing since Thursday when their house was overcome by flames. Family members confirmed Saturday that they died."With a heavy heart we are sad to inform you all that Mel and the great-grandbabies were confirmed to be in the home," the family said on a GoFundMe pageIn those final minutes, unable to get to his wife and their great-grandchildren, Ed Bledsoe was able to get through on the phone.Bledsoe broke into sobs as he described speaking to his family by phone as he was rushing to try to save them."He just kept saying 'Grandpa, come and get me," Bledsoe said, referring to 5-year-old James. "'The fire's coming in the back door. C'mon Grandpa.' I said 'I'm right down the road.'"Another person was found dead after a fire consumed another house, Bosenko said Sunday."This fire is scary to us. This is something we haven't seen before in the city," Redding Police Chief Roger Moore told reporters Friday night.Redding Police Sgt. Todd Cogle said authorities are "finding that there are a lot of communication issues" making it hard to locate residents."We spoke with several people who left their cell phones at their residences and in this day and age people don't remember people's phone numbers," Cogle said.'I didn't want to get trapped'Sarah and Josh Lister's home outside Redding, California was destroyed in the Carr Fire.As the fire neared his home outside the Redding city limits last week, Josh Lister hosed down his house and left his hose on the roof running.His wife, Sarah, had already left with their two young children, a 16-month-old son named Gage and 6-year-old Kaya.But Lister, who owns a painting and restoration business, grew worried because there was only one entrance and exit to his neighborhood.He saw the fire in the distance."I didn't want to get trapped in there," he said.As he rushed out of his home, Lister said he left his wedding ring on the vanity in the bathroom, and thousands of dollars of tools and equipment."It looked like an atomic bomb went off," he said of damage to the home."After the fact, we got a few pictures .... from friends, but it was a firestorm when we left," Lister said.The Listers have been staying in a hotel since the fire."Our house was in a great, awesome neighborhood, great neighbors," Lister said.Only charred remnants remained of the peaceful life in their home in the rustic foothills neighborhood: Charred bicycles. A chimney still standing in the rubble.Firefighter, bulldozer operator killedAt least two people died fighting the fire, and several others have been hurt.Jeremy Stoke, a fire inspector with the Redding Fire Department, died Thursday, the Redding firefighters union said.Fire inspector Jeremy Stoke died while helping with evacuations Thursday, Redding firefighters union said.Stoke, who joined the Redding Fire Department in 2004, was killed while assisting with evacuations, the union said.A private-hire bulldozer operator, who was not identified, also died Thursday while battling the fire.Three Marin County firefighters were treated last week for burns to the ears, hands and face after they encountered a "sudden blast of heat" from burning vegetation. Engineer Scott Pederson and firefighters Tyler Barnes and Brian Cardoza have been released from a hospital, the fire department said Friday in a statement.A fourth firefighter was being evaluated at the UC Davis Burn Center, the statement said.Eight people were treated for respiratory and burn-related injuries at Mercy Medical Center in Redding, a hospital spokeswoman said Friday morning.Other fires burning in CaliforniaIn addition to the Carr Fire, more than a dozen other large wildfires are burning throughout California, stretching resources.State leaders convene Sunday to continue prioritizing emergency resources across 17 large fires across California. Red Flag conditions in #ShastaCounty. 12,000 firefighters working across the state. pic.twitter.com/RsXrJJBFC9 — Cal OES (@Cal_OES) July 29, 2018The Cranston Fire near San Bernardino has burned more than 13,130 acres and is 57% contained.A man accused of setting several fires in Riverside County, including the Cranston Fire, was arrested last Wednesday, authorities said.The Ranch and River fires in Mendocino County have collectively scorched more than 30,000 acres, Cal Fire said.Much of the Central Valley is now blanketed in wildfire smoke. This is the view from our office, which is over 100 miles away from wildfires. #CarrFire #MendocinoComplex #cawx pic.twitter.com/tl5iWjxR5y — NWS Sacramento (@NWSSacramento) July 29, 2018The Ferguson Fire in Mariposa County has burned more than 56,000 acres and is 30% contained. The fire has prompted the closure of the most iconic areas of Yosemite National Park, which will reopen to all visitors August 3, officials said.Fire officials said Monday they hope to lift evacuation orders to let residents back into their homes."We have not lost current homes which people are living in which is a testament to the aggressive attack. The fire continues to burn through a large wilderness area," said Doug Binnewies, the Mariposa County sheriff and coroner.'Gone way too soon'A Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Park firefighter, identified as Capt. Brian Hughes, 33, died fighting the Ferguson Fire after he was struck and killed by a tree Sunday, according to a statement from the Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Parks.Capt. Brian Hughes"Hughes was with the Arrowhead [Interagency] Hotshots for four years and will be dearly missed by everyone at the parks," the statement read. "We grieve his loss.""Hotshot teams are a tight-knit close group that really care for each other and Brian facilitated that caring and connection. He kept that team in strong unity," said Woody Smeck, superintendent of Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Parks. "He was their pillar of strength. He had a bright future ahead of him, gone way too soon."