Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here.(CNN) New Hampshire votes; Hong Kong battles and North Korea screws up. It's Tuesday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.CAMPAIGN 2016Live free or die trying: Little ole' Dixville Notch kicked off the first vote in the first-in-the-nation primary this morning. Bernie Sanders beat Hillary Clinton; and John Kasich trumped Donald Trump. Oh if only this New Hampshire hamlet was any good at predicting winners ( : Little ole' Dixville Notch kicked off the first vote in the first-in-the-nation primary this morning. Bernie Sanders beat Hillary Clinton; and John Kasich trumped Donald Trump. Oh if only this New Hampshire hamlet was any good at predicting winners ( it's not! ). Meanwhile, billionaire media mogul and ex-NYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg said once again he's thinking of running. Says he finds the level of discourse "distressingly banal" and an "outrage" and "an insult to the voters." Tell us how you really feel!JUST WATCHED Candidates flood N.H. in last chance to sway voters Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Candidates flood N.H. in last chance to sway voters 03:17HONG KONG RIOTSNew Year's retribution: Fireworks in the air, clashes on the streets. That's how Hong Kong rang in the Chinese New Year in the city's Mong Kok district yesterday. When cops tried to kick out unlicensed street vendors, the PO'd vendors resorted to usual protester fare: bricks, bottles and burning rubbish. Police responded with pepper spray and warning shots. : Fireworks in the air, clashes on the streets. That's how Hong Kong rang in the Chinese New Year in the city's Mong Kok district yesterday. When cops tried to kick out unlicensed street vendors, the PO'd vendors resorted to usual protester fare: bricks, bottles and burning rubbish. Police responded with pepper spray and warning shots. Fires were still burning in the area this morning and about 100 folks were there -- ripping up bricks from the sidewalk to presumably throw at police later.JUST WATCHED Lunar New Year: Hong Kong protests turn violent Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lunar New Year: Hong Kong protests turn violent 02:29