(CNN) Support for a national law enforcement boycott of Beyonce's world tour appears to be picking up steam, even as critics dismiss the action as unnecessary.The Miami Fraternal Order of Police urged the boycott Thursday ahead of the tour's April launch at Marlins Park. But backlash against Beyonce started almost immediately after the superstar singer's release of her controversial "Formation" music video and Super Bowl 50 halftime show performance earlier this month.Critics have objected to the #BlackLivesMatter themes in both, and specifically to her backup dancers at the halftime performance being outfitted in Black Panther -like costumes.In one portion of the music video, a young African-American boy wearing a hoodie dances before a line of police officers wearing riot gear before the words "Stop Shooting Us" appear in graffiti on a wall."To taint police officers globally in the Super Bowl is really wrong," said Sgt. Ed Mullins, president of the Sergeants Benevolent Association in New York City.Mullins said the boycott, which he supports, would involve officers refusing to work paid off-duty security for the event, not refusing to perform regular law enforcement duties."I can guarantee that if Beyonce needs help anywhere, police would respond," Mullins said, adding that he is concerned that even though "she is in a major position to do things that are positive" she is pitting herself against law enforcement."She made a statement and now law enforcement is making a statement. What's clear is that no one in the country is trying to resolve the issues between communities of color and the distrust of law enforcement," he said.JUST WATCHED Giuliani criticizes Beyoncé's Super Bowl performance Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Giuliani criticizes Beyoncé's Super Bowl performance 02:43Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani was also a vocal critic of the halftime show, telling CNN's Don Lemon that he found it emotionally offensive. Giuliani also said the singer should use her celebrity to encourage people "to respect the uniform, not to make it appear as if they are the enemy."Representatives for the Stop Mass Incarceration Network disagreed, arguing that celebrities like Beyonce have a right to speak out against police brutality without being attacked.A statement released by the group, founded in part by Dr. Cornel West in 2011, said, "At a time when people have been rising up against the genocidal tide of police terror and mass incarceration in ways we haven't seen since the 60's, backward fascist reactionaries like Rudolph Giuliani and various national police organizations have unleashed a torrent of abuse attacking Beyonce and accusing her of 'cop killer entertainment.'"But Mullins said that when celebrities like Beyonce and public officials make statements against law enforcement, it makes officers' jobs more dangerous. He says they have seen more assaults on law enforcement due to anti-police sentiment.The National Sheriffs' Association blamed Beyonce's "anti-police 'entertainment'" performance for four officer deaths last week. And after shots were fired outside his home this week, a sheriff in Tennessee held a news conference saying Beyonce's video may have provoked the shootings.Later, in a Facebook post , Rutherford County, Tennessee, Sheriff Robert Arnold said his comments "reflect the violence and senseless killing of seven deputies in the U.S. since the show aired. My comments are an observation of the violence that has occurred but in no way is meant to offend anyone."The executive director of the National Association of Police Organizations pledged the group's support Friday for the boycott."Why would any group of working men and women support a rich celebrity who openly glorifies murderers? Why would anybody?" asked the group's executive director, Bill Johnson.The Massachusetts Police Association said it is just beginning to discuss the issue of the boycott, while other police unions are starting to hold meetings to decide how they will handle the situation.Frederick Frazier with the Dallas Police Association in Texas said the group is discussing the possibility of joining the boycott.Photos: The power of the Panthers Photos: The power of the Panthers Black Panther National Chairman Bobby Seale, left, wears a Colt .45, and Huey Newton, right, carries a shotgun in Oakland, California, in the 1960s. The group's look and defiant rhetoric made black militancy fashionable in the late '60s. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: The power of the Panthers Black Panther leader Kathleen Cleaver in 1968. Though men got most of the attention in the Black Panther Party, the group recruited many strong women leaders. Cleaver is now a law professor at Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: The power of the Panthers Panthers line up at a rally in DeFremery Park, in Oakland, California. The Panthers' focus on police brutality in the black community and racial bias in the criminal justice system anticipated the Black Lives Matter movement 50 years later. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: The power of the Panthers American revolutionary and educator Angela Davis is pictured in November 1969, shortly after she was fired as philosophy professor at UCLA due to her membership in the Communist Party of America. Davis followed up her brilliant early academic career by joining the Black Panthers and being added to the FBI Most Wanted list. She was acquitted of all charges and continues to be a writer, educator, and activist for race, class, and gender equality. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: The power of the Panthers Eldridge Cleaver, one of the original members of the radical Black Panther Party, poses in Paris in May 1975. Appointed the Panthers' minister of information, Cleaver wrote "Soul on Ice," regarded as a handbook of the movement that preached violence and revolution as the only means to achieve black liberation in America. He fled the U.S. in the late '60s and after three years in exile turned his back on the Black Panthers.Cleaver returned to the U.S. in 1975 to face justice. Denouncing his former movement, he was given a conditional release and sentenced to 2,000 hours of community service. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: The power of the Panthers Black Panthers demonstrate in Oakland, California. The group created free breakfast programs for poor kids and free health clinics for the needy. It also produced a Black Panther newspaper that reaches thousands of readers at the group's peak.Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: The power of the Panthers American political and social activist and Black Panther Party member Fred Hampton speaks at the Days of Rage rally in Chicago in October 1969. Hampton was shot to death in his bed by police in a predawn raid only two months later. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: The power of the Panthers The Black Panther Party weren't just revolutionaries, they were fashion trendsetters. Their Afros and emphasis on "black is beautiful" changed how blacks dressed and carried themselves in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: The power of the Panthers Children walk by Panther Power graffiti. The group saw themselves as the vanguard of a worldwide revolution, a revolution that had sparked uprisings in places like Vietnam and Cuba in the 1960s. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: The power of the Panthers Black Panthers demonstrate at the Alameda County Court House in Oakland in July 1968. There are still several Panthers serving time in prison 50 years after the group's formation. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: The power of the Panthers The Panthers said they carried guns as a form of self-defense against police brutality. The Panthers, not the NRA, were forerunners of the open carry gun movement and were fierce defenders of the Second Amendment's right to bear arms. Hide Caption 11 of 11"We are very happy that our brothers and sisters in blue are boycotting anyone who tarnishes the image of law enforcement," Frazier told CNN. "And when she (Beyonce) comes to Dallas, she needs to know that the anti-police message is not welcomed. We respect anyone's First Amendment rights, but we also respect our officers and any law-abiding citizens (and) we will not respect those who tarnish our profession."Joe Gamaldi, the vice president of the Houston Police Officers' Union in Texas, said the group wants more information before deciding whether to join the boycott."It is not needed until she explains her video and whether there is an anti- police address/message she is trying to bring to the public," Gamaldi said.In a statement, Javier Ortiz, president of the Miami Fraternal Order of Police, accused the singer of using her recent Super Bowl performance "to divide Americans by promoting the Black Panthers and her anti-police message."Ortiz wrote Thursday that he "was one of the tens of thousands of law enforcement officers that didn't watch the Super Bowl halftime show of respect for our profession," but that "on another day while flipping through the television channels, I did mistakenly watch her 'Formation' video."A representative for Beyonce was not immediately available to comment. But a spokesman for the Miami Police Department told The Huffington Post that the union spoke only for itself and that "there's no indication that anything that is said there will translate into police officers not working the job.""The smartest thing for everybody to do is to find a table and sit down and to create an atmosphere and programs that benefit children and police officers, to rebuild trust and change a culture that is now in existence," Mullins said, offering to work with Beyonce to build such programs.