Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A telling town hall, a shocking study, and a brewing battle. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door :1. GOP TOWN HALLTrump, Bush and Kasich appeared in a CNN town hall last night and we learned so, so much-- When one-third of your campaign funds are donations , you're not really a "self-funder."-- Bush doesn't get W's art: He called it "weird."Trump won't back down: Not only did he continue his attack on George W. for going into Iraq, --: Not only did he continue his attack on George W. for going into Iraq, he offered a new theory : "I think the son (was) being loyal to the father."-- Kasich's aw-shucks finish: "I'm not that great a guy, OK? I'm just doing the best I can."JUST WATCHED Part 2 of CNN's GOP town hall in 90 seconds Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Part 2 of CNN's GOP town hall in 90 seconds 01:292. SAN BERNARDINO SHOOTINGJUST WATCHED Legal analysis: Apple v. FBI Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Legal analysis: Apple v. FBI 04:173. ISISChildren of the damned: Militant groups using child soldiers are nothing new. But the way ISIS does it, is. A new study, out today, says the terrorists treat kids no differently than adults, sending them on attacks right alongside grownups. You see, Militant groups using child soldiers are nothing new. But the way ISIS does it, is. A new study, out today, says the terrorists treat kids no differently than adults, sending them on attacks right alongside grownups. You see, the sanctity of childhood means zip to these monsters . Shocking still, some of these kids are part of ISIS' military operations with their parents' consent. So, how many child soldiers are in ISIS ranks? The study estimates at least 1,500.JUST WATCHED The children who escaped the clutches of ISIS Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The children who escaped the clutches of ISIS 03:474. CALIFORNIA GAS LEAKWin the battle not the war: Finally -- finally -- some good news for Porter Ranch. Finally -- finally -- some good news for Porter Ranch. The worst natural gas leak in U.S. history is now permanently capped . That only took Southern California Gas FOUR MONTHS! At its height, the leak spewed 97,000 pounds of methane per hour and displaced thousands from their homes. Up next: What effect this calamity will have on property values and, more importantly, the long-term health of residents. So, let's not throw around high fives just yet.JUST WATCHED Secretary of Energy visits SoCal Gas facility Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Secretary of Energy visits SoCal Gas facility 01:315. UGANDA ELECTIONSFait accompli: A lot has changed in Uganda in the last 30 years except one thing: President Yoweri Musevini. The 71-year-old is hoping for a fifth term and rights groups say he's doing his darndest to make sure he gets it. The country voted yesterday in an election that saw the detention of the leading opposition candidate, a ban on social media (which had been used as a rallying cry) and ballot stuffing (for Musevini, of course). A lot has changed in Uganda in the last 30 years except one thing: President Yoweri Musevini. The 71-year-old is hoping for a fifth term and rights groups say he's doing his darndest to make sure he gets it. The country voted yesterday in an election that saw the detention of the leading opposition candidate, a ban on social media (which had been used as a rallying cry) and ballot stuffing (for Musevini, of course). We'll find out the results today . One guess who'll win?There's more ...Breakfast browsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day: "Gloria Steinem ... made me [an] honorary woman many, many years ago"Bernie Sanders, -- trying a new tack to convince female voters he walks the walk on issues important to women.Sleepless in Seattle?Try wide awake in Waikiki. A new study finds that people in Hawaii get the least zzzsYou've got mailFrance is considering a law that makes it OK to ignore that note from your boss when you're out of office. Quoi?(g)O CanadaA Canadian island that asked Americans to move there if Trump wins got 50,000 inquiries in 3 days -- more than all of last year.Net effectGilmour Academy won its basketball playoff with 108 POINTS ! But a slow clap for the other team -- for scoring once.New kid on the blockCheck out this squee-worthy addition at a Boston zoo. Too. Much. Cuteness.What's for lunchHere's what's happening laterBorn in the U.S.A.:And finally...Under my umbrella (ella ella eh eh)Guy borrows a Starbucks umbrella and goes around the University of Utah, walking students to class, in this random act of awesomeness.