Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Thinning patience in Oregon, thinning herd in the presidential race and thin ice with Kim Jong Un. It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door:OREGON REFUGE OCCUPATIONRemember those folks who took over the wildlife refuge in Oregon? Yep, some of them are still there, even if we've all moved on with our lives. Well, it looks like the FBI is finally running out of patience with their rebels-without-a-cause shenanigans . Last night, agents surrounded the stone cabins where about four holdouts are still holed up. The feds aren't saying if they'll move in; just that they continue to negotiate. In case you've lost count (and we don't blame you), we're on day 41 of this siege.Jon Eric Ritzheimer, 32, turned himself in to police in Peoria, Arizona, the FBI said. Ritzheimer has organized armed anti-Muslim rallies and had been in Oregon supporting the occupiers there.Jon Eric Ritzheimer, 32, turned himself in to police in Peoria, Arizona, the FBI said. Ritzheimer has organized armed anti-Muslim rallies and had been in Oregon supporting the occupiers there.Peter Santilli was one of two people linked to the occupation who were arrested Tuesday in Burns, Oregon -- separate from the traffic stop, police said. All seven people arrested in Oregon on Tuesday face a federal felony charge of conspiracy to impede officers of the United States from discharging their official duties through the use of force, intimidation or threats, police said.Peter Santilli was one of two people linked to the occupation who were arrested Tuesday in Burns, Oregon -- separate from the traffic stop, police said. All seven people arrested in Oregon on Tuesday face a federal felony charge of conspiracy to impede officers of the United States from discharging their official duties through the use of force, intimidation or threats, police said.Joseph O'Shaughnessy was one of two people linked to the occupation who were arrested Tuesday in Burns, Oregon -- separate from the traffic stop, police said.Joseph O'Shaughnessy was one of two people linked to the occupation who were arrested Tuesday in Burns, Oregon -- separate from the traffic stop, police said.Ryan Waylen Payne was one of the five people arrested in Tuesday's traffic stop on U.S. 395 in Oregon, police said.Ryan Waylen Payne was one of the five people arrested in Tuesday's traffic stop on U.S. 395 in Oregon, police said.Shawna Cox was also among those arrested in Tuesday's traffic stop on U.S. 395 in Oregon, police said.Shawna Cox was also among those arrested in Tuesday's traffic stop on U.S. 395 in Oregon, police said.Brian Cavalier was one of the five people arrested in Tuesday's traffic stop on U.S. 395 in Oregon, police said.Brian Cavalier was one of the five people arrested in Tuesday's traffic stop on U.S. 395 in Oregon, police said.Also arrested in the traffic stop was Bundy's brother, Ryan Bundy (pictured). Police said shots were fired during the stop -- it was unclear who fired first -- and that Ryan Bundy was injured. One of the occupiers, LaVoy Finicum (not shown), died, police said.Also arrested in the traffic stop was Bundy's brother, Ryan Bundy (pictured). Police said shots were fired during the stop -- it was unclear who fired first -- and that Ryan Bundy was injured. One of the occupiers, LaVoy Finicum (not shown), died, police said.Seven people linked to an armed occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Oregon were arrested in that state on Tuesday, police said. Five, including the occupiers' leader, Ammon Bundy (pictured), were arrested in a traffic stop on U.S. 395, police said.Seven people linked to an armed occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Oregon were arrested in that state on Tuesday, police said. Five, including the occupiers' leader, Ammon Bundy (pictured), were arrested in a traffic stop on U.S. 395, police said.FERGUSONFor seven months, the Justice Dept. worked with Ferguson to reform its police department. You know, the one that was found to routinely profile blacks in traffic stops and use unjustified force ( See: Mike Brown ). On Tuesday, the city decided, 'Meh we don't like the terms of the deal,' and suggested not one, not two, but seven changes. After the feds picked their jaws off the floor, they sued. Residents waited decades for justice, the attorney general said; they shouldn't be forced to wait any longer. Check and mate.CAMPAIGN 2016JUST WATCHED Chris Christie suspends presidential campaign Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chris Christie suspends presidential campaign 01:54NORTH KOREAWho's the boss?: This morning, we learned North Korea This morning, we learned North Korea executed a military chief , a general by the name of Ri Yong-gil. The official reason was "factionalism, misuse of authority and corruption." But whenever Pyongyang does somebody in, it pretty much always triggers speculation they crossed Kim Jong Un and he decided to go all Napolean complex on them. He's still young and figuring out his friends from his frenemies, says one expert. And "the people who are on the wrong side become disposable."JUST WATCHED Ranking North Korean official executed by regime? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ranking North Korean official executed by regime? 02:46CANADA MYSTERYThirteen feet: And by 13 feet, we're talking the human kind. You know, with toes and a heel. That's how many have washed up on shore in British Columbia since 2007. It happened again this week: a foot, stuffed inside a sock and shoe. The good news? The coroner doesn't think anybody cut it off. It probably just rotted off. It may have come from somebody who committed suicide. That's what happened in most of the other cases. Still kinda creepy, no?JUST WATCHED Hikers find human foot on beach Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hikers find human foot on beach 01:13Breakfast browsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Playing aroundOmg an 8th #HarryPotter installment is being published & muggles everywhere can't even😭⚡️✨🙀https://t.co/VKAgErKWyn pic.twitter.com/pSfR1LccJ4 — Savannah Grimm (@savvygrimm) February 10, 2016Won't take it sitting downGrumbling about being stuck in economy behind some inconsiderate lummox reclining his seat? A U.S. lawmaker is proposing leg room law.Photos: 7 terrifying airplane seat patents Is this the future of flying? – With airlines under pressure to slash fares and cram in ever more people without extending cabin space, passengers might soon be stacked on top of each other -- literally. This is our hellish version. Click on to see what real aviation engineers are coming up with. Hide Caption 1 of 9 Photos: 7 terrifying airplane seat patents New Airbus patent – Airbus has offered a chilling glimpse into what the future of air travel might hold with a patent that envisages two rows of seats layered on top of each other . The patent states that the design "still provides a high level of comfort for the passengers" with seats that could be reclined 180 degrees. Hide Caption 2 of 9 Photos: 7 terrifying airplane seat patents Airbus saddle seat – At least with the stacked-rows design passengers will actually be sitting down. Not so much with the so-called saddle seat , another Airbus patent, which would require them to assume a semi-squat position during a flight. Hide Caption 3 of 9 Photos: 7 terrifying airplane seat patents Saddle up – The seat (our imagined version shown here), which wouldn't look out of place on a bicycle, has no headrest, with back support also in limited supply. The patent admits that the increase in the number of seats is achieved to the detriment of the comfort of the passengers Hide Caption 4 of 9 Photos: 7 terrifying airplane seat patents Abandoned Ryanair proposal – Fully-standing spaces were proposed by Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary a few years ago, although they haven't been rolled out. "We have no plans to trial or introduce standing flights," an airline spokesperson told CNN. If our rendition is even close to accurate, that's a good thing. Hide Caption 5 of 9 Photos: 7 terrifying airplane seat patents Economy Class Cabin Hexagon – Those for whom flying means getting lost in a book or a film while politely ignoring their neighbors probably won't enjoy the designs from Zodiac Seats France. Hide Caption 6 of 9 Photos: 7 terrifying airplane seat patents Just keep looking down – Zodiac Seat France's Economy Class Cabin Hexagon consists of a tightly packed jigsaw of alternating backward and forward seats, making it difficult to maintain the number one rule of traveling on any form of public transport -- avoiding eye contact. Or so we imagine here. Hide Caption 7 of 9 Photos: 7 terrifying airplane seat patents Upright sleep support system – Not to be outdone, Boeing has filed its share of eccentric patents, such as the "upright sleep support system." Its purpose is to help passengers rest during a flight by letting them lean face-forward into a cushion that has a hole to accommodate eyes, nose and mouth. Hide Caption 8 of 9 Photos: 7 terrifying airplane seat patents Boeing sleep support – Its purpose is to help passengers rest during a flight by letting them lean face-forward into a cushion. Another cushion supports the chest. Both are deployed from a backpack attached to the seat. Hide Caption 9 of 9Why the long face?Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is pictured with a horseThis is your brain on drugsSmoking pot may help you forget your worries for a while, but it'll definitely make you forget your words.JUST WATCHED Your brain on weed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Your brain on weed 01:39On a rollWhat's for lunch?Here's what's happening later.Announcement of utmost gravity: Scientists will probably Scientists will probably declare today they have detected gravitational waves. That'll confirm part of Einstein's theory of relativity and add to our understanding of the universe. Win-win!JUST WATCHED Gravitational waves: The Holy Grail of modern physics Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Gravitational waves: The Holy Grail of modern physics 01:56$500Tamir Rice shooting: grand jury saw enhanced videoAnd finally...Teach a dog to fish and ...Watch this dog use bread for bait to catch a fish.