Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) An unthinkable crime. An unending campaign. An unbelievable finish. It's Monday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .KALAMAZOO SHOOTINGWords like "shock" and "unimaginable" don't quite do the job in describing the reaction to what happened Saturday evening in this Michigan city. Here's another difficult word: why. Why would a man shoot and kill six people, seemingly at random, all while picking up and dropping off passengers for Uber? Maybe we'll get to the why today, when suspect Jason Brian Dalton is arraigned. Here's the latest on what we know and don't knowCAMPAIGN 2016Had something better to do this weekend than watch the latest episode of that crazy reality show known as the presidential primaries? Well let us catch you up:Luck be a lady tonight: Hillary Hillary beats the house (and Bernie) in the Nevada caucuses, once again earning her top billing on the Democratic side.Bushwhacked: Longtime cast member Jeb! Longtime cast member Jeb! leaves the show, after yet another disappointing finish. The audience just never warmed up to him.Can Bernie rebound in South Carolina? How long before the good Dr. Ben leaves the show? Will Melania get another speaking role? Stay tuned.JUST WATCHED How SC and NV results change campaign narrative Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How SC and NV results change campaign narrative 07:07SAN BERNARDINO SHOOTINGHave fingers. Will point: The feds really want to get into San Bernardino shooter Syed Farook's iPhone. But they may be out of luck -- and not because Apple is The feds really want to get into San Bernardino shooter Syed Farook's iPhone. But they may be out of luck -- and not because Apple is fighting a court order to unlock the phone. The FBI says a county employee may have accidentally reset the phone's iCloud password . The county says, the FBI told us too. Either way, goodbye iCloud backup, which could have revealed more info about Farook.JUST WATCHED Legal analysis: Apple v. FBI Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Legal analysis: Apple v. FBI 04:17SYRIA CIVIL WARISIS. Always ISIS: World leaders announce an imminent partial truce in war-ravaged Syria. So what does ISIS do hours later? It hits World leaders announce an imminent partial truce in war-ravaged Syria. So what does ISIS do hours later? It hits Syrian regime strongholds i n Homs and Damascus with car bombs and suicide attacks, killing well over 100 people yesterday. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry still believes a ceasefire is possible. But we're a week-and-change into the promised timeline and ... crickets.JUST WATCHED Syria: Dozens killed as bombers strike Homs, Damascus Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Syria: Dozens killed as bombers strike Homs, Damascus 02:49INDIA WATER CRISISCut off: Ever try to fix one problem and only end up creating another? That's pretty much what's happening in India. after deadly protests and a water crisis broke out over quotas involving its complex caste system. The quota system's meant to correct inequalities created by the caste structure. But in Harayana state, the relatively prosperous Jat group is crying 'Reverse discrimination,' Members blocked roads and attacked railways. Oh, and they've also Ever try to fix one problem and only end up creating another? That's pretty much what's happening in India. after deadly protests and a water crisis broke out over quotas involving its complex caste system. The quota system's meant to correct inequalities created by the caste structure. But in Harayana state, the relatively prosperous Jat group is crying 'Reverse discrimination,' Members blocked roads and attacked railways. Oh, and they've also cut off water to New Delhi. Now do they have your attention?JUST WATCHED Deadly protests deplete water supply in New Delhi Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Deadly protests deplete water supply in New Delhi 02:21In other newsBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:"80 percent of my income goes to paying my rent. Isn't that ironic? Your employee for your food delivery app ... can't afford to buy food."Yelp employee Talia Jane, who wrote an open letter to Yelp's CEO complaining her pay's too low and the rent's too damn high. She was promptly fired.Baby, you can't drive my carWelcome to Lamu, the Kenyan island where cars are bannedMoney shot50 Cent may be broke, but he still has some cash left to flash. His bankruptcy judge may have more than 21 questions about that.Lunar jamzNASA finally releases the " outer-space type music " from an Apollo mission on the far side of the moon.Won by that muchRaces don't end any closer than Denny Hamlin's 0.011-second victory in the Daytona 500 yesterday.Getting downWhat do you do when you're 106 years old and meet the President you've waited a lifetime for? You bust a move , of courseWHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening today.No laughing matterHer husband's lawyers' are fighting it, but Camille Cosby will be deposed this morning by attorneys for the eight women who've sued comedian Bill Cosby for defamation.Klan clash