An earlier version of this story incorrectly described the compensation that Royal Caribbean has offered passengers of Anthem of the Seas. They will receive a full refund plus a voucher for 50% of the cruise fare they paid for use on a future cruise, the cruise line said.(CNN) Maureen Peters thought she would never see her family again. For hours on Sunday night, the Royal Caribbean cruise passenger clung to her mattress to avoid falling off her bed as huge waves tossed around the massive ship, the Anthem of the Seas.The cruise ship got caught in a violent storm -- a storm that was predicted."That boat should have never gone out," said Peters, who lives in Southampton, Massachusetts. She was angry and tired but glad to be back on land Wednesday after the ship made an emergency rerouting back to the United States, forgoing its intended destination in the Bahamas.So is Peters right? Should the Anthem of the Seas have set sail with some 1,500 crew and 6,000 passengers, four of whom returned home with minor injuries rather than the tans they were probably dreaming about?Who's responsible?It's always the discretion of the captain, and the captain only, as to whether the ship leaves port, said Bill Baumgartner, the senior vice president of Global Marine Operations, Royal Caribbean Cruises Limited."He's responsible for the ultimate safety," he said.The company hasn't released the name of the captain.Normally, a captain will weigh the opinions of a "fleet of captains ashore" who review the situation and make recommendations on the safest route to take, Baumgartner added.What did the captain know about the forecast before leaving port?Royal Caribbean captains receive and review multiple forecasts, some sophisticated enough to project where the ship will be as the storm develops, Baumgartner explained. In this case, the captain of the Anthem of the Seas, who has worked for Royal Caribbean for more than 15 years, initially spotted a storm with winds forecast to be 55 to 65 knots, or about 63 mph to 74 mph.As early as last Thursday, the National Weather Service's ocean prediction center in Washington forecast winds of 46 to 57 mph and 23- to 31-foot seas on Sunday night where she ship sailed.But it was far worse than the forecast predicted. "We simply didn't anticipate that it could be 125 mile per hour winds," Baumgartner said.Those conditions meant a hellish time on the ship.For roughly 12 hours, passengers hunkered down in their rooms Sunday as waves rocked the ship off Cape Hatteras, North Carolina. They endured four hours with the 1,100-foot long ship at about a 45-degree angle, another passenger said.JUST WATCHED Cruise ship passenger: Tables, chairs were flying Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cruise ship passenger: Tables, chairs were flying 03:45Does it tell us something that only four people had minor injuries?Initially, the captain plotted a course to avoid the worst of the system, Baumgartner said, and employed the ship's standard storm avoidance system.The fact that only four people had minor injuries out of 6,000 passengers and 1,500 crew members is a testament to how deftly the captain handled an unexpected weather system.He has a point, said Brad Lima, a 42-year seafarer and a vice president at the Massachusetts Maritime Academy."You can't underscore how few people were hurt," he said. "Whatever he did, he performed well."The general public must understand that weather on the sea can shift in a matter of minutes. "I can recall a time at sea when within one hour we were steady and then tossed around like a cork," Lima said. "I'm not sure he could have avoided this."JUST WATCHED Rough seas ruin Royal Caribbean cruise Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rough seas ruin Royal Caribbean cruise 01:01How are passengers being compensated?Royal Caribbean issued an apology to passengers for "what they went through" and will refund their fares. Those who were aboard will also get a voucher for 50% of the cruise fare they paid for use on a future cruise, the company said in a tweet.Is anyone investigating what happened?Sen. Bill Nelson of Florida is calling for the National Transportation Safety Board to examine why the ship set sail."The thing about this storm was that it was forecast for days. So why in the world would a cruise ship with thousands of passengers go sailing right into it?" Nelson asked from the Senate floor Monday. "I want the (NTSB) to come up with answers very quickly and make an admonition to mariners: When the storm is brewing, you don't go out of port."Declining to not set sail every time a storm is predicted isn't an answer, Lima stressed."Ships aren't built to stay in port," he said. "I'm sure the safest position would be not to take the ship to sea, but that's unrealistic when there are pressures of meeting time lines. And, again, weather changes very quickly sometimes."Lima said the NTSB would make sure all maritime laws were followed. It's the U.S. Coast Guard's job to inspect the ship before the ship leaves port and when it returns, looking for any structural damage.Internally at Royal Caribbean, the company is reviewing its policies with focus on how to provide more support and oversight when storms are a concern, Baumgartner said. "We've got to figure out a better way to make sure that we don't get surprised by weather, no matter what," he said.Does it matter that Anthem is flagged in the Bahamas?The Anthem is a Bahamian-flagged ship in international waters, according to the NTSB. "We are actively engaged with our U.S. and international partners to determine what would be the best course of action, in accordance with established international protocols," the agency said in a statement.That isn't unusual. Many vessels are flagged in various countries outside the United States but that doesn't mean a substandard requirement for safety or maintenance of a ship, said Lima. There are international standards that must be maintained for all vessels globally.James Staples, a captain and maritime consultant, said it's critical that the decision on whether to leave port remain with the captain. No one should be judging a captain for the decisions he or she makes, both Staples and Lima said.Are comparisons with El Faro fair?There have been some comparisons between Anthem and the El Faro , a cargo ship that sank October 1 near the Bahamas after encountering Hurricane Joaquin. All 33 aboard El Faro died.Photos: The search for El Faro Photos: The search for El Faro From left, Petty Officer 1st Class Jim Fielder, the plane's engineer, Lt. Heather Majeska, a copilot, and Petty Officer 3rd Class Anders Forsberg, who operated the plane's communications, search for debris. Despite the wealth of technology involved in the search for El Faro survivors, eyes are still one of the most important tools in the search, and everyone is expected to keep a look out. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: The search for El Faro The plane makes a sharp bank to "orbit," or fly back over, a piece of debris that the crew wants to check. On the second pass, the cockpit crew gives it another look, as will the crewmember operating the onboard camera. Here, Petty Officers 3rd Class Chris LaBelle, left, and Mark Strock sit on the edge of the cargo door in hopes of getting a better perspective on the debris. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: The search for El Faro LaBelle, the navigator, points out the plane's planned grid en route to the search area. The land mass to the left is San Salvador Island, Bahamas, and the grid requires that pilots fly in a 44-mile lane in one direction, make a U-turn almost two miles wide, and then fly back 44 miles parallel to the previous lane. The total flight was about 700 miles, roughly the distance from Minneapolis to Denver. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: The search for El Faro The HC-130 passes back over San Salvador Island, Bahamas, on its way back to the base in Clearwater, Florida. The starting point for the more than 1,000-square-mile search Monday was just northeast of San Salvador Island, in the Atlantic Ocean. The Coast Guard announced while this plane was airborne that the search for the actual container ship was over and the focus was now solely on survivors. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: The search for El Faro This image demonstrates the difficulty of spotting survivors or recoverable items, even from the frighteningly low altitude of 500 feet. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: The search for El Faro The plane passes over Eleuthera, another Bahamian island, located about 50 miles east of Nassau. The crew had been mildly concerned about weather before takeoff, but they called the conditions for Monday's search prime, explaining that with few clouds and no whitecaps on the smooth ocean surface, it was much easier to spot and identify debris. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: The search for El Faro The plane neared the search grid just after the sun rose. The crew timed its departure from Clearwater, just before 5 a.m. ET, to maximize the sunlight. But even with optimum conditions and a wealth of debris on the water, it was difficult to see each piece -- and more importantly, determine if anyone might be clinging to it -- so the plane often made multiple passes over anything the crew deemed possibly recoverable. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: The search for El Faro Majeska, one of the copilots, snacks on a cinnamon bun while flying the plane and keeping a close watch on the water below. The task of straining your eyes to see debris floating on the water up to a mile in the distance, doubling back and taking a closer look, for a period of about 10 hours is a grueling one, so everyone on board brought plenty of food -- pizza, breakfast burritos, salads, yogurt, bologna sandwiches, sushi -- to keep their energy up for the long mission. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: The search for El Faro When the HC-130 first took off, the cockpit was dark, the instruments on the control panel offering the only light. Here, the first rays of sun gleam into the cockpit as Lt. Janelle Setta, a copilot, left, and Fielder, the engineer, guide the plane to the search area. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: The search for El Faro The Lockheed HC-130 that took the CNN crew up is a modified version of the C-130 Hercules transport plane. This model is suited specifically for search-and-rescue missions, whether they be in combat or otherwise. Though Monday's search kept the plane in the air for 10 hours, it landed with more than 15,000 pounds of fuel. A Coast Guard pilot told CNN that in the event of an emergency or change of plans, the plane could have remained in the air several more hours. Hide Caption 10 of 10