Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Robert Durst, a wealthy New York real-estate heir, is escorted into Orleans Parish Prison after his arraignment in New Orleans on Tuesday, March 17. Durst faces felony firearm and drug charges in New Orleans, and he has been charged with first-degree murder in Los Angeles. Investigators say they believe Durst, 71, was behind the slaying of Susan Berman, Durst's longtime friend. Durst is also the focus of the HBO documentary series "The Jinx," which explores his wife's 1982 disappearance and investigators' suspicions that Berman was killed because she knew what happened to her. Durst has long maintained he didn't kill Berman or have anything to do with his wife's disappearance. Hide Caption 1 of 10Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Durst is accused of killing Berman inside this Beverly Hills home in 2000. Hide Caption 2 of 10Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Berman and Durst in the 1990s. For years, speculation has swirled about who could be responsible for Berman's death. Hide Caption 3 of 10Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Durst appears in a Galveston, Texas, courtroom for an unrelated case in 2003. Durst admitted then that he had killed and dismembered Morris Black, a neighbor in Galveston, but he argued he'd shot Black in self-defense during a struggle. A jury found Durst not guilty, but he remained in jail for a time because of a bail jumping charge. Hide Caption 4 of 10Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst The front page of the New York Daily News on November 12, 2003. During the trial, Durst testified that he hid out in Galveston and posed as a mute woman because he was afraid as he faced increasing scrutiny, Court TV reported. Hide Caption 5 of 10Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Private detectives comb a portion of Galveston Bay in search of Morris Black's remains in February 2002. Hide Caption 6 of 10Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Durst's police booking photo in November 2001, after he jumped bail and was arrested in Pennsylvania. Durst was captured for shoplifting a sandwich even though he had hundreds of dollars in his pocket. Hide Caption 7 of 10Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst Durst, seen here in February 1991, is an heir to a fortune thanks to his family's New York City real estate investments. The Durst Organization was founded by his grandfather and is now run by his brother and cousin. After a civil lawsuit in 2006, Robert Durst cut ties with his family and 10 Manhattan skyscrapers in return for a $65 million settlement, The New York Times reported. Hide Caption 8 of 10Photos: Real-estate heir Robert Durst The front page of the New York Daily News on February 9, 1982. Durst's one-time wife, Kathie, went missing that year, and no one has been charged in her disappearance. Durst has said the last time he saw her was when he dropped her off at a train station in Westchester, New York, so she could head back to medical school in the city. Hide Caption 9 of 10