Los Angeles (CNN) Thirty years after the first of the Grim Sleeper serial killer victims was found fatally shot and discarded in a South Los Angeles alley, Lonnie David Franklin Jr. is facing a jury in a downtown courtroom.Franklin, a former garbage collector and police garage attendant, is charged with killing one girl and nine women ranging in age from 15 to 35 over a span of three decades. Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty. Opening statements began Tuesday.The killings for which Franklin is charged came in spurts that were 13 years apart, resulting in the nickname "the Grim Sleeper" for the period of apparent inactivity.Lonnie David Franklin Jr. is accused of being the Los Angeles-area serial killer known as the Grim Sleeper.Franklin, 63, has pleaded not guilty. His attorney has promised a vigorous defense of the man neighbors described as friendly, helpful and reliable."All I can say is stayed tuned," said the lawyer, Seymour Amster.The trial is expected to last two to three months, said Deputy District Attorney Beth Silverman, the lead prosecutor on the case.Silverman told the jury Tuesday that the murders "followed a pattern."Victims were taken from a murder scene, and their bodies were dumped in alleys and trash bins, concealed by garbage or mattresses, the prosecutor said."Most of them were in various states of undress," she said in her opening statement. "Some were missing their bras. ... Some were missing their underwear."All bodies were "Jane Does" when first discovered, and relatives had to identify them later."All tested positive for cocaine, except one," Silverman said of the autopsies.The defense reserved its opening statements until after the prosecution completes its list of witnesses, at which point the defense will begin presenting its side to the jury.A case with a lot of notorietyThe case has already spawned a documentary about Franklin, an "official" website and a made-for-TV movie about a local reporter whose stories for the LA Weekly drew attention to the case.The LAPD has been both criticized for failing to alert the community sooner that there was a serial killer on the prowl (before Franklin was identified by name) and heralded for doggedly pursuing the case once the more recent slayings were discovered.Evidence in the case will span three decades of policing in Los Angeles: From the murderous, crack-fueled 1980s, during which at least two serial killers were operating in South L.A., to the relative calm of the 2000s and the creation of an LAPD cold case unit charged with taking fresh looks at unsolved slayings, to the modern era of advanced DNA testing.Prosecutors say they have tied Franklin to the killings with physical evidence, including saliva collected from bodies, and ballistic matches between slugs recovered from crime scenes and a .25 caliber handgun seized from Franklin's home the day he was arrested.A woman alleged to be a surviving victim of Franklin is expected to be a star witness against him.Enietra Washington was shot in the chest with a .25 caliber handgun and sexually assaulted before escaping. She has since identified Franklin as her assailant. In addition to the 10 counts of murder, Franklin is charged with one count of attempted murder in Washington's attack.Back to the 1980sThe first killing spree attributed to Franklin began in the summer of 1985 and seemingly ended three years later. Police did not know his identity at the time but had linked seven slayings to the same .25 caliber handgun. The bodies of the victims were found scattered in alleys around South Los Angeles, often covered in debris.The then-unknown killer apparently fell dormant for years.Decades later, in 2007, LAPD homicide detectives got word from the department's forensic lab of "case to case hits" linking one person's DNA to unsolved slayings in 2002, 2003 and 2007, according to Detective Dennis Kilcoyne.Photos: Photos: Debra Jackson – On August 10, 1985, cocktail waitress Debra Jackson, 29, left her friend's Lynwood house and went to take a bus to her apartment in South-Central Los Angeles. Her body, with three gunshot wounds to the chest, was found days later in an alley. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Henrietta Wright – Henrietta Wright, 35, was found dead August 12, 1986, in a South Los Angeles alley. Wright, who was shot twice in the chest, was found barefoot, wrapped in a blanket and covered with a mattress. Police said her mouth had been gagged with a cloth. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Barbara Ware – Barbara Ware, 23, was found dead January 10, 1987. Ware's body was found under a pile of trash in an alley. She had been shot once in the chest. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Bernita Sparks – On April 15, 1987, 26-year-old Bernita Sparks told her mother she needed to go to the store for cigarettes but never returned. She was found the next day in a trash bin, covered in garbage. She had been beaten, strangled and shot in the chest. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Mary Lowe – Late on Halloween night in 1987, 26-year-old Mary Lowe told her mother she was going to a party. It was the last time she was seen. Her body was found the next day in an alley. She had been shot once in the chest. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Lachrica Jefferson – The body of 22-year-old Lachrica Jefferson was found January 30, 1988. Like the other victims, she had been shot in the chest and left in an alley. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Alicia Alexander – On September 11, 1988, Alicia "Monique" Alexander asked her father whether he needed anything from the liquor store before leaving the house. The body of the 18-year-old was found days later in an alley. Police said she had been sexually assaulted and shot in the chest. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Princess Berthomieux – Princess Berthomieux disappeared December 21, 2001. No clues into the 15-year-old's whereabouts came until March 19, 2002, when her body was found in an alley. She was strangled and beaten. DNA on her body matched DNA left on the bodies of the other victims, signaling to police that the killer's 13-year hiatus was over. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Valerie McCorvey – The body of 35-year-old Valerie McCorvey was found in an alley on July 11, 2003. Police said she had been sexually assaulted and strangled. They initially suspected her boyfriend until DNA on her body was found to match DNA of earlier victims. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Janecia Peters – A homeless man found the body of Janecia Peters, 25, on January 1, 2007. She had been shot in the back and placed in a garbage bag. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Enietra Washington – Enietra Washington is the only known survivor of the Grim Sleeper. She was raped and shot in November 1988 before she managed to escape. Washington is expected to be the star witness in the trial of the accused killer, Lonnie David Franklin Jr. Franklin is charged with attempted murder in Washington's attack. Hide Caption 11 of 11Detectives were unable to match the killer's DNA to any known samples contained in databanks. The department formed a task force, which soon discovered that the killings in the 2000s were connected to the unsolved spree in the 1980s, Kilcoyne wrote in a statement submitted to a congressional subcommittee investigating the use of DNA in so-called cold cases.In 2008, detectives submitted crime scene DNA from both sprees to the California Department of Justice to conduct a "familia search" to determine whether a close relative of the unknown killer was in a state databank of convicted felons' DNA.The search came back negative.But a second attempt, conducted two years later, yielded a hit, Kilcoyne wrote. It matched the DNA to a recently convicted felon.The criminal's father turned out to be Franklin, according to authorities.Detectives placed Franklin under 24-hour surveillance and came up with a plan to obtain a sample of his DNA.An undercover officer posed as a waiter at a local restaurant and collected a pizza crust left behind by the suspect. DNA taken from the crust matched DNA left by the suspect in multiple murders, Kilcoyne wrote.An arrest and puzzled neighborsWhen police raided his South Los Angeles home, they discovered photos and videos of 180 women . Police have since accounted for the identities and whereabouts of most of them, but the circumstances surrounding about 30 of the women remain unknown.In the wake of Franklin's arrest, neighbors told reporters it was difficult to reconcile the charges with the pleasant, helpful man they knew.Steve Robinson, who lived across the street from Franklin and said he knew him for more than 20 years, said he had no inkling that his friend could be capable of the acts he's alleged to have committed."He was just a good guy," Robinson said. But as the case heads to trial, Robinson said, "all the evidence points toward him.""DNA don't lie," he added.Silverman, the prosecutor, said multiple postponements of the long-awaited trial have taken a toll on the victims' loved ones.The mothers of two of the victims died during the more than five years since Franklin's arrest, she said."That means they won't get to see justice for their daughters or be there for victim impact statements," if he's convicted, she said. "It's beyond frustrating."