There's an aging quarterback in a Denver Broncos uniform who potentially could finish his career on top by winning what could be his final game, a Super Bowl.Yes, Peyton Manning -- who, at age 39, will be the oldest starting quarterback in Super Bowl history when he takes the field for Super Bowl 50 at Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara, California, against the Carolina Panthers -- likely is trying to do just that. Manning won't confirm that Sunday will be his last game. But it sure feels that way.Manning isn't the first quarterback in Bronco history to try and do this, and that's no coincidence.His boss, John Elway, the Broncos' general manager and executive vice president of football operations, brought Manning to Denver in 2012. When he convinced Manning to play for the Broncos, Elway, according to ESPN, promised the future NFL Hall-of-Famer that he would do everything in his power to help him finish his career in the way he finished his.Now, it's Manning's turn.Could history repeat itself?Back on January 31, 1999, in Super Bowl XXXIII, Elway, then 38, earned Super Bowl Most Valuable Player honors for guiding the Broncos to victory over the Atlanta Falcons. At the time, Elway was the oldest quarterback in Super Bowl history, and he rode off into retirement with his second championship.The same scenario could play out on Sunday with Manning winning his second ring -- the first coming with the Indianapolis Colts. Should he win Super Bowl 50, Manning would become the first quarterback to win Super Bowls with more than one team."(Manning) doesn't need to worry or think about retirement now," Elway said earlier this week. "He's worked too hard to get where he is now. There's no sense in talking about whether he's going to end it now or not. He has plenty of time in the off-season to reminisce and look back. His key thing is to concentrate and stay in the moment. This is what he worked for."Denver head coach Gary Kubiak once was Elway's backup quarterback, and he recognizes Manning's opportunity."I think that is special," Kubiak said. "It doesn't happen for just everybody. It's hard enough to get to this game, and when guys have an opportunity to go out that way, looking back at John's situation when we played Atlanta the second time... that was very special."Cam Newton 'could play any position in the NFL'Standing between Manning and history are the Panthers, and quarterback Cam Newton, 26, is the NFL's next big superstar.In many ways, this feels like one era is ending and another is beginning. It is the largest age gap in Super Bowl history between the starting quarterbacks and the first Super Bowl pitting quarterbacks who were No. 1 overall NFL draft picks, Manning in 1998 and Newton in 2011.Manning is a classic pocket passer. Newton, meanwhile, is redefining the position with his size, power, arm and speed. "Super Cam" has become a superstar this season, scoring touchdowns with his arm and his legs, at times doing front flips into the end zone. In the NFC Championship Game, a 49-15 win against the Arizona Cardinals, Newton passed for 335 yards and two touchdowns, and rushed for two more."How many 6-6 quarterbacks do you see like him that are 260 that run like he does and throws like he does?" Panthers head coach Ron Rivera asked rhetorically. "He's different."Broncos cornerback Aqib Talib called Newton "super unique" and said he "could play any position in the NFL that [he] wanted to.""He's definitely a unique player," Talib said. "He's probably the most dangerous quarterback in the NFL right now."Newton has been in the league for five years, but this has been his breakout season. He is the first player in NFL history with at least 30 passing touchdowns and 10 rushing scores in a single season. No one has ever had more combined rushing and passing yards in his first five seasons.Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Quarterback Steve Young threw six touchdowns passes -- a Super Bowl record -- as his San Francisco 49ers blew out San Diego 49-26 in January 1995. Look back at more Super Bowl records, including the greatest games, the greatest plays and the greatest winners. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Most passing yards in a Super Bowl: New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady threw for 505 yards in 2018, and his team still lost to Philadelphia 41-33. Brady broke the record he set just one year earlier when he led his team to a 34-28 overtime victory over Atlanta. Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Most receiving yards in a Super Bowl: San Francisco wide receiver Jerry Rice was named Super Bowl MVP in 1989 after he caught 11 balls for a record 215 yards against Cincinnati. The Hall of Famer also holds Super Bowl records for most points and most touchdowns in a career. He scored six touchdowns over four Super Bowls. Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Most rushing yards in a Super Bowl: Washington quarterback Doug Williams won the Super Bowl MVP award in 1988, but rookie running back Timmy Smith set a Super Bowl record that year with 204 rushing yards against Denver. Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Most interceptions in a Super Bowl: Oakland linebacker Rod Martin (No. 53) had three interceptions as the Raiders defeated the Philadelphia Eagles in 1981. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Most Super Bowl wins for one player: Tom Brady has won six Super Bowls, all with New England. In his 18 NFL seasons, he's been to nine Super Bowls. Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Most Super Bowl wins for a head coach: Bill Belichick, with Brady as his quarterback, has won six Super Bowls as head coach of the Patriots. Belichick also won two Super Bowls as an assistant coach with the New York Giants. Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Longest scoring play in a Super Bowl: Baltimore's Jacoby Jones returned a kickoff 108 yards as the Ravens defeated San Francisco 34-31 in 2013. Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Longest pass in a Super Bowl: Carolina wide receiver Muhsin Muhammad caught an 85-yard touchdown pass from Jake Delhomme during Super Bowl XXXVIII in 2004. Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Longest run in a Super Bowl: "Fast" Willie Parker broke a 75-yard run for a Pittsburgh touchdown in 2006. Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Longest interception return in a Super Bowl: Pittsburgh's James Harrison picked off Arizona's Kurt Warner on the last play of the first half and rumbled 100 yards for a touchdown in 2009. Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Longest fumble return in a Super Bowl: Almost everything came up roses for the Dallas Cowboys in 1993, as they crushed Buffalo 52-17 in the Rose Bowl. But defensive lineman Leon Lett had an embarrassing moment late in the game when he was returning a fumble for what looked to be a sure touchdown. Lett returned the ball 64 yards, but he started showboating early and was stripped by Buffalo's Don Beebe. Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Fastest score in a Super Bowl: On the first play from scrimmage in 2014, Denver center Manny Ramirez snapped the ball past quarterback Peyton Manning. Denver's Knowshon Moreno recovered the ball in the end zone for a Seattle safety. Only 12 seconds had elapsed. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives First score in Super Bowl history: In the first quarter of what we know now as Super Bowl I, Green Bay Packers wide receiver Max McGee scored a touchdown on a 37-yard pass from Bart Starr. McGee made the catch with one hand, reaching behind him before speeding past the defender. Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Largest margin of victory in a Super Bowl: San Francisco demolished Denver 55-10 in 1990, winning by a record 45 points. It was the 49ers' fourth Super Bowl title in nine years. Hide Caption 15 of 16 Photos: Longest, fastest, greatest: Super Bowl superlatives Smallest margin of victory in a Super Bowl: Buffalo kicker Scott Norwood missed a 47-yard field goal as time expired, and the New York Giants beat the Bills 20-19 in 1991. Hide Caption 16 of 16After the Panthers won the NFC Championship Game, Newton was asked to reflect on that five-year journey."Long time it feels like, but yet we've still got a long way to go," Newton said. "I'm excited."I said it then, and I'll say it now: It was a process. It wasn't going to be -- what did I say -- instant grits, quick grits. It was going to be a process like long-cooked collard greens. I think those collard greens are brewing right now. You can smell it from a mile away."Newton has led a Panthers offense that scored 31.3 points per game in the regular season, tops in the NFL. In their two postseason games, the Panthers are averaging 40 points per game.The Broncos' defense -- which led the NFL in total defense, pass defense and sacks in the regular season -- has a huge task on its hands in containing Newton."It's amazing," Broncos defensive coordinator Wade Phillips said. "He's a special talent, a rare talent.""This league has the best of everything. I mean, you look at some of the great throwers in this league ... and then now you got a guy who's got a combination of everything. Not only beating people with his arm but with his feet, his ability to move around. He's also doing a lot of things on the line of scrimmage, which is very impressive to us as we prepare to play him. They've given him a lot of freedom. ... He is a top-notch drop-back quarterback, but he can run with it better than the rest of them."Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl I (1967) – Green Bay Packers quarterback Bart Starr was named the Most Valuable Player of the first Super Bowl, which in January 1967 was just called the AFL-NFL World Championship Game. Starr threw for 250 yards and two touchdowns as the Packers defeated Kansas City 35-10 at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. Hide Caption 1 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl II (1968) – Starr repeated the feat one year later as the Packers won back-to-back titles. Starr had 202 yards passing and one touchdown as Green Bay blew out Oakland 33-14. Hide Caption 2 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl III (1969) – The New York Jets came into Super Bowl III as 18-point underdogs, but quarterback Joe Namath famously guaranteed that his team would upset the Baltimore Colts. After Namath led the way to a 16-7 victory, he was named the game's Most Valuable Player. Hide Caption 3 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl IV (1970) – The Kansas City Chiefs lost the first Super Bowl, but they made it count the second time around. Quarterback Len Dawson had 142 yards and a touchdown as the Chiefs beat the Minnesota Vikings 23-7 in New Orleans. It was the second straight year that the AFL champions had defeated the NFL champions, and by the next season the two leagues had merged. Hide Caption 4 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl V (1971) – Dallas Cowboys linebacker Chuck Howley, right, holds onto one of his two interceptions against the Baltimore Colts in Super Bowl V. Howley was named the game's MVP, but the Colts won the notoriously sloppy game with a Jim O'Brien field goal as time expired. To date, Howley remains the only player from a losing team to be named Super Bowl MVP. Hide Caption 5 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl VI (1972) – Dallas atoned for its loss the next season, shutting down the Miami Dolphins 24-3. MVP quarterback Roger Staubach had two touchdown passes. Hide Caption 6 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl VII (1973) – Miami safety Jake Scott intercepts a fourth-quarter pass in the end zone during the Dolphins' 14-7 win over Washington in Super Bowl VII. Scott had two interceptions in the game as the Dolphins finished their season with a perfect 17-0 record. They are still the only NFL team ever to finish a season undefeated. Hide Caption 7 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl VIII (1974) – Powerful running back Larry Csonka carries two Minnesota defenders near the end zone as Miami won its second Super Bowl in a row. Csonka became the first running back to win Super Bowl MVP, rushing for 145 yards and two touchdowns. Hide Caption 8 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl IX (1975) – Pittsburgh Steelers running back Franco Harris fights off Minnesota defender Paul Krause during Pittsburgh's 16-6 victory in Super Bowl IX. Harris ran for 158 yards and a touchdown on his way to winning MVP. Hide Caption 9 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl X (1976) – This diving catch from Pittsburgh wide receiver Lynn Swann is one of the most iconic plays in Super Bowl history. Swann had a touchdown and 161 yards receiving as the Steelers defeated Dallas 21-17 to win their second straight Super Bowl. Swann was the first wide receiver to win MVP. Hide Caption 10 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XI (1977) – Oakland Raiders wide receiver Fred Biletnikoff caught four passes for 79 yards to win MVP honors in Super Bowl XI. The Raiders won 32-14 over Minnesota, knocking the Vikings to 0-4 in Super Bowls. Hide Caption 11 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XII (1978) – A dominating performance by Dallas' "Doomsday Defense" led to the first and only time that two players would share the Super Bowl MVP award. Defensive linemen Randy White, left, and Harvey Martin helped the Cowboys force eight turnovers and defeat Denver 27-10. Hide Caption 12 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XIII (1979) – The Steelers and the Cowboys met for a Super Bowl rematch in 1979, and this game ended the same way as the one three years earlier -- with a Pittsburgh victory. This time, however, it was Steelers quarterback Terry Bradshaw who won MVP, throwing for 318 yards and four touchdowns as Pittsburgh edged Dallas 35-31. Hide Caption 13 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XIV (1980) – Bradshaw led the way again in Super Bowl XIV, throwing for 309 yards and a pair of touchdowns as the Steelers defeated the Los Angeles Rams 31-19. It was the Steelers' fourth title in six years. Hide Caption 14 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XV (1981) – Oakland quarterback Jim Plunkett scrambles during the Raiders' 27-10 victory over the Philadelphia Eagles in 1981. Plunkett had 261 yards passing and three touchdowns on his way to winning MVP. Hide Caption 15 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XVI (1982) – San Francisco 49ers quarterback Joe Montana evades a tackle en route to winning MVP honors in Super Bowl XVI. Montana threw for one touchdown in the game and ran for another as the 49ers won 26-21. Hide Caption 16 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XVII (1983) – Washington running back John Riggins bursts through a hole during the Redskins' 27-17 victory over Miami in Super Bowl XVII. Riggins was named MVP after rushing for 166 yards and a touchdown. Hide Caption 17 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XVIII (1984) – Washington was on the losing end one year later as MVP running back Marcus Allen exploded for 191 yards and two touchdowns. Allen's Raiders, who had recently moved from Oakland to Los Angeles, blew out the Redskins 38-9. Hide Caption 18 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XIX (1985) – Three years after winning his first Super Bowl MVP award, Joe Montana was at it again as he led the 49ers to a 38-16 victory over Miami. This time, "Joe Cool" threw for 331 yards and three touchdowns. Hide Caption 19 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XX (1986) – Chicago Bears defensive end Richard Dent (No. 95) sacks New England quarterback Steve Grogan during Super Bowl XX. Dent had two sacks and two forced fumbles as a devastating defense helped Chicago crush the Patriots 46-10. Hide Caption 20 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXI (1987) – New York Giants quarterback Phil Simms had a performance for the ages in Super Bowl XXI, completing 22 of 25 passes as the Giants beat Denver 39-20. It remains a Super Bowl record for completion percentage. Simms also had 268 yards passing and three touchdowns. Hide Caption 21 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXII (1988) – The Washington Redskins trailed 10-0 after a quarter of play at Super Bowl XXII, but quarterback Doug Williams threw four touchdowns in the second quarter and the rout was on. The Redskins rolled to a 42-10 victory, and Williams was named MVP after finishing with 340 passing yards. Hide Caption 22 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXIII (1989) – San Francisco wide receiver Jerry Rice catches a 14-yard touchdown pass against Cincinnati in Super Bowl XXIII. Rice finished with 11 receptions for a Super Bowl-record 215 yards. Hide Caption 23 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXIV (1990) – San Francisco quarterback Joe Montana raises his arms in celebration after a 49ers touchdown in Super Bowl XXIV. Montana had 297 yards passing and five touchdowns as the 49ers defeated Denver 55-10. It was the biggest blowout in Super Bowl history. Montana collected his third MVP award, and the 49ers capped a glorious run with four titles in nine years. Hide Caption 24 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXV (1991) – Super Bowl XXV will likely always be remembered for Buffalo kicker Scott Norwood missing a field goal as time expired. But New York Giants running back Ottis Anderson won MVP in what was the closest Super Bowl ever. Anderson had 102 yards and a touchdown as the Giants prevailed 20-19. Hide Caption 25 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXVI (1992) – The Washington Redskins won three Super Bowls in 10 years, and each came with a different starting quarterback. This time it was Mark Rypien, who was named MVP after throwing for 292 yards and two touchdowns as the Redskins defeated Buffalo 37-24. Hide Caption 26 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXVII (1993) – Dallas quarterback Troy Aikman had 273 yards and four touchdowns as the Cowboys won their first Super Bowl since 1978. Dallas trounced Buffalo 52-17, handing the Bills their third straight Super Bowl loss. Hide Caption 27 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXVIII (1994) – Dallas running back Emmitt Smith is surrounded by the media after his MVP performance against Buffalo in Super Bowl XXVIII. Smith rushed for 132 yards and three touchdowns as Dallas won 30-13 in a Super Bowl rematch from one year earlier. Hide Caption 28 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXIX (1995) – After serving as Joe Montana's backup for several years, San Francisco quarterback Steve Young got his moment to shine in 1995. Young threw for a Super Bowl-record six touchdowns as the 49ers defeated the San Diego Chargers 49-26. Hide Caption 29 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXX (1996) – Dallas Cowboys cornerback Larry Brown is pushed out of bounds after one of his two interceptions in Super Bowl XXX. Brown's MVP efforts helped the Cowboys beat Pittsburgh 27-17 for their third championship in four years. Hide Caption 30 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXXI (1997) – Super Bowl MVP Desmond Howard jumps into a crowd of Green Bay Packers fans after the Packers defeated New England 35-21 in Super Bowl XXXI. Howard had 244 all-purpose yards, including a 99-yard kickoff return for a touchdown. Hide Caption 31 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXXII (1998) – Denver Broncos running back Terrell Davis does his signature "Mile High Salute" after scoring a touchdown against Green Bay in Super Bowl XXXII. Davis rushed for 157 yards and three touchdowns on his way to winning MVP. Hide Caption 32 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXXIII (1999) – Denver quarterback John Elway smiles after scoring a touchdown in Super Bowl XXXIII. Elway was named MVP of the game, throwing for 336 yards as the Broncos won back-to-back titles with a 34-19 victory over Atlanta. It was Elway's last game before he retired. Hide Caption 33 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXXIV (2000) – MVP quarterback Kurt Warner celebrates after leading the St. Louis Rams to a 23-16 victory over Tennessee in Super Bowl XXXIV. Warner threw for a Super Bowl-record 414 yards, leading an offense that had been nicknamed "The Greatest Show on Turf." Hide Caption 34 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXXV (2001) – One year after a high-powered offense won the Super Bowl, it was a suffocating defense that won in 2001. MVP linebacker Ray Lewis set the tone for a Baltimore Ravens team that shut down the New York Giants en route to a 34-7 victory. Hide Caption 35 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXXVI (2002) – A star was born in Super Bowl XXXVI as second-year quarterback Tom Brady led the New England Patriots to an upset victory over the heavily favored St. Louis Rams. Brady threw for 145 yards and a touchdown as the Patriots won 20-17 on a last-second field goal by Adam Vinatieri. Hide Caption 36 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXXVII (2003) – Tampa Bay safety Dexter Jackson had two interceptions for a vaunted Buccaneers defense that led the way to a 48-21 victory over Oakland in Super Bowl XXXVII. Hide Caption 37 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXXVIII (2004) – New England quarterback Tom Brady, left, celebrates with teammates after winning a second Super Bowl in three years. Brady was MVP again, throwing for 354 yards and three touchdowns as the Patriots defeated the Carolina Panthers 32-29. Hide Caption 38 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XXXIX (2005) – The Patriots became champions for the third time in four years as they defeated Philadelphia 24-21 in Super Bowl XXXIX. This time it was wide receiver Deion Branch who won MVP. He had 11 receptions for 133 yards. Hide Caption 39 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XL (2006) – Pittsburgh wide receiver Hines Ward struts into the end zone during the Steelers' 21-10 victory over Seattle. Ward had 123 yards on five catches as the Steelers won their first Super Bowl since 1980. Hide Caption 40 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XLI (2007) – Quarterback Peyton Manning threw for 247 yards and a touchdown in Super Bowl XLI, leading the Indianapolis Colts to a 29-17 victory over Chicago. Hide Caption 41 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XLII (2008) – Manning's brother Eli won MVP the next season, as his New York Giants upset the New England Patriots and ended their hopes of an undefeated season. Manning threw for two touchdowns as the Giants won 17-14. Hide Caption 42 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XLIII (2009) – Pittsburgh wide receiver Santonio Holmes grabs the game-winning touchdown as the Steelers rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat Arizona 27-23 in Super Bowl XLIII. Holmes finished with nine catches for 131 yards. Hide Caption 43 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XLIV (2010) – New Orleans Saints quarterback Drew Brees raises his son Baylen after the Saints beat Indianapolis 31-17 in Super Bowl XLIV. Brees completed 32 of 39 passes for 288 yards and two touchdowns. Hide Caption 44 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XLV (2011) – Quarterback Aaron Rodgers had 304 passing yards and three touchdowns as the Green Bay Packers defeated Pittsburgh 31-25. Hide Caption 45 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XLVI (2012) – Eli Manning did it to the Patriots again, as the New York Giants beat New England in a Super Bowl rematch from 2008. Manning had 296 yards passing this time as the Giants won 21-17. Hide Caption 46 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XLVII (2013) – Baltimore Ravens quarterback Joe Flacco fights off San Francisco linebacker Ahmad Brooks during Super Bowl XLVII, which the Ravens won 34-31. Flacco had 287 yards and three touchdowns in a game that was interrupted for 34 minutes because of a power outage. Hide Caption 47 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XLVIII (2014) – Seattle Seahawks linebacker Malcolm Smith runs an interception back for a touchdown during Seattle's 43-8 drubbing of Denver in Super Bowl XLVIII. Smith and Seattle's "Legion of Boom" defense stifled Peyton Manning and Denver's No. 1-rated offense. Hide Caption 48 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl XLIX (2015) – New England's Tom Brady pumps his fist after throwing one of his four touchdown passes in the Patriots' 28-24 victory over Seattle. Brady joined Joe Montana as the only players to win three Super Bowl MVPs. Hide Caption 49 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl 50 (2016) – Denver linebacker Von Miller knocks the ball out of Cam Newton's hand during the Broncos' 24-10 victory over Carolina. Miller had two forced fumbles in the game. Both were deep in Carolina territory, and one was recovered by a teammate for a touchdown. Hide Caption 50 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl LI (2017) – Tom Brady threw for a Super Bowl-record 466 yards as New England completed the biggest comeback in Super Bowl history. The Patriots trailed Atlanta 28-3 in the third quarter but rallied to win in overtime. It was Brady's fourth MVP award -- an NFL record. Hide Caption 51 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl LII (2018) – Nick Foles wasn't the Philadelphia Eagles' starting quarterback for most of the season. But after Carson Wentz went down for the year with a knee injury, Foles stepped up and led the team to the title. He finished the playoff run by throwing for 373 yards and three touchdowns in a 41-33 victory over New England. He also caught a touchdown pass on a trick play. Hide Caption 52 of 53 Photos: Super Bowl MVPs Super Bowl LIII (2019) – New England Patriots wide receiver Julian Edelman was one of the few offensive bright spots in what was the lowest-scoring Super Bowl of all time. He caught 10 passes for 141 yards as the Patriots defeated the Los Angeles Rams 13-3 for their sixth Lombardi Trophy. Hide Caption 53 of 53With a Super Bowl ring, Newton would have the "grand slam" of college football and NFL hardware: the Heisman, a national championship, an NFL MVP Award (he's all but a lock to win; the announcement is Saturday night) and a Super Bowl ring. The only other player to accomplish all those feats was Marcus Allen, who played for the University of Southern California and the Los Angeles Raiders.There's another sign that times have changed. African-American quarterbacks will have started in four consecutive Super Bowls once Newton takes the field (Russell Wilson of Seattle in the last two, and Colin Kaepernick of San Francisco).Newton: This game is bigger than black, whiteThat being said, Newton is tired of talking about race.He sparked a debate last week when he was asked why he thinks he's become more of a lightning rod than other athletes. Newton didn't mince words."I'm an African-American quarterback. That may scare a lot of people because they haven't seen nothing that they can compare me to," Newton said.Predictably, the subject came up again in the Bay Area. "What do you want your legacy to be as a black quarterback?" a reporter asked him on Tuesday.This time, Newton's take was different."I don't even want to touch on the topic of black quarterback, because I think this game is bigger than black, white or even green," he said. "So I think we limit ourselves when we just label ourselves just black, this, that and the third. I wanted to bring awareness because of that, but yet I don't think I should be labeled just a black quarterback, because it's bigger things in this sport that need to be accomplished."A different reporter Tuesday had borderline adversarial questions about stereotypes of black quarterbacks."It's not an issue," Newton replied emphatically. "It's an issue for you."His trajectory has been upward since a car accident in December 2014. In that time the Panthers have won 20 of 22 games. This isn't a fad; Newton isn't going anywhere. This is just the beginning, and Manning knows it."What he's done in the short time being an NFL quarterback, he's been awesome," Manning said. "It's the best word I can think of. He's been a great passer, he's been a great runner, he's been a great leader. You don't go 17-1 as a starting quarterback without being awesome, and that's what he's been this year without a doubt."Manning; 'This might be my last rodeo'While "Superman" is still on the rise, time is running short for "the Sheriff."Retirement likely isn't far from Manning's mind. Following Denver's win over New England, NFL Films picked up the audio of Manning telling Patriots head coach Bill Belichick at midfield, "This might be my last rodeo."A few days later, Manning joked about the exchange, but he didn't dispel any retirement talk, either."What happened to private conversations on the 50-yard-line?" Manning told the media with the hint of a smile. "I guess they just don't exist anymore. No confirmation on that whatsoever. We are on to Carolina."Manning reaffirmed that after arriving in the Bay Area."Yeah, I haven't made up my mind, but I don't see myself knowing that until after the season," said Manning, who turns 40 next month. "Whatever cliché you want to use, but I kind of stay in the moment and focus on the task at hand and just deal with this week. That's what I've done all season."According to NFL.com and NFL Network's Ian Rapoport, Manning has told close friends that he expects Sunday to be his final game . However, Manning's family members have previously said they don't know one way or the other."He's not said anything to me about it," said brother and New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning. "I don't know if it is [his last game], but because of that possibility, I hope that he can win this game and if he decides to hang it up, go out on top."Dad Archie Manning, a former NFL quarterback himself, said Peyton's 18-year "rodeo" has been a good one, but echoing Eli, he said, "I promise you he hasn't talked about [retirement]. Has not even brought it up."It's the same with his Denver teammates. They say they don't know what he'll do.Elway said it's unlikely Manning is thinking beyond Sunday, "that the bottom line is that he's trying to concentrate on winning a world championship, because that's what it's all about.""That's what he's worked for this whole season and throughout his career ... so anytime we get a chance to compete for a world championship, you want your full concentration on that. Peyton has been through it enough, so that's what he's thinking about."Manning is the NFL's No.1 all-time passer in yards (71,940) and touchdowns (539), but his numbers this season weren't nearly as gaudy as they used to be. He threw only nine TD passes and 17 interceptions during the regular season, six games of which he missed with a partially torn plantar fascia in his left foot.But Manning's mind is as sharp as ever, and he showed in the AFC Championship Game that he has something left physically, throwing two touchdown passes. Before that game, he had only thrown for one score at Sports Authority Field at Mile High all season."I want to win for Peyton," Broncos linebacker Brandon Marshall said. "I love this team and he deserves it. I know everybody uses the term 'ride off into the sunset.' I want to see that happen."No sentimental feelings from the PanthersPardon the Panthers for not being nostalgic about Manning's situation."We don't really care if this is his last game," Panthers fullback Mike Tolbert said, according to the Charlotte Observer . "He's played what -- 18, 19 years? He's had enough, you know what I'm saying? It's our turn."Carolina safety Tre Boston agreed and added his own analogy."So if a man has the last piece of pizza in the world, are you going to take that last piece?" Boston asked. "One of y'all got to live. One of us has to win, and I'm not trying to lose. It's you and that one man. You gonna live or not? I'm trying to win. I don't care who you are."Panthers cornerback Josh Norman said it would be "huge" to beat a legend like Manning, and to get an interception "would be everything I've worked for," and if it happens, "I'll just do my best and try to contain myself and not get a personal foul because I'll probably get so excited, I might do something stupid."Does the Panthers head coach think a lot of America will be rooting for Manning?"Probably," head coach Rivera told the Observer. "Which is fine. ... It's one of those things that you've most certainly got to respect and you do pay attention to. I'm kind of hoping there are a whole bunch of Panthers fans and [rival Oakland] Raiders fans who are thinking otherwise, though."Elway: Manning's legacy is setManning ranks second in playoff history in passing yards (7,022), completions (619) and attempts (972), trailing only New England's Tom Brady. He also ranks fourth all-time in postseason touchdown passes with 40, but he's only got one Super Bowl ring, and a loss Sunday would be his third time coming up short.But Elway -- who was part of three Super Bowl-losing teams himself -- said the Sheriff's Super Bowl win-loss record won't be what defines him."This is not a make-or-break game for Peyton," Elway said. "His legacy is already set. He's already going to go down as one of the greatest players to ever play the game, so if anything this will do is just add to that legacy."