(CNN) The wildfires near Los Angeles are under control, but the threat isn't over. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. North KoreaNorth Korea said it successfully tested a hydrogen bomb over the weekend -- its sixth nuclear test and the most powerful weapon the country's ever tested. Reaction around the world was strong: President Trump condemned it, saying the North continues "to be very hostile and dangerous" to the US. The President also threatened any country ( that would be China ) that trades with North Korea. UN Ambassador Nikki Haley said Kim Jong Un was "begging for war" and urged the UN Security Council for more sanctions.South Korea conducted a live-fire military drill in response to the test, using surface-to-surface missiles and fighter jets to hit targets off its own coast. Now, a South Korean lawmaker says the North is moving an intercontinental ballistic missile . US Defense Secretary James Mattis promised a "massive military response" if the North attacked the US or its allies, but military analysts say the US doesn't have a lot of good options when it comes to dealing with the regime.2. HurricanesLast week it was Harvey; this week it's Irma. Hurricane Irma is a Category 4 storm out in the Atlantic, and it's expected to hit the Caribbean , then perhaps Florida. Puerto Rico could start feeling Irma's effects by the end of today, and the storm could make landfall on Anguilla on Wednesday. It's possible Irma could be on Florida's east coast by the weekend.JUST WATCHED Irma approaches, Florida declares emergency Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Irma approaches, Florida declares emergency 01:10JUST WATCHED Woman reunites with her rescuer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman reunites with her rescuer 02:033. DACAJUST WATCHED Trump's twists and turns on DACA Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump's twists and turns on DACA 02:304. MyanmarThe Rohingya are a stateless, Muslim minority in predominantly Buddhist Myanmar and are considered some of the most persecuted people in the world. Hundreds have died in recent clashes, and more than 73,000 of them have fled the country since the end of last month.JUST WATCHED Rohingya Muslims flee violence in Myanmar Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rohingya Muslims flee violence in Myanmar 02:335. Alzheimer's diseaseScientists may have developed a blood test that can accurately diagnose Alzheimer's disease . A new study in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences details the experimental test, which researchers say helped them ID Alzheimer's patients with up to 86% sensitivity and specificity. Right now, the only way to conclusively diagnose someone with Alzheimer's is after the person has died. But the test will have to be further evaluated, a process that will take years, before it can be used by doctors.JUST WATCHED How to prevent Alzheimer's disease Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How to prevent Alzheimer's disease 03:33BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.RIP, WalterOver the holiday weekend, the music world said good-bye to Walter Becker , one of the geniuses behind the jazzy pop of Steely Dan.Great expectationsRoyal watchers are over the moon with the news that Prince William and Kate are expecting baby No. 3JUST WATCHED William and Kate expecting third child Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH William and Kate expecting third child 00:48The droids you've been looking forThat cute little BB-8 droid will meet his evil twin when "Star Wars: The Last Jedi" takes over this galaxy in December.Scents on a planeFresh-baked bread. Vanilla bean. Lemongrass. The smells from your local farmer's market? Nope, just the scents that will fill your nose on your next first-class flight.Ladies of the fliesNUMBER OF THE DAY$0That's how much newspaper publisher Tronc is spending to buy the New York Daily NewsAND FINALLY ...'Become one with the vegetable'