(CNN) The Packers and the Bears stood and locked arms during the National Anthem before last night's game. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Private jet controversy2. Puerto RicoJUST WATCHED 'Hamilton' creator: Make noise for Puerto Rico Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Hamilton' creator: Make noise for Puerto Rico 01:503. ISISJUST WATCHED US intel analyzing new ISIS leader audio tape Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US intel analyzing new ISIS leader audio tape 01:584. Social media & politicsA social media campaign calling itself "Blacktivist" and linked to the Russian government used both Facebook and Twitter in an apparent attempt to amplify racial tensions during the US presidential election, two sources with knowledge of the matter told CNN. The Twitter account has been handed over to Congress; the Facebook account is expected to be handed over within days.JUST WATCHED Fake black activist accounts linked to Russia Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fake black activist accounts linked to Russia 03:105. SpainJUST WATCHED Spanish FM: Catalonia referendum is 'a charade' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Spanish FM: Catalonia referendum is 'a charade' 06:23QUOTE OF THE DAY"Social movements lack the capacity to be sued"Federal Judge Brian A. Jackson, who tossed out a lawsuit filed by a Baton Rouge police officer against Black Lives Matter and an activistBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Missions to MarsKeeping up with the KsA baby boom or sibling rivalry? Kim K says she's expecting , just days after news of sister Kylie's pregnancy broke. And now, there are reports about KhloeExecutive (star) powerThe Presidents Cup golf tourney in New Jersey more than lived up to its name, when ex-Presidents Obama, Bush and Clinton showed up.Second opinionHe thought he had a tumor in his lungs, until doctors opened him up and found the toy he swallowed 40 years ago.Phoning it inSteven Spielberg may be the greatest director alive, but he won't watch his own movies -- except the one about that cute little alien far away from home.NUMBER OF THE DAY27 yearsThat's how long it took for an arrest in a killer clown cold case out of Florida.JUST WATCHED Arrest in killer clown case 27 years later Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Arrest in killer clown case 27 years later 01:02AND FINALLY ...Bears vs. bear-proof garbage can