(CNN) Looks like we might get flying cars (and electric ones at that!) after all. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Hurricane IrmaMeantime, Congress wants to put disaster relief for Hurricane Harvey on the fast track, but already politics is getting in the way . To speed things up, some GOP senators want to attach the disaster relief bill to a measure that would raise the debt ceiling. Sen. Rand Paul says he'll do "anything to try to stop that."2. DACABut then President Trump took to Twitter, of course, to say he'll "revisit" DACA if Congress doesn't "legalize" it within six months. So, what exactly does that mean? Would the President use executive power to deal with DACA (the same thing Obama got hammered for, BTW)? Does he want these young people to stay in the country, or will he fulfill his campaign promise to push them out? At any rate, this emotional issue probably will linger into 2018 -- an election year.JUST WATCHED Dreamers respond to DACA ending Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dreamers respond to DACA ending 02:133. Menendez trialJUST WATCHED What to know about Sen. Menendez's trial Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What to know about Sen. Menendez's trial 01:394. IranJUST WATCHED Haley on Iran deal: Can't put lipstick on a pig Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Haley on Iran deal: Can't put lipstick on a pig 00:49The nuke deal has been a boon to Iran in one area -- tourism. I t's booming there since the deal was enacted because the lifting of sanctions has meant the return of European airlines servicing the country. That's resulted in a 50% increase in visitors there compared with last year.JUST WATCHED Young tourists flock to Iran Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Young tourists flock to Iran 01:465. Height and healthWe all wish we could be taller, but maybe we'll be satisfied with our height after hearing this: How tall you are might have some bearing on certain health problems, like blood clots. A new study from the journal Circulation: Cardiovascular Genetics says height can be a predictor of your risk for blood clots. The taller you are, the greater the risk, the research showed (and blood clots are thought to kill between 60,000 to 100,000 Americans each year). Other health issues -- like cancer, heart problems and diabetes -- may also have some links to height.JUST WATCHED Blood clots and how to treat them Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Blood clots and how to treat them 03:28QUOTE OF THE DAY"We know very well, more than most, what it means to be deprived of human rights and democratic protection"Myanmar state counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi, who said her government will work to protect the rights of the Rohingya . The Nobel laureate has been criticized for not speaking out about the plight of the Rohingya, a Muslim minority considered some of most persecuted people in the world.JUST WATCHED Who are the Rohingya and why are they fleeing? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who are the Rohingya and why are they fleeing? 02:30BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Just like the rest of usMadonna's moved to Portugal, but just like us mere mortals, even she has trouble getting packages delivered to her new crib.If you can't beat 'em ...Stealing signs is as old as baseball itself, but the Red Sox -- always looking for an edge against the Yankees -- reportedly brought this theft into the digital eraWho's that lady?That would be former first lady Michelle Obama , who fell into "Formation" to celebrate Beyonce's 36th birthday.Wild about HarryFor the first time, actress Meghan Markle opens up about her relationship with Britain's Prince Harry in a Vanity Fair interview.Picture perfectScientists have created an algorithm for the perfect selfie , because apparently we can't do anything without an algorithm anymore.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening later.Nuke talkAND FINALLY ...Like clockwork