(CNN) Irma slammed into Florida this morning, threatening to devastate much of the state.We'll bring you the latest developments in our Click here ).You can find photos, videos and other articles about one of the strongest hurricanes ever seen in the Atlantic in ourpage ( Click here ).And you can follow our up-to-the-minute coverage on CNN.The latestHurricane Irma hit the Florida Keys this morning. The National Hurricane Center said the hurricane's eye made landfall at Cudjoe Key, Florida, in the lower Florida Keys just after 9 a.m. ET. Irma's a Category 4 hurricane right now, with sustained winds of 130 mph. It's also bringing with it storm surges that may reach as high as 15 feet. And they are a hurricane's greatest threat.JUST WATCHED See Hurricane Irma's wrath hit Florida Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See Hurricane Irma's wrath hit Florida 01:02What's nextIrma's path shifted slightly to the west overnight, sparing Miami a direct hit, but it put cities like Tampa, Fort Myers and Naples in its crosshairs. It'll drop to a Category 3 storm before it continues its trip north along Florida's west coast and into the panhandle. Irma will continue to weaken, but bring still-dangerous heavy rain and high winds tomorrow to parts of Georgia and Alabama , where hurricane and tropical storm watches and warnings have been issued.The responseRescue teams and first responders in Miami Beach and Collier County, Florida, won't be responding to emergency calls until the storm has passed and the violent winds die down. President Trump, meeting with his Cabinet at Camp David, said he approved emergency declarations in Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands. And FEMA has started a special page to debunk rumors and highlight scams.JUST WATCHED FEMA: Millions could lose power for days Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH FEMA: Millions could lose power for days 02:52The peopleJUST WATCHED These hurricane tips could save your life Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH These hurricane tips could save your life 01:10The other stormsHurricane Jose, a Category 4 storm, is actually moving away from some of the very same Caribbean islands hit a couple of days ago by Irma. Jose's on a track that will move it to the north. The third storm out there, Katia, made landfall Friday as a Category 1 hurricane in Mexico, where it's weakening and expected to break up.Quote of the day"You're on your own"Brock Long told Florida Keys residents who didn't evacuate. Residents That's what Federal Emergency Management Agency chieftold Florida Keys residents who didn't evacuate. Residents won't get immediate aid from federal first responders after the storm passes until it's safe for them to go in.Number of the dayMore than 560,000That's the number of customers without power this morning in south and central FloridaVideo of the day