The National Hurricane Center has issued hurricane and storm surge warnings for South Florida. The warning extends from Jupiter Inlet on the east coast of the state, southward around the Florida Peninsula to Bonita Beach on the west coast. The warning included the Florida Keys, Lake Okeechobee, and Florida Bay. The same area had previously been under a hurricane watch.[Story last published 10:51 p.m. ET]Conditions in the Turks and Caicos deteriorated Thursday as deadly and massive Hurricane Irma moved in on the islands -- and continued tracking toward South Florida where it could slam Miami this weekend."It has become more likely that Irma will make landfall in southern Florida as a dangerous major hurricane, and bring life-threatening storm surge and wind impacts to much of the state," the National Hurricane Center said Thursday.The hurricane center forecast moved the most likely path of the eye of the storm to the west in its 5 p.m. ET advisory."It looks like it's shifting, even though it may be just 20 miles, it puts Miami right in the worst possible position," CNN meteorologist Tom Sater said."Because when you look at the formidable storm, the strongest winds, the strongest storm surge, the bands of heavy rain are always in that north, northeastern quadrant."But Sater cautioned that some models show the storm farther west and some farther east. It is still more than 600 miles from Florida.Irma, a Category 5 storm churning in the Atlantic with 175 mph sustained winds, killed at least 10 people on Wednesday as it devastated small northeastern Caribbean islands such as Barbuda and left hundreds of thousands of customers in Puerto Rico without power."Regardless of which (Florida) coast you live on, be prepared to evacuate," Florida Gov. Rick Scott said Thursday at a news conference, with forecasters warning the storm could reach South Florida by Sunday.Mandatory evacuations have been issued for many counties in South Florida, but Scott said others in Florida need to watch Irma's path and be ready to move."This is not a storm you can sit and wait through," he said. He added later: "You don't have to drive hundreds of miles or leave the state to be safe. Go to shelters."Georgia, too, is ordering coastal evacuations. People in the Savannah area and everywhere along the coast east of Interstate 95 -- including Brunswick and St. Simons Island -- are ordered to leave, starting Saturday, Gov. Nathan Deal saidIrma still was battering the mountainous, northern parts of Haiti and the Dominican Republic on Thursday afternoon. It could dump up to 15 inches of rain there -- an amount that could trigger dangerous flooding and mudslides, the US National Hurricane Center said.Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Carmelo Mota, a builder, searches for tools in his destroyed home in Charlotte Amalie, US Virgin Islands, on Monday, September 18. Hurricane Irma devastated the US territory and other Caribbean islands in the region, leaving them exposed to new storms brewing in the Atlantic. Hide Caption 1 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean An aerial photo shows the devastation in Road Town, the capital of Tortola, the largest and most populated of the British Virgin Islands, on Wednesday, September 13. Hide Caption 2 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson talks to a resident of Anguilla during a visit on September 13. Hide Caption 3 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People collect food that was delivered by emergency workers in the Sandy Ground area of Marigot, St. Martin, on Tuesday, September 12. Hide Caption 4 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Buildings are destroyed in St. Martin on September 12. Hide Caption 5 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean French President Emmanuel Macron shakes hands with St. Martin residents during a visit to the island on September 12. Hide Caption 6 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean French soldiers patrol St. Martin on September 12. Hide Caption 7 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A person works to clean up a street September 12 after Hurricane Irma flooded parts of Havana, Cuba. Hide Caption 8 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man makes repairs in Havana on September 12. Hide Caption 9 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean This Marigot church was among the buildings destroyed in the storm. Hide Caption 10 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Cubans affected by Hurricane Irma line up to collect drinking water in Isabela de Sagua, Cuba, on Monday, September 11. Hide Caption 11 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Dutch King Willem-Alexander, front right, tours damage in St. Maarten on September 11. Hide Caption 12 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A palm tree sticks out of a pool on the French side of St. Martin on September 11. Hide Caption 13 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A woman stands next to her water-logged belongings that had been laid out to dry in front of her home in Isabela de Sagua on September 11. Hide Caption 14 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People line up for supplies in St. Martin on September 11. Hide Caption 15 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean The skeleton of a boat drifts in St. Martin's Simpson Bay on September 11. Hide Caption 16 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People salvage material from the remains of a house in Isabela de Sagua on September 11. Hide Caption 17 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Members of the British Army provide support on Tortola, one of the British Virgin Islands. Hide Caption 18 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A woman carries a dog at an airport checkpoint in St. Martin on September 11. Hide Caption 19 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People wade through a flooded street as a wave crashes in Havana on Sunday, September 10. Hide Caption 20 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Two men search through the rubble of their St. Martin restaurant on September 10. Hide Caption 21 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People make their way through debris in the Cojimar neighborhood of Havana on September 10. Hide Caption 22 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People board a plane leaving St. Martin on September 10. Hide Caption 23 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man wades through a flooded street in Havana on September 10. Hide Caption 24 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean An overview of Havana shows flooded streets on Saturday, September 9. Hide Caption 25 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A woman surveys flooding in Havana on September 9. Hide Caption 26 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A boat rests in a cemetery after Irma tore through Marigot, St. Martin. Hide Caption 27 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Residents return home after Irma passed through Caibarien, Cuba, on September 9. Hide Caption 28 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man walks in Caibarien on September 9. Hide Caption 29 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man carries a child through a flooded street in Fort-Liberte, Haiti, on Friday, September 8. Hide Caption 30 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man walks on a St. Martin street covered in debris on September 8. Hide Caption 31 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A damaged home is tilted onto its side on the Puerto Rican island of Culebra on Thursday, September 7. Hide Caption 32 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A home is surrounded by debris in Nagua, Dominican Republic, on September 7. Hide Caption 33 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Irma damage is seen in St. Martin's Orient Bay on September 7. Hide Caption 34 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Employees from an electrical company work to clear a fallen tree in Sanchez, Dominican Republic. Hide Caption 35 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A woman makes her way through debris in Fajardo, Puerto Rico, on September 7. Hide Caption 36 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean In this image made from video, damaged houses are seen in St. Thomas on September 7. Hide Caption 37 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean The storm left widespread destruction on the island of Barbuda on September 7. Hide Caption 38 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A flattened home is seen in Nagua, Dominican Republic, on September 7. Hide Caption 39 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Nagua residents ride through an area affected by the storm on September 7. Hide Caption 40 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Trash and debris is washed ashore in Cap-Haitien, Haiti, on September 7. Hide Caption 41 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People walk through damage in Marigot, St. Martin, on September 7. Hide Caption 42 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People survey damage in Marigot on September 7. Hide Caption 43 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Bluebeard's Castle, a resort in St. Thomas, was hit hard by Irma. St. Thomas resident David Velez sent this photo to CNN on September 7. Hide Caption 44 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Irma ruined these vehicles in St. Thomas. Hide Caption 45 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Waves smash into St. Martin on Wednesday, September 6. Hide Caption 46 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man looks at a vehicle turned upside down in the British territory of Anguilla. Hide Caption 47 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean An aerial view of St. Martin on September 6. Hide Caption 48 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Damaged cars are seen on a St. Martin beach on September 6. Hide Caption 49 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A boat is washed onto shore in St. Martin. Hide Caption 50 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Cars are piled up in Marigot on September 6. Hide Caption 51 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man walks past damaged buildings in St. Martin on September 6. Hide Caption 52 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A car is flipped onto its side in Marigot. Hide Caption 53 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Broken palm trees are scattered on a Marigot beach on September 6. Hide Caption 54 of 55 Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Irma floods a beach in Marigot on September 6. Hide Caption 55 of 55Meanwhile, the northeastern Caribbean islands just hit by Irma are anxiously watching Hurricane Jose to the east. On Thursday, Antigua and Barbuda issued a hurricane watch for Jose , which could pass close to those islands Saturday. Prime Minister Gaston Browne said the government has called for voluntary evacuations from Barbuda.Irma left at least 10 people dead Wednesday, including four on St. Martin, four in the US Virgin Islands, one on Anguilla, and one on Barbuda, officials said. The latter is barely habitable, with nearly all its buildings damaged, Browne said.Jose became the third major hurricane of the Atlantic basin season on Thursday, with winds of 120 mph, according to the National Hurricane Center. The Category 3 storm is about 625 miles east-southeast of Antigua.Here are the latest developments-- Around 8 p.m. ET, Irma's center was about 55 miles west-southwest of Grand Turk Island, moving west-northwest with maximum sustained winds of 175 mph. Hurricane-force winds could be felt as far as 70 miles from the center. Irma previously had winds over 180 mph, keeping those speeds longer than any storm ever recorded in the Atlantic basin.-- Irma could cross the southeastern Bahamas on Thursday evening and be near the central Bahamas on Friday.-- Hurricane warnings are in effect for parts of Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, the Turks and Caicos Islands, and the southeastern, central and northwestern Bahamas.-- A hurricane watch has been issued for Jupiter Inlet on Florida's east coast to Bonita Beach on the west coast. It includes the Florida Keys to Lake Okeechobee.-- Gov. Scott said Thursday he has directed Florida law enforcement to escort gas trucks to gas stations in an attempt to address reported fuel shortages. "We know fuel is very important" as people prepare to evacuate inland, he said. "While we're making progress, you will see lines and outages, unfortunately."An aerial view shows the damage that Hurricane Irma left on the Dutch side of the island of St. Martin.Southeastern US bracing for storm's arrivalSome computer models show Irma nearing Florida's southern and east coasts by Sunday, and potentially threatening Georgia and South Carolina later. Florida officials are ordering some evacuations and shutting down schools.Many Floridians spent Thursday stocking up on food or making plans to head inland. Video from CNN affiliate WSVN showed Miami International Airport crowded with people waiting to leave the area.Miami resident Ashley Hahn was at a beach Thursday with her 4-year-old daughter, saying they were taking a final few dips before fleeing the storm."It is chaotic with the lines and gasoline and waiting for water -- you kind of need a break," she said."We are probably going to head north, just to be safe. I went through (1992's Hurricane) Andrew as a child, and ... I have seen videos of destruction and everything that it entails. I don't want (my daughter) to be around for that."Monroe County administrator Roman Gastesi stressed to residents in the Keys they need to heed the evacuation order and leave."You might as well leave now, while you have a chance, because when you dial 911, you will not get an answer," he said.Florida is not the only state preparing for possible impact.Georgia's Gov. Deal declared a state of emergency for 30 counties. North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper and South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster also declared states of emergency.Turks and Caicos, Bahamas in Irma's pathIrma was bringing heavy rain and powerful winds to the low-lying Turks and Caicos Islands on Thursday. Residents were told to stay put."It's hunker down. Stay where you are. Because you can't go out, because the winds are just far, far too strong," Gov. John Freeman told CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360˚."The governor said the hospital on Grand Turk Island was among 15 buildings that had roof damage or loss.Storm surges could reach up to 20 feet, the National Hurricane Center says -- twice as high as some of the islands' elevations."Some of these Turks and Caicos (Islands) will be completely overwashed," CNN meteorologist Chad Myers said.The Turks and Caicos are a British overseas territory with about 35,000 people. Officials there are "working intensively on disaster preparedness and response ... (and) liaising with their counterparts in the Cayman Islands for assistance," UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office Minister Alan Duncan said Thursday.The Bahamas, a nation of about 390,000, ordered evacuations for six southern islands -- Mayaguana, Inagua, Crooked Island, Acklins, Long Cay and Ragged Island."This is the largest such evacuation in the history of the country," Prime Minister Hubert Minnis said.Capt. Stephen Russell of the Bahamas National Emergency Management Agency said the concern was over the power of the storm surge and the potential it will have catastrophic results.Trail of destructionIrma's eye passed directly over Barbuda on Wednesday, leaving the small island's 1,800 residents largely incommunicado for hours because it knocked over the telecommunications system and cell towers.About 95% of the buildings in Barbuda, one of two major islands in the nation of Antigua and Barbuda, are damaged, Browne said."It looks like (a) garbage disposal," Marlon Carr, a photographer who toured the island with the Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda, told CNN on Thursday. "There was rubble and roof galvanized all over the island. It looked like some of the houses ... were imploded on."JUST WATCHED Wrath of Hurricane Irma on the Caribbean Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wrath of Hurricane Irma on the Caribbean 01:34Witnesses told him of "40-foot containers flying, animals flying" during the storm. Some spoke of taking shelter in bathrooms as their homes were torn apart.Browne estimated the damage will cost $100 million to rebuild.In St. Thomas in the US Virgin Islands, Kelsey Nowakowski posted images to Instagram of the aftermath there.This doesn't look like it was ever a tropical paradise. It looks like an eerie fairytale forest. #hurricaneirma #usvirginislands #usvi A post shared by Kelsey Nowakowski (@kelseynowa) on Sep 6, 2017 at 6:15pm PDT"This doesn't look like it was ever a tropical paradise. It looks like an eerie fairytale forest," she said in her post.There are currently three hurricanes in the Atlantic. The last time this happened was 2010. https://t.co/ADbT14uPET pic.twitter.com/XRMpyzpDpG — CNN Weather Center (@CNNweather) September 6, 2017In Puerto Rico, about 56,680 customers were without water, with the island's northeast hit the hardest, according to Jesus Poupart of the emergency operations center. Emergency officials are still taking in reports to determine the extent of the damage.In the beachside area of Piñones near San Juan, Irma tore the roof off Cristian López's fried-food restaurant. He said he wouldn't be able to reopen the place for about five days."At least we are all alive," he said.Cristian López is upset about damages to his restaurant but says, "At least we are all alive". @cnn #hurricaneirma #puertorico pic.twitter.com/4hIX6bew9w — Khushbu Shah (@KhushbuOShea) September 7, 2017In the northeast city of Fajardo, authorities conducted at least 10 rescues, an emergency dispatcher there told CNN. Of those, five were from flooded homes, two of people trapped in vehicles, and three who were trapped in an elevator, the dispatcher said.This story has been updated to reflect a change in the death toll. The French government revised its count of the number of deaths attributed to Irma in the French Caribbean from eight to four.Are you affected by Irma? Text, iMessage or WhatsApp your videos, photos and stories to CNN: +1 347-322-0415.