Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Frank talk. Hard time. Fresh start. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Campaign 2016Yesterday was not a day for quiet introspection. It was a day to share how you really feel. Ex-House Speaker John Boehner said Ted Cruz was "Lucifer in the flesh" and a "miserable son of a [something that rhymes with witch]." Coaching legend Bobby Knight said Donald Trump would have the "guts" to drop a nuke , just like Harry Truman. Nice. Speaking of Trump, he campaigned last night in the L.A. area, drawing a yuge crowd ... and lots of protesters2. North KoreaA South Korean-born American citizen was sentenced by North Korea to 10 years hard labor, Chinese media reported this morning. Kim Dong Chul, accused by the North of subversion and espionage, is the second American sentenced there in the past two months. Back in March, college student Otto Frederick Warmbier got 15 years hard labor. His crime? He allegedly removed a political banner from a hotel.A photograph of what North Koreans say is a U.S. passport belonging to Kim Dong Chul.3. Sodomy lawsGet ready to be outraged. An Oklahoma court has upheld a ruling that oral sex isn't rape if the victim was drunk or unconscious . The case involves a 16-year-old girl who says she was assaulted in 2014. She was drunk; the accused attacker said the oral sex was consensual, but she had no memory of it. He was charged with forcible oral sodomy, but since unconsciousness and intoxication aren't mentioned in Oklahoma's forcible sodomy law, the charge was thrown out by a district court. And then, the state Court of Appeals agreed.4. Green BeretA Green Beret kicked out of the Army for taking a moral stand can stay in the service . Sgt. 1st Class Charles Martland was discharged after he beat up an Afghan police commander accused of repeatedly raping a little boy in 2011. Martland said he did it because higher-ups in the Army and local Afghan authorities weren't going to do anything about the attacks. The Pentagon has denied soldiers were told to look the other way. Last night the Army said Martland could stay.JUST WATCHED 2015: Green Beret discharged for beating alleged child rapist speaks out. Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2015: Green Beret discharged for beating alleged child rapist speaks out. 02:285. Gun violenceIt's shocking when we hear about it, but it happens more than you think: shootings caused by very young children . In the past week at least five kids have found and fired handguns, some with deadly consequences. The most unthinkable one happened Tuesday when a Milwaukee mom was shot and killed by her 2-year-old son when he found a gun that had slid out from under the driver's seat.JUST WATCHED Toddler shoots, kills driving woman Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Toddler shoots, kills driving woman 01:13BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Young jet setterWhen your baby is born on a plane run by Jetstar Airways, you kind of have to name him Saw Jet Star, right?Football folliesAttention future NFL stars: Make sure video of you smoking out of a bong doesn't post to social media until after you get picked in the draft.Grinning GipperFunnyman Will Ferrell, known for his sometimes raunchy humor, is going to be Ronald Reagan in a new comedy . Conservative America is not amused.Bailing out the boys in blueWhat happens when the fire department has to rescue a bunch of cops stuck in an elevator? They take pictures and gloat about it, of course.Today in facepalmA woman crashes a car while using Snapchat's "speed filter," injuring her husband. So of course they sue Snapchat, cause it's social media's fault, right?Number of the day60%