Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A Brooklyn brawl. A Pyongyang fail. A galactic feast. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Democratic debateNow that was a debate! Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders both consider New York home turf. So they said fuhgeddaboudit to the niceness and tried to rip each other to shreds , while a rowdy crowd cheered and hissed. Uncle Bernie said he doubts Hillz has the right stuff for the job (the credibility argument). She said he's unyielding in his pie-in-the-sky proposals (the pragmatism argument). Missed the battle in the Big Apple? Here's a reality check on what they said, here's six takeaways and here's the whole thing in GIFs2. North KoreaCue the sad trombone . North Korea tried to fire a missile off of its eastern coast early this morning. FAIL! It might have been an intermediate-range missile, but South Korea's military is still checking that out. Oh, and the test happened on the Day of the Sun, the birthday of North Korea's founder. Some birthday gift.3. Japan earthquakeSearch crews are out digging through the rubble of collapsed buildings after a massive quake hit Japan's Kyushu island yesterday. It killed at least nine people and triggered landslides, ripped up roads and even derailed a bullet train. And the worst isn't over. "This is an earthquake that is going to shake for a long time," says our meteorologist Chad Myers. Which could mean more building collapses. Japan sits along the Ring of Fire and so, is no stranger to calamitous quakesJUST WATCHED Dozens of aftershocks rock southern Japan Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dozens of aftershocks rock southern Japan 01:574. Manson killingsYou know what they say about If at first, you don't succeed...The 19th try might be the one for Leslie Van Houten, who's a step closer to freedom after a California parole board panel said she should be released . Van Houten was a follower of killer Charles Manson and was convicted of murdering supermarket exec Leno Labianca and his wife in 1969 with other members of the cult. But the release isn't a done deal. The full Board of Parole Hearings has to sign off on it. So does Gov. Jerry Brown.JUST WATCHED 1994: Leslie Van Houten talks about LaBianca murders Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 1994: Leslie Van Houten talks about LaBianca murders 02:035. Live-streamed attackThere's no end to people's depravity, is there. A woman in Ohio's been charged with live-streaming the rape of a friend . Cops say Marina Alexeevna Lonina used Periscope to webcast while a man raped her friend. Lonin will be arraigned later today. It's another headache for Twitter, which owns Periscope and has had issues with online harassment in the past.JUST WATCHED Ohio woman accused of live-streaming rape on Periscope Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ohio woman accused of live-streaming rape on Periscope 01:00BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:"When you tell a 22-year-old to 'turn off the phone, don't ruin the movie,' they hear 'please cut off your left arm above the elbow'"Adam Aron, CEO of AMC Entertainment, entertaining the possibility of phone-friendly movie theaters for millennials . Yes, really.Perks of the officeThe President gets to see the 6th season of "Game of Thrones" way before us plebs because, as the producer put it , "when the commander in chief says, 'I want to see advanced episodes' -- what are ya gonna do?"Celestial cannibalsYou can't see it without a high-powered telescope but in the middle of the three bright blobs is one hungry galaxy getting fat swallowing smaller ones.A bit much, no?What are you wearing?Ambergris is a rare substance used to make perfumes last longer on the skin. People call it "whale vomit" but they shouldn't. It's more like whale poop.Czech this out