Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A heartbreaking video, a heartsome win and a heartburn for the GOP. It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .NIGERIA ABDUCTED GIRLSHeartbreaking. There's no other word to describe watching parents of the missing Chibok school girls view a "proof of life" video of their kidnapped children. It's the first time in almost two years anyone in the outside world has seen the girls abducted. The video seems to have been shot around Christmas, but the government hadn't bothered to show it to the parents. So, CNN did. If you haven't read this incredible piece by CNN's Stephanie Busari, Nima Elbagir and Sebastiaan Knoops, please doCAMPAIGN 2016The Donald: The system is rigged against me!The RNC: Um, no.We'll probably have to deal with this back-and-forth all the way to the GOP convention, as Donald Trump and RNC chair Reince Priebus fight over delegate rules . Trump's afraid Ted Cruz may have exploited party rules to get enough delegates to grab the nomination. Priebus is worried Trump will launch a third-party run and pretty much gift wrap the presidency for Hillary Clinton.JUST WATCHED Reince Priebus responds to Donald Trump's attacks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Reince Priebus responds to Donald Trump's attacks 02:26ETHAN COUCH"Affluenza" teen Ethan Couch is going to jail for two years . Well, maybe. A Texas judge is going to let his lawyers mull it over for a couple of weeks. "Nothing is set in stone, so I might reconsider," the judge said. Does this kid get all the breaks or what? If you remember, Couch got only probation in a drunk driving crash that killed four people, partly because his lawyers said he was too rich and spoiled -- affluenza! -- to grasp the consequences of his actions. And let's not forgot his little jaunt to Mexico when he was told he needed to stay put.CHICAGO POLICEChicago got a new temporary top cop yesterday. And boy, does Eddie Johnson have his work cut out for him . Consider that a mayoral task force, in a new report, scorches the department, saying it has "no regard for the sanctity of life" when those lives are black or brown. During the last eight years, 74% of people killed or injured by Chicago cops were African-American. And now Johnson has to steer the department through yet another deadly police shooting of a black teen -- this one Monday night.JUST WATCHED 16-year-old fatally shot by Chicago police Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 16-year-old fatally shot by Chicago police 02:00NBAThe Warriors in Oakland and the Lakers in L.A. both made history last night. Golden State staked its claim as best NBA team ever by setting the record for most regular season wins in a season -- 73. That topped the old record, set by the 1995-96 Michael Jordan-led Chicago Bulls. Meanwhile, the Lakers' Kobe Bryant said goodbye to the NBA in legendary fashion, scoring 60 in a come-from-behind win. Mamba out!JUST WATCHED Kobe Bryant exits NBA with style Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kobe Bryant exits NBA with style 01:07BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Can you hear me now?Some 36,000 Verizon workers walked off their jobs -- the largest strike in the U.S. since ... some 45,000 Verizon workers walked off their jobs in 2011.Crack is snackA loo with a viewIf part of your vacation planning includes knowing where the best bathrooms are, Lonely Planet's new handy, dandy toilets guide is for you.Embracing changeA social media campaign hopes to convince Brits to stay in the EU - with hugs. The only problem? Brits aren't the most touchy-feely typesWhat lurks beneathThe Loch Ness Monster has been found! Well, kind of. A drone searching Loch Ness found a sunken replica of Nessie created years ago for a movie.Number of the day$136 millionThe estimated worth of a 400-year-old Caravaggio that a French family discovered in their attic while trying to fix a leaky roofAND FINALLY ...Just lion aroundWildlife rules in the Galapagos Islands, so that must be why these sea lions are lounging around in lawn chairs like they own the place.