Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Goodbye to a Prince. Hello to a (general) election. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. PrinceThe words genius and icon are thrown around way too often. But they're the only ones you use to describe the decade-defining, label-defying Prince. The Purple One died yesterday , sparking an outpouring of grief felt the world over. Fans gathered at his Paisley Park complex near Minneapolis, celebs tweeted their condolences, landmarks across the nation were bathed in purple , even President Obama noted his passing. It was unclear what caused his death, but an autopsy is scheduled for today. Here's a recap of his last days2. Campaign 20163. FBI-AppleSo how much did it cost the FBI to break into the iPhone of terrorist Syed Farook? FBI Director James Comey didn't give an exact figure, but strongly hinted that it was somewhere north of a million dollars. That money secured a "tool" from a private company that was used to access the phone. Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, killed 14 people in December in an ISIS-inspired attack in San Bernandino, California.JUST WATCHED How did FBI get hackers to access terrorist's iPhone? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How did FBI get hackers to access terrorist's iPhone? 01:544. Rio OlympicsRio's Olympic organizers must be numb, as the headlines in advance of the Games are less than ideal: The country's president has been impeached. The Zika virus is scaring the hell out of everyone. Now part of a new seaside bike path -- the result of an effort to spruce up Rio's image before the Games -- has collapsed, killing two people . It raises new fears that Rio won't be able to successfully put the Games on.JUST WATCHED 2 killed in Rio bike path collapse Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2 killed in Rio bike path collapse 00:475. Fatal high school fightOnce upon a time, parents actually felt their children were safe in school. Two decades of school shootings have shattered that feeling, but people still expressed shock at the death yesterday of a 16-year-old girl during a fight in a high school bathroom . Authorities in Wilmington, Delaware, said the fight started with two people but others soon joined in. No charges have been filed yet, but two students have been questioned.JUST WATCHED Student dies after fight at Delaware high school Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Student dies after fight at Delaware high school 01:17BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.The spy who loved meChinese government workers are being warned not to date foreigners, because that alluring guy or gal just might be James Bond or something.Can't touch thisMajor League Baseball has its first no-hitter of the season , tossed by Chicago Cubs ace Jake Arrieta.Bed headStruggle to fall asleep in a strange place? Blame your brain . New study says parts of it stays awake, cause it's still assessing if the new place is safe.Joining forcesYes "NCIS" fans are bracing themselves for the impending loss of Tony DiNozzo, but they'll gain Michelle Obama , at least for one episode.The sky is(n't) fallingIt's Earth Day, and most of the news on the climate front is bad, but we're not as doomed as you thinkNumber of the dayBurj Al Arab royal suite$20,000