(CNN) Boy, that didn't go well, to hear social media tell it.Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder, in what was billed as a move to establish solidarity with the people of Flint, said Monday he would visit a home with lead service lines whose unfiltered water had tested higher than the national action level and collect said water.Channeling a souped-up version of ex-Flint Mayor Dayne Walling , Snyder promised to drink and cook with the water for a month, returning to Flint every week for an, ahem, fresh supply of the wet stuff.Experts, he said, have concluded the water is now safe to drink with a filter, and "I am hopeful I can alleviate some of the skepticism and mistrust by putting words to action," Snyder said in a statement, which added that Flint residents had made the request of the governor.JUST WATCHED Congressman slams governor over Flint water crisis Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Congressman slams governor over Flint water crisis 01:49Before we get to the none-too-kind backlash (which actually presents an interesting case study in the The Art of Sarcasm in 140 Characters), let's recap the situation in Flint:Officials in 2014 decided to use water from the Flint River, which ate into the city's iron and lead pipes, causing lead to leach into the drinking water. The city switched back to Lake Huron water, but not before residents reported a litany of health problems, outlined in a class-action lawsuit: skin lesions, hair loss, vision loss, memory loss, depression and anxiety. That's not to mention concerns about Legionnaire's disease , imminent learning disabilities in developing children and a state investigation into miscarriages in Flint.So, with that in mind, perhaps it isn't shocking that the overwhelming majority of responses to the governor's initiative fell into eight categories:You should be imprisoned.@onetoughnerd Stop tweeting about water and start healing your constituents, evil man #LockHimUp — Matthew Corbett (@mcorbett325) April 19, 2016While there was a smattering of thanks and attaboys, Snyder woke up Tuesday to a salty wave of vitriol in his Twitter and Facebook accounts. Said Letitia Smith-Sweet on Facebook : "He should be drinking prison water and food." It was a common theme.@onetoughnerd @MLive I hope you really go to prison. You make me embarrassed to live in Mi — coleslaw jaguar (@TBSP933) April 19, 2016@onetoughnerd @MLive filtered? Enjoy. They ain't serving you filtered water in the clink son. — damienredican (@damienredicamn1) April 19, 2016Why don't you resign?@onetoughnerd delete your account. Resign. Spend less time with your kids. — Graham is Alive (@GrahamPGallaghe) April 18, 2016@onetoughnerd An important tip to remember is to not trust you. You should resign. — gregory (@scabworth) April 19, 2016A person going by the Facebook handle, What Fricken Ever (which, while representative of many residents' sentiments, is doubtless a sobriquet), wrote, "You are not credible. Pathetic. The only good thing you can do for Flint is RESIGN." Added Facebook user Joel Robert : "It would help move #FlintFWD if you resigned. #ArrestGovSnyder"@onetoughnerd @MLive maybe if they gave u an unfiltered Flint water enema every day on @PBS the people of Michigan will forgive you #Resign — Dan K (@ZombieEyeDK) April 19, 2016@onetoughnerd @MLiveI live in Michigan. Your party, your policies, and you, generally as a person, terrify me. Please resign now. — Lisa Noel (@LisaNoelMc) April 19, 2016Oh, NOW you want to drink the water@onetoughnerd No way you do that a year ago when you were poisoning the people of Flint. #FlintWaterCrisis — Chris Nelson (@cnelson65) April 18, 2016@onetoughnerd what about the unfiltered water your made them drink for more than a year — Will Tripp (@tranceobs) April 19, 2016As noted, the state already replaced the corrosive Flint River water with water from Lake Huron, and while things are better than they were when ex-Mayor Walling drank the water to convince residents it was safe (a move he now says he regrets ), they're far from perfect. Many folks wonder aloud if Snyder would've touched the stuff when it had high levels of lead and other contaminants coursing through it.@onetoughnerd @MLive oh wow. 30 days with filtered water knowingly drinking the water. So relatable to what the people of Flint have endured — Hannah (@hannahsdaydream) April 19, 2016@onetoughnerd now cook all your food with it and bathe in it unknowingly for months. #ResignSnyder — Smalls (@rbeksmalls) April 19, 2016Uh-huh, let's see you give it to your family@onetoughnerd @MLive great to see this! Forgive me if I ask for impartial third-party verification. Also, your grandkids gotta drink it. — Cadence Cellardoor (@cobaltskky) April 18, 2016@onetoughnerd Give it to your children and grandchildren. How about that? — Throw Up & Theology (@RevLaurelJ) April 19, 2016When Brett Bilak wrote on Facebook , "Hope you drink the water and take a gallon home to your family. You know, show off your handiwork," it sounded harsh. Leave the family out of it, right? Well, the more you read -- and disregard the unequivocally hateful posts that actually wish harm on Snyder's family -- you see it's a matter of not believing Snyder. It's more like, "You think that water's safe? Prove it."@onetoughnerd not the kids? (none of you should. solves nothing. work on the problem.) — Rey (@vedhed21) April 19, 2016Move to Flint, guv@onetoughnerd nothing stopping you from moving to Flint until this crisis is over or you resign — Richard Lawler (@rjcc) April 18, 2016Many have pointed out that drinking and cooking with the tap water is hardly representative of what Flint residents have endured. Why not bathe in it? Brush your teeth with it? Or clean open wounds? Better yet, some residents feel, why don't you move an hour west to Flint and live, breathe -- and yes, drink -- what the folks there are experiencing?@onetoughnerd drinking it once and drinking it everyday is different... move to flint — Canadian dream (@melovecanadian) April 18, 2016@onetoughnerd I have a better idea: go live and work in Flint on their average wage for 30 days. And drink their water. — J Burch (@JBurch1971) April 19, 2016I dare you to come drink MY home's water@onetoughnerd Come on over and shower in my water!! https://t.co/Bfrx6r8JCJ — Flint Gate (@FlintGate) April 18, 2016.@onetoughnerd congratulations. i'm sure others would love to have you over to taste their water. #FlintWaterCrisis — rick ayala (@rickxx2000) April 18, 2016There is a sense among some that there's a conspiracy at play, if you haven't figured that out from the other categories. This has resulted in invitations for the governor to visit various homes in the city of 100,000. On Facebook, Melissa Mays offered several places Snyder could go (stop; don't go there), including to homes that have tested high in lead or "play Russian roulette and pick a home. .... Also, while you're in Flint, you should shower in my chemical-filled water."@onetoughnerd Are you kidding me!? Good for your people in finding the 1 resident in Flint to "drink tap" with. You are a stomach turner! — Neige Canadien (@neigecanadien) April 19, 2016@onetoughnerd @MLive Cute Stunt! Now go and bath in their tubs and see if you don't get the same illnesses as many of your residents. — Mark Ruffalo (@MarkRuffalo) April 19, 2016I double-dog dare you to go to a poor part of town@onetoughnerd nice try Rick. You pick a rich white lady for this publicity stunt? You're not convincing anyone. — Secret Activator (@SecretActivator) April 19, 2016@onetoughnerd Did you go to more than one household? A variety of households, a minorities house? #FlintWaterCrisis #flint — Elaine K C (@kocisue9) April 19, 2016There were also invitations to visit the impoverished neighborhoods of Flint, which to be sure, cover many parts of town. According to federal statistics, unemployment is higher than 10%, the median household income is less than $25,000 and almost 42% of folks live below the poverty line. Demanded Ron Maxson on Facebook , "How about you collect water from the poorest sections of Flint, and use some of the money you've magically appropriated to pay someone to accompany you and ensure that you, and your family, drink nothing but Flint water?"This is just a PR stunt@onetoughnerd I watched your first meeting in Flint when you and your boys were outlining the damage control and this is just a stunt — #ItsJustFlint (@C1TYofFL1NT) April 18, 2016@onetoughnerd I'll bet you were way pissed when the PR firm proposed this circus act — Stanleyville (@stashu57yahoo) April 18, 2016It's no secret that in January, Snyder hired a global, out-of-state public relations firm ( with strong ties to his chief of staff, no less) that counts crisis management among its capabilities. Thus, it isn't terribly surprising that many observers feel as though his latest initiative is the product of skilled spin doctors.@onetoughnerd Publicity stunt. You need to go to the older homes where there is actually a problem. — Prd2bnAmerican (@Prd2bnAmerican) April 19, 2016.@onetoughnerd. You really drink Flint water? Really? In view of everyone? Everyday? or just at home - wink! wink! — Beth Najberg (@Grndma211) April 18, 2016