Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Some wins, some losses and a resignation. It's Wednesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .CAMPAIGN 2016Seems like we say this every primary night (but this time we mean it!): the races for the GOP and Democratic nominations have been reset . Ted Cruz's big win in Wisconsin last night probably keeps Donald Trump from clinching the nomination , which means a contested convention this summer in Cleveland. And that, says political analyst David Gergen, makes Cruz -- not The Donald -- the odds-on favorite to be the GOP standard-bearer this fall.Bernie Sanders, despite his Wisconsin win , probably won't catch up to Hillary Clinton in the delegate haul , but his momentum and prolific fundraising means he can make her sweat this thing out all the way through the California primary in June. And he'll be a force at the Dems convention that she'll have to deal with. Here's the Wisconsin results in just 90 secondsPANAMA PAPERSlceland's Prime Minister is the first casualty of the release of the Panama Papers; Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson resigned yesterday . Will there be others? Probably. That's because this leak of 11 million documents mentions 12 current or ex heads of state and goes back four decades. That is, as they say, a target-rich environment. The papers, according to an international group of investigative journalists, are connected to a Panama law firm that allegedly set up secret shell companies and offshore accounts to help shield the rich and the powerful from tax burdens. Here's who else could be affectedJUST WATCHED Icelandic PM resigns Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Icelandic PM resigns 03:05RELIGIOUS FREEDOMMississippi jumped into the religious freedom debate with both feet yesterday, as Gov. Phil Bryant signed that state's version of a religious freedom bill. You know the drill: supporters say it protects the religious beliefs of people and organizations; opponents call it plain, old discrimination. Many businesses have denounced it. Meanwhile North Carolina's "bathroom bill" -- which says students must use the bathroom that corresponds with the gender they were born with -- caused PayPal to cancel plans to open a new operations center in Charlotte . Bye, bye 400 jobs.JUST WATCHED What is a religious freedom bill? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is a religious freedom bill? 01:02VISA FRAUD STINGThe feds found a novel way to combat a visa fraud scam -- a fake university. Federal agents created the University of Northern New Jersey to catch brokers who recruited foreign students to "enroll" in the school and, through fake transcripts and diplomas, illegally extend their student visas. Twenty-one people were arrested yesterday. The feds went all out to make the school seem real: a website and Facebook page were all part of the ploy. Still want to join Northern New Jersey's student body? You're out of luck: the website and Facebook page were taken down yesterday.JUST WATCHED Fake university used to catch student visa scammers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fake university used to catch student visa scammers 01:50NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIPFour in a row. 38-0. 11 for 11. Those are the only numbers you need to remember from last night's women's final, as No. 1 UConn won yet another national title. Just how dominating are the Huskies? Let's review: 11th national title, fourth title in a row, undefeated season (38-0), 75-game winning streak. Head coach Geno Auriemma is 11 for 11 in title games, giving him more championships than legendary UCLA men's basketball coach John Wooden. Some say all this winning by one team is bad for the game, but CNN's Jill Martin calls that line of thought ridiculous.JUST WATCHED Fans react to UConn's 4th consecutive NCAA championship Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fans react to UConn's 4th consecutive NCAA championship 00:48BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:"This was a big one"Lee Lightsey, with the understatement of the year, talking about the Hunter, with the understatement of the year, talking about the 780-pound alligator he helped catch over the weekend.Acronym anarchyGeorge Mason University's Antonin Scalia School of Law, or ASSoL, had to be renamed the Antonin Scalia Law School, for obvious reasons.Cry me a riverShark taleSomething in the water?For the second year in a row, a student at Elmont Memorial High School on Long Island gets accepted to all eight Ivy League schoolsKeeping up with ... well, you knowLooks like we're going to be treated/exposed/subjected to another Kardashian wedding. But this time it's brother Rob who's tying the knot (to Blac Chyna).AND FINALLY ...Puppy powerCuteness alert! Puppies waltz into a room of unsuspecting humans and unleash smiles, giggles and grins. (Click to view)