For more stories, video and live game feeds from the NCAA men's basketball semifinals and finals go to cnn.com/marchmadness .(CNN) The NCAA men's Final Four is set, and it's anyone's guess who will leave the NRG Stadium in Houston as the national champion.West Region No. 2-seed Oklahoma and South No. 2-seed Villanova will get things started on Saturday at 6:09 pm ET, while East Region No. 1 North Carolina tips off against Midwest No. 10 Syracuse approximately 40 minutes after the Sooners-Wildcats game ends. The winners of those two games will go at each other in the championship game on Monday.So who are the stars for each team left in March-soon-to-be-April Madness? Here's a guide of the best players from all four teams:Oklahoma: Buddy HieldBuddy Hield scored 37 points -- including hitting eight three-point shots -- in No. 2 Oklahoma's 80-68 win against No. 1 Oregon on Saturday.This one is easy. "Buddy Buckets" had a brilliant performance on Saturday, exploding for 37 points, including sinking eight 3-point shots, to lead Oklahoma to a 80-68 blowout win against West Region No. 1-seed Oregon to advance to the Final Four -- the Sooners' first since 2002.For more stories, video and live game feeds from the men's semifinals and finals go to cnn.com/marchmadnessHield is lethal from deep, shooting 47% from three-point range this season, a year in which he's the finalist for the James A. Naismith Trophy, recognizing the most outstanding men's college basketball player. Of those eight 3-pointers he hit Saturday, one was more memorable than the others. Right before the end of the first half, Hield drilled a three, giving the Sooners an ultimately insurmountable 48-30 lead, and he locked eyes with Kobe Bryant, who was in attendance."Yeah, that was my favorite shot, because after that I looked at Kobe, and he saluted me afterward," Hield said.There aren't enough adjectives to describe Hield, so instead the stat line will have to do. Hield's point totals in this year's NCAA tournament games: 27, 36, 17 and 37. He is the player to watch in Houston.Villanova: The power of fiveVillanova forward Kris Jenkins celebrates with teammate Josh Hart after defeating Kansas in the South Regional Final of the NCAA tournament on Saturday.For the Wildcats, the "power of five" mentality applies. Not one player is head-and-shoulders the best on this team.Case in point: In Villanova's 64-59 win Saturday in the NCAA South Region Final against No. 1 Kansas, four players stepped up: senior guard Ryan Arcidiacono, junior forward Kris Jenkins and junior guard Josh Hart all had 13 points, while senior forward Daniel Ochefu had 10 points and eight rebounds.For what it's worth, Jenkins was named the South Region Most Outstanding Player. But really, Villanova's players are, at least when compared to Oklahoma's Hield, relatively anonymous.When you think of Villanova, think "team first.""It's the greatest feeling in the world to see these guys get to that point where everyone else sees that they're as good as we see they can be," Villanova head coach Jay Wright said.North Carolina: Brice JohnsonBrice Johnson leads the No. 1 North Carolina Tar Heels in scoring with 17.1 points per game.For the Tar Heels, the player to watch is senior forward Brice Johnson. In UNC's 88-74 win against No. 6 Notre Dame in the East Region Final on Sunday, Johnson led the way with 25 points and 12 rebounds. Johnson has averaged a double-double this season, with 17.1 points and 10.5 rebounds per game.This will be a senior-dominated Final Four. In recent years, the one-and-done freshmen have been the story lines. Not so this year. Johnson is one of many upperclassmen this season who have been instrumental in leading their teams through the NCAA tournament (though it should be noted that he also had help from fellow senior Marcus Paige, who averages 12 points per game).Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2016: No. 10 Syracuse – Despite going 1-5 in its final six games before the NCAA tournament, No. 10 seed Syracuse reached this year's Final Four with a 68-62 win against No. 1 Virginia. With 13 losses this season and in danger of missing the tournament altogether as a bubble team, the Orange join a group of other improbable Final Four teams in this year's college basketball tournament. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 1983: No. 6 NC State – NC State basically had to win the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament to ensure a bid at the 1983 men's NCAA tournament, in which the Wolfpack was given a No. 6 seed. From there, NC State, coached by the late Jim Valvano, got a historic upset against a Ralph-Sampson-led No. 1 Virginia team to reach the Final Four and went on to win the national title 54-52 over No. 1 Houston with a buzzer-beating dunk by Lorenzo Charles. The everlasting image seared in fans' minds is Valvano running around trying to find someone to hug. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 1985: No. 8 Villanova – In the first year that the NCAA tournament expanded to 64 teams, No. 8 seed Villanova, led by Most Outstanding Player Ed Pinckney (center), emerged as the unlikely champion, defeating No. 1 Georgetown 66-64 in the title game, one of the biggest upsets in U.S. sports history. The Wildcats reached the Final Four with a win against No. 2 North Carolina and then defeated No. 2 Memphis to reach the national championship game. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 1986: No. 11 LSU – LSU, led by head coach Dale Brown, became the first 11 seed to reach the Final Four with a 59-57 win against No. 1 Kentucky. The Tigers lost in the national semifinals to the eventual champion, No. 2 Louisville. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 1988: No. 6 Kansas – Kansas is seen as a perennial powerhouse these days, but back in 1988, the No. 6 Jayhawks, led by Danny Manning (center), had lost 11 games and weren't ranked entering the NCAA tournament. The team, nicknamed "Danny and the Miracles," defeated No. 4 Kansas State to reach the Final Four and then went on to beat No. 2 Duke and then No. 1 Oklahoma to win the title. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2000: No. 8 Wisconsin – While neither team reached the championship game, No. 8 North Carolina and No. 8 Wisconsin still surprised many by advancing to the Final Four in Indianapolis. Mark Vershaw and Mike Kelley celebrated on the court after Wisconsin beat No. 6 Purdue 64-60 at the West Regional Championship at The Pit in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2000: No. 8 North Carolina – Kris Lang waved to the crowd after he cut a piece of the net after UNC defeated Tulsa 59-55 at the NCAA South Regional at the Frank Erwin Center in Austin, Texas. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2006: No. 11 George Mason – This is a Cinderella story for the ages. No. 11 George Mason, a mid-major program in the Colonial Athletic Association, earned an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament, receiving criticism from TV analyst Billy Packer. George Mason became the first CAA team to reach the Final Four with an 86-84 overtime win against No.1 UConn. Seen here, Will Thomas celebrated after scoring a basket in that game; Thomas finished with 19 points. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2010: No. 5 Butler – Cinderella almost pulled off the unthinkable. No. 5 Butler, from the mid-major Horizon League, reached the Final Four with a win against No. 2 Kansas State. The Bulldogs then defeated No. 5 Michigan State to advance to the national championship game. In the final against No. 1 Duke, Butler came up agonizingly short, as Gordon Hayward threw a prayer from half court at the buzzer. The ball almost went in, bouncing off the backboard and then the rim, and Duke escaped, 61-59. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2011: No. 11 VCU – No. 11 Virginia Commonwealth University, led by second-year head coach Shaka Smart, became the first team to advance to the Final Four who started the tournament in The First Four, the opening round in which four teams advanced to the round of 64. To get there, VCU took down No. 1 Kansas, 71-61. VCU went on to lose to last season's Cinderella, No. 8 Butler, in the Final Four. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2014: No. 7 UConn – In 2013, UConn was academically ineligible for the postseason. In 2014, No. 7 UConn defeated No. 8 Kentucky 60-54 in the national championship game. It was the highest combined seeding (No. 7 vs. No. 8) in championship game history. Additionally, UConn, led by Shabazz Napier, was the first 7 seed to reach and win the title game. Hide Caption 11 of 11On Sunday after the win against Notre Dame, head coach Roy Williams said it was good for Johnson to "hang around and get better" instead of leaving early to turn professional."He's one of the best 25 players in college basketball right now," Williams said.Syracuse: Rotating castSyracuse freshman guard Malachi Richardson led the way with 23 points and seven rebounds in Sunday's win against No. 1 Virginia. He was voted the Midwest Region Most Outstanding Player.Like Villanova, the Orange is all about a team effort.In Syrcause's improbable comeback to upset against No. 1 Virginia in the Midwest Region, freshman guard Malachi Richardson led the way with 23 points and seven rebounds. He was voted the Midwest Region Most Outstanding Player.But it's a group of players that carries the Orange. Senior forward Michael Gbinije leads the team in scoring this season. He chipped in 11 points and six assists in Sunday's win against the Cavaliers. Freshman forward Tyler Lydon scored 11 points off the bench, while junior forward Tyler Roberson added 10 points and eight rebounds.Another notable player in Syracuse's starting lineup is senior guard Trevor Cooney. He had eight points Sunday and is third on the team in scoring this season with 12.7 points per game."We've been great teammates to one another, through all the highs and lows," Gbinije said. "I think it's finally starting to pay off. We've got great chemistry on and off the court, and I think that's what it's all about."