Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Questions in New Orleans. Revelations in Paris. Demonstrations in D.C. It's Tuesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Will Smith deathFormer NFL player Will Smith and murder suspect Cardell Hayes didn't know each other before a weekend traffic accident turned fatal. That's what Hayes' lawyer says, as authorities try to sort out the events that led to death of the former New Orleans Saints defensive end. Hayes is accused of shooting Smith to death. But Hayes' lawyer said his client wasn't the aggressor after the two argued -- and suggested someone else at the scene may have been armed.2. Terror attacksThe more we learn about the terror cell behind the Paris and Brussels attacks, the scarier it gets. Captured terror suspect Mohamed Abrini -- the "man in the hat" in the Brussels airport attack -- told investigators the cell wanted to hit the Euro 2016 soccer championships in France. But they were spooked and changed plans. A confiscated computer indicates the terrorists were also considering a major shopping mall in Paris and a Catholic association as potential targets.3. Campaign 2016Springtime in Washington means cherry blossoms. Oh, and also mass arrests. At least that's what happened yesterday at the U.S. Capitol, where more than 400 protesters were arrested after staging a massive sit-in to protest money in politics and Congress' seeming inability to do something about it. It's all part of "Democracy Spring," a week of planned protests by various groups focused on the nation's campaign finance system and voting laws.JUST WATCHED Capitol Hill protesters stage sit-in Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Capitol Hill protesters stage sit-in 00:454. Attawapiskat suicide attemptsAn indigenous community in a Canadian province has issued a state of emergency after more than 100 members, young and old, have tried to commit suicide in the last eight months. Eleven people tried to kill themselves on Saturday alone in Attawapiskat, a town in far north Ontario. Many First Nation communities are dealing with depression, unemployment and drug abuse. The Assembly of First Nations, an organization representing indigenous people in Canada, calls the crisis a "a national shame."JUST WATCHED Rural Ontario: Suicide spate prompts state of emergency Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rural Ontario: Suicide spate prompts state of emergency 02:155. Equal Pay DayToday is Equal Pay Day , but it's an occasion we'd rather not celebrate. April 12 is when, if you're the average-income woman, your earnings for this year -- tacked onto last year's -- finally catch up with what men made the previous year. There's some good news: The gap is getting smaller. In 1964 women made 59% of what men were paid. By 2014, that number is up to 79%. The bad news: At this rate, women won't achieve pay equity until 2059!Breakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Space scareThe Kepler spacecraft is working normally again after giving everyone a scare for a few days. Now it can get back to its habitable planet search.It's not a competitionOnly having sex once a week? A recent study suggests you're probably just as happy as couples who get it on four times -- four times? -- a week.Take one of theseWant to prevent colon cancer or cardiovascular disease? Taking an aspirin every day just might do the trick, a U.S. health task force said yesterday.Book banishmentMaybe this list of last year's most frequently challenged books will give you a couple of ideas for beach reads this summer.What's for lunchHere's what's coming up later.More town hall, pleaseThe second CNN town hall with GOP candidates and their families features Donald Trump and his family starting tonight at 9 ET.3,890The number of tigers out in the wild. For the first time in about a century, their numbers are on the rise.And finally ...That's what brothers are forLittle sister is high on medication after a dental visit -- the perfect time for her brothers to convince her that zombies have attacked their town.