Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Picking a mate. Paying the price. Putting up a fence. It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Campaign 2016Ted Cruz introduced Carly Fiorina as his running mate yesterday, which is news since he's A) not the GOP nominee and B) has zero chance of getting enough delegates to be the nominee. But since there's a chance he could grab the nom on a second ballot at a contested convention this summer, Cruz is pulling out all the stops. And how did Fiorina begin her big moment? By singing a lullaby . Interesting! Want more politics? Then download the brand spanking new CNN Politics app , a daily dose of data and insight that launches today.2. Robert BatesRobert Bates said it was a horrible accident. On the day the volunteer reserve sheriff's deputy shot and killed Eric Courtney Harris, Bates grabbed his gun when he meant to grab his Taser. The jury didn't buy it. Bates, 74, was found guilty of second-degree manslaughter yesterday.He'll be sentenced later. After the verdict, Bates was taken from the courtroom by two deputies from the department he once served.3. Charles MansonWas Charles Manson and his "family" responsible for an additional killing? Turns out late last year two L.A. detectives talked to Manson in prison about a cold case -- the savage stabbing death of a Jane Doe in 1969. The woman has now been ID'd as 19-year-old Reet Jurvetson. Investigators said Manson -- serving a life sentence for several murders -- didn't tell cops anything useful. Jurvetson, who was stabbed more than 150 times, was found just a few miles from where some of the Manson family murders occurred.JUST WATCHED Charles Manson and the Manson Family murders Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Charles Manson and the Manson Family murders 01:524. White House fenceThe Secret Service says enough already. The agency wants to raise the fence around the White House , since everyone and their momma has jumped it lately . The redesigned fence would be 11' 7" inches tall and include "anti-climb features" and "intrusion detection" tech. (Lasers? A moat? Terminators?) The Secret Service wants to have this green-lit by 2018 but is waiting on the National Planning Commission for approval. Of course D.C. bureaucracy would gum up the works.JUST WATCHED 2015: White House jumper charged with 'unlawful entry' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2015: White House jumper charged with 'unlawful entry' 01:205. PrinceA lot happened on the Prince front yesterday. A source told CNN opioids were found on Prince and in his home, so the DEA's been called in to help with the case. Opioids are pills commonly used to treat pain. Prince reportedly suffered from hip pain. Meanwhile, a special administrator has been appointed to manage the singer's finances, and boy there's a lot to manage. Since the Purple One apparently didn't have a will, the administrator will have to determine heirs for his $300 million estate.JUST WATCHED Source: Prince had opioid medication on him Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Source: Prince had opioid medication on him 01:02BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Public dancerAt a Bruce Springsteen concert, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie dances, shimmies and two-steps likes nobody's watching, even though we were.Watch your step, not your phoneCan't put that phone away while walking down the street? Two German cities have installed traffic lights on the sidewalk to keep walkers out of the streets.Powerpuff girlOoops! A 12-year-old girl late for her 5K accidentally completes a half marathon. Great, yet another reason for coach potatoes to feel like crap.Father of the yearA dad saved his 6-year-old son from certain death when the son's seat belt came undone during a roller coaster ride. What'd you do today?Purple reunionThe Revolution -- Prince's old band from his "Purple Rain" days -- is getting back together . Which doesn't make a lot of sense without Prince, but OK.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening today.At the courthouseCardell Hayes, the man charged in the slaying of ex-New Orleans Saints player Will Smith, has a preliminary hearing at 11 a.m. today.Draft dayFor some folks, football season never ends. If that's you, turn on the NFL draft tonight and watch teams draft players you'll probably never hear of again.Number of the day1