(CNN) Global markets are wobbling this morning as tensions between the US and North Korea heat up. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. North KoreaWe're used to hearing apocalyptic warnings in the war of words between the US and North Korea, but usually, it's coming from the North's leader. This time, President Trump launched a verbal volley against Kim Jong Un, telling North Korea to stop threatening the US or "they will be met with fire, fury and frankly power the likes of which this world has never seen before."2. Opioid epidemicMany health officials advocate for a treatment-first approach in dealing with the nation's opioid epidemic. Not Donald Trump. The President, speaking during a briefing, wants to step up the law enforcement response to the crisis, including more arrests, and spoke in favor of what could be described as a "Just Say No"-style campaign to keep people from getting addicted in the first placeThe Trump team also refuses to declare the opioid epidemic a public health emergency , something a bipartisan commission on the topic has requested.JUST WATCHED Price: Trump pledging to fight opioid crisis Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Price: Trump pledging to fight opioid crisis 01:043. African politicsSouth Africa's President lives to fight another day. A no-confidence vote against Jacob Zuma in the country's National Assembly failed. Zuma has won two presidential elections, but he's been dogged by criminal probes and corruption allegations and still faces public pressure.JUST WATCHED Corruption report piles pressure on Zuma to resign Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Corruption report piles pressure on Zuma to resign 02:30And in Kenya, the votes have been cast, and now everyone is awaiting the results in the heated presidential election between incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. Kenyans could find out as early as today who the winner is, but more than likely it'll take a few days.4. China earthquakeA powerful quake rocked southwest China, killing at least 19 people and injuring almost 250. The magnitude-6.5 earthquake struck a popular tourist area and at least five of those killed were tourists. The Chinese government is dispatching 400 fire trucks and more than 1,100 firefighters. The tourist area, which includes a national park known for its waterfalls, has also been closed.5. Fertility ratesJUST WATCHED How you started your family Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How you started your family 01:40NUMBER OF THE DAY6.2 millionThe number of job openings in the US right now, which is a record highJUST WATCHED Refugees filling job gaps created by drugs Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Refugees filling job gaps created by drugs 06:33BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Happy trails, cowboyYes, he was the "Rhinestone Cowboy," but country singer Glen Campbell was so much more than that. He passed away at age 81.JUST WATCHED Glen Campbell dies at 81 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Glen Campbell dies at 81 02:35The Mouse is outIf you have little ones in your house, you may want to have them sit down for this: Disney's pulling its stuff off NetflixSidewalk saleThat time some of the richest people in San Francisco woke up to find that someone had literally bought their street right out from under them.JUST WATCHED Couple buys upscale San Francisco street Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Couple buys upscale San Francisco street 02:02'Gender tax'Well, this is one way to fight for equality: A cafe in Australia charges male customers more to highlight the pay gap between men and women.Road trippin'Pretty much everybody in suburban DC freaked out when a "driverless" van hit the streetsJUST WATCHED This 'driverless' van is not what it looks like Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This 'driverless' van is not what it looks like 01:35Fast failA college professor's plan to let students grade themselves -- as a way to reduce stress -- gets an F.AND FINALLY ...Voice-overs