(CNN) Don't want to deal with people today? Too bad you don't live in Nipton, California -- population: 16 . Here's what else you need to know today to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. North Korea sanctionsThe UN Security Council slammed North Korea with intense sanctions over the weekend because the rogue country can't seem to stop firing off intercontinental ballistic missiles.The sanctions will slash North Korea's annual export revenue of $3 billion by more than a third and will affect primary exports like coal, iron, iron ore, lead, lead ore and seafood.US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley the new sanctions " a gut punch " and said the US will do "whatever it takes" to keep the world safe from North Korea's increasingly reckless overtures.Meanwhile, a spot of good news: The foreign ministers of North Korea and South Korea reportedly spoke face-to-face at a gala in Manila last night in the first known high-level encounter between the two Koreas since May. It was a minor diplomatic victory with probably no material benefit, but when it comes to North Korea any diplomatic victory is worth noting.JUST WATCHED Haley: Sanctions are a gut punch to N. Korea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Haley: Sanctions are a gut punch to N. Korea 01:502. Venezuela crisisUnrest, protests and suffering are still plaguing Venezuela a week after an election stacked the government with allies of President Nicolás Maduro.Yesterday, authorities said they quelled an anti-government paramilitary attack at a military base that led to the deaths of two people.The act of rebellion came at the same time ousted Attorney General Luisa Ortega Diaz said she'll defy the newly-elected National Constituent Assembly that fired her and froze her assets.JUST WATCHED Why Venezuela is in crisis Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Venezuela is in crisis 01:493. State fair fireEven though the "Fire Ball" ride was inspected several times in the days before the accident, reports after the incident claimed interior corrosion had reduced the strength of a beam. That defect led to the horrific scene in which a swinging car on the ride broke loose and became airborne, flying over the heads of horrified onlookers.JUST WATCHED One dead in ride malfunction at Ohio State Fair Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH One dead in ride malfunction at Ohio State Fair 01:034. Mike PenceVice President Mike Pence hit back at a New York Times r eport that he was considering running for president in 2020 if Trump didn't seek reelection. In an unusual official written statement over the weekend, Pence called the report "disgraceful and offensive to me, my family, and our entire team." It also called the claims "laughable and absurd."The Times' report noted Pence's aggressive political schedule and fund-raising operation and said multiple advisers told donors that Pence would run for president if Trump did not. Of course, Trump certainly seems to have no plans of missing the 2020 race -- he has already held several campaign events while in office.JUST WATCHED Pence: New York Times report is disgraceful Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pence: New York Times report is disgraceful 01:545. Google manifestoGoogle is having to quell fury, both inside the company and out, after a 3,300-word manifesto written by one of its male engineers became public . The screed argues that women aren't suited for tech jobs for "biological" reasons and rails against diversity in the workplace. All in all, it was a bad look for one of the world's most powerful companies.Over the weekend, Google diversity vice president Danielle Brown and engineering VP Ari Balogh addressed the controversial document in separate messages to employees. Balogh called the rant "deeply troubling." Brown said "[I]t's not a viewpoint that I or this company endorses, promotes or encourages."BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Here's what 'Game of Thrones' can tell us about traumaThis explains how some people always get what they wantDunkin' Donuts may rebrand as Dunkin' for... reasons?Actors Chris Pratt and Anna Faris splitSean Spicer will not be on 'Dancing with the Stars'QUOTE OF THE DAY"This is a mass fatality crisis"AND FINALLY ...Hey, waiter!