(CNN) In the wake of the horror in Charlottesville, protesters in North Carolina took their anti-Confederate beef into their own hands . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. CharlottesvilleIt took a couple days, but President Trump finally condemned and called out by name the white nationalists, neo-Nazis and other extremist groups that brought violence and death to Charlottesville, Virginia, over the weekend. Trump's words, while strong , would have been much more powerful if he'd said them Saturday, so for a lot of folks, this was just too little, too late.Trump's delay in condemning the groups was apparently the last straw for a trio of CEOs. The heads of Merck, Intel and Under Armour all quit the President's manufacturing council. Trump almost immediately lashed out at Kenneth Frazier , Merck's CEO, raising even more eyebrows. Critics pointed out that the President took just minutes to hit Frazier, one of the country's most prominent black business leaders, but waited days to take on white supremacistsMeanwhile, James Alex Fields Jr. had his first court appearance. He's charged with second-degree murder and other crimes. Police say Fields was behind the wheel of the car that deliberately rammed into a group of counterprotesters at the "Unite the Right" rally. Heather Heyer , a 32-year-old paralegal, was killed.2. North KoreaJUST WATCHED Will THAAD protect South Koreans? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Will THAAD protect South Koreans? 01:573. Iran nuclear dealJUST WATCHED Donald Trump and Iran: the one thing to know Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Donald Trump and Iran: the one thing to know 01:364. Sierra Leone mudslidesHundreds of people are feared dead after mudslides ripped through Sierra Leone . The bodies of about 200 people have been recovered, but that number is sure to rise. Mudslides hit areas just outside the capital of Freetown, sweeping down hillsides and obliterating everything. Entire families are reported missing in the West African nation of 6 million residents. The mudslides have been fed by rainfall that's triple the average for this time of year. A presidential spokesman said the "whole country is traumatized."JUST WATCHED Mudslides kill hundreds in Sierra Leone Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mudslides kill hundreds in Sierra Leone 01:195. Taylor SwiftJUST WATCHED Jury rules in favor of Taylor Swift in groping case Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jury rules in favor of Taylor Swift in groping case 01:26QUOTE OF THE DAY"If it was up to me, he would be gone"Anthony Scaramucci on whether Trump adviser Ex-White House Communications Directoron whether Trump adviser Steve Bannon should be firedJUST WATCHED Colbert: Did Trump order his spine on Amazon? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Colbert: Did Trump order his spine on Amazon? 01:30BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Brand new bagThe doctor's bag of the future may not be a bag at all but a 3-D printer spitting out medical equipment in space.JUST WATCHED Scientist helps astronauts print medical equipment in space Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Scientist helps astronauts print medical equipment in space 01:08Powerhouse moveShonda Rhimes is taking her talents to Netflix . But don't fret, "Scandal" fans, the TGIT lineup is staying put on ABC.No rattle and rollHow to build a quake-proof building : Step 1) Drape it under a giant curtain of carbon fiber rods.JUST WATCHED This rod could make buildings earthquake proof Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This rod could make buildings earthquake proof 03:34Chance of a lifetimeThat time you went to a Chance the Rapper concert and the ex-leader of the free world showed up.JUST WATCHED Obama gives surprise message at concert Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama gives surprise message at concert 01:02Quiet timeBig Ben -- the London landmark, not the Steelers QB -- will be silent for four years as a major conservation project begins.NUMBER OF THE DAY$19 millionAND FINALLY ...High times