(CNN) Been busy? Just now realize a big solar eclipse is coming? Don't worry; here's our guide for slackers . And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. North Korea2. Mitch McConnell3. Opioid crisisJUST WATCHED Trump: Opioid crisis is national emergency Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: Opioid crisis is national emergency 00:454. New Orleans floodingRain's in the forecast today for the Crescent City, and that's very bad news. Regular, run-of-the-mill rainstorms have flooded parts of New Orleans recently, because a handful of key pumps that drain the city -- some of which sits below sea level -- aren't working. A turbine that helps power some of those pumps also was damaged in a fire . In anticipation of today's rain and possible flooding, some schools are closed, and residents are being warned to stay indoors and off the roads. Rainwater flooding did not wreck the city in Hurricane Katrina, when breaches in federal levees let a nearby lake spill into the streets.JUST WATCHED Inside New Orleans' huge flood barrier Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Inside New Orleans' huge flood barrier 02:285. Taylor SwiftPop superstar Taylor Swift took the stand in her civil suit against a former DJ she said groped her during a meet-and-greet . Swift said David Mueller, a radio host in Denver, grabbed her backside when they took a picture together four years ago. Mueller denies this and says it's all a misunderstanding. Swift was having none of that: "What Mr. Mueller did was very intentional," she testified. She later told Mueller's lawyer, "I'm not going to allow you or your client to make me feel in any way that this is my fault, because it isn't."Writer Peggy Drexler said Swift spoke for all women and highlighted the sexual harassment they endure daily. And CNN legal analyst Paul Callan said Swift sent a strong message to men, too: Get your groping hands off us.JUST WATCHED Taylor Swift alleges DJ groped her Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Taylor Swift alleges DJ groped her 01:46NUMBER OF THE DAY1 in 8The number of Americans struggling with alcohol abuse , according to a new studyJUST WATCHED Are you an addict? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Are you an addict? 02:03BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Look at thisAs if you don't spend enough time on social media, Facebook now wants you to watch videos on its new service called ... Watch.Croc rockA prehistoric crocodile -- known for crushing prey with its massive jaw and teeth -- has been named for heavy metal legend LemmyThey're so flyWe don't know much about China's Hainan Airlines, other than it's got the coolest cabin crew uniforms on the planet.Only in CaliforniaA marijuana company bought a small California town and plans to turn it into, what else, a pot paradise.AND FINALLY ...Panda power