(CNN) Don't be fooled by the word "energy" in your favorite energy bar. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Hurricane Harvey2. Samsung sentenceJUST WATCHED Samsung chief gets 5 years in prison Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Samsung chief gets 5 years in prison 02:533. Florida executionJUST WATCHED How executions go wrong Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How executions go wrong 02:164. Debt ceilingJUST WATCHED Raising debt ceiling is not a license to spend Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Raising debt ceiling is not a license to spend 02:065. Whole FoodsAmazon will officially be running Whole Foods on Monday, and the first thing the Internet behemoth will do is cut prices at the stores . It could mean less silliness, like the $6-a-bottle "asparagus water" that turned up in a California store a couple years ago. While customers and other critics of the chain's high prices will be happy, regular old supermarkets won't be. They're already battling Walmart and Target for market share, so the prospect of now having to take on an Amazon-fortified Whole Foods is absolutely frightening for them.JUST WATCHED Why Amazon is buying Whole Foods Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Amazon is buying Whole Foods 01:54BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Dancing foolsWatching a thousand robots dance in sync while setting a new Guinness record is both entertaining and scary as heck.JUST WATCHED Dancing robots in China earn world record Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dancing robots in China earn world record 00:46'Look' outJust go ahead and learn all the words to Taylor Swift's new single , "Look What You Made Me Do." Or you can wait for the tweens in your life to force it on you.A cup of artThe guy at your local coffee shop can make a leaf with the foam? That's cute. This South Korean barista can recreate the classics.Musical medicineThis former Navy medic traded his medicine bag for a mic and now uses hip-hop to help his fellow vets.QUOTE OF THE DAY"I'm going to just hide in my bed"Powerball winner Mavis Wanczyk, on how she planned to celebrate winning the $759 million jackpotNEWS OF THE WEEKHere's a question from our weekly news quiz, which you can check out later today at CNN.com:Millions of Americans from coast to coast looked to the skies to see what?A. Alien spaceshipsB. Solar eclipseC. Lunar eclipseD. Unusual cloud formationsAND FINALLY ...Little drummer bird