(CNN) Ever wonder what the weather's like on Mars or Neptune? Now, you don't have to (and spoiler alert: it involves diamond rain ). Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President TrumpBut that wasn't all. The President defended his controversial remarks about the deadly violence in Charlottesville without mentioning his infamous "many sides" lines. Trump's base loved every bit of it, but the whole thing left James Clapper, ex-director of national intelligence, openly questioning Trump's fitness for officeJUST WATCHED Clapper questions Trump's fitness to hold office Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Clapper questions Trump's fitness to hold office 01:52Finally there was action outside the rally, too, as thousands of protesters showed up and mixed it up with Trump supporters and the police. Rocks and bottles were thrown; tear gas was used; a few people got arrested.2. US NavyJUST WATCHED US Navy destroyer collides with ship Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US Navy destroyer collides with ship 01:133. Missouri executionThe planned execution of a Missouri inmate is on hold while new DNA evidence in the case is reviewed. Marcellus Williams was set to be executed for the stabbing death in 1998 of a former St. Louis newspaper reporter. But his attorneys say DNA evidence not available during his trial in 2001 proves his innocence. So, Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens issued a stay of execution and ordered a new panel to look at the case. The state attorney general's office says the DNA evidence "does not come close" to proving Williams' innocence.4. AfghanistanJUST WATCHED The pillars of Trump's Afghanistan strategy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The pillars of Trump's Afghanistan strategy 02:085. Eclipse eye injuriesSo, you looked at the eclipse , and now you're worried you've ruined your eyesight ? You're not alone. Google searches for "my eyes hurt" and "eyes hurt eclipse" spiked pretty much right after the event. Lots of folks posted to social media about headaches, nausea and sensitivity to light -- all possible signs of a problem, ophthalmologists told CNN. Other symptoms to watch out for: blurred vision, "wavy" vision, difficulty discriminating colors and seeing "spots" or "holes" in your vision. If that's the case, get an eye exam, ophthalmologists say.JUST WATCHED Watch the sun go dark again and again Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch the sun go dark again and again 01:38BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.What's in a name?ESPN is getting roasted online because it's booting a play-by-play announcer from an upcoming Virginia football game because his name is ... Robert Lee.End of the Upside DownSeason 2 of "Stranger Things" doesn't start until October, but the end is already near for the popular Netflix show."Keeping the Faith"Billy Joel says he tries to stay out of politics, but not during his latest show at Madison Square Garden, where he wore a Star of DavidMajor miracleAn earthquake leveled an Italian island and killed two people, but not all hope was lost -- a child was rescued after 15 hours trapped under rubble.QUOTE OF THE DAY"Thank you @ChelseaClinton"First lady Melania Trump, thanking the former first daughter for standing up for current first son Barron Trump against online bullyingThank you @ChelseaClinton - so important to support all of our children in being themselves! #StopChildhoodBullying https://t.co/UCUpFc5ZjR — Melania Trump (@FLOTUS) August 23, 2017NUMBER OF THE DAY$700 millionThat's the jackpot for tonight's Powerball drawing -- the second-largest on record -- and there's still time to grab a ticket.AND FINALLY ...Check the technique