(CNN) Celebrities and sports stars are helping Harvey survivors. You can, too. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. HarveyThe rain may have finally stopped for (most of) the Houston area, but the misery remains. Harvey dumped about 50 inches of rain on southeast Texas, a record for the lower 48 states. Now, the storm is moving into Louisiana . Harvey made a second landfall as a tropical storm early this morning near the Louisiana-Texas border, bringing 30- to 40-mph winds, a 2- to 4-foot storm surge and as much as 12 inches of rain.There are 11 confirmed deaths from the storm, including a Houston police officer who drowned while trying to get to work. There are also people missing, including a family of six that was swept away in a van . The economic toll is also predicted to be staggering. Already, 500,000 cars may have been destroyed in Houston by Harvey.Stories of people stepping up to help each other are abundant. There's the furniture store owner who is letting evacuees sleep in his showroom . And the Cajun Navy , which is still saving people in Houston, even as the storm now threatens its home state. Harvey hasn't brought out the best in everybody, though. There are lots of scams out there, and scattered reports of looting, which is why Houston's mayor imposed a nightly curfew.2. President TrumpJUST WATCHED WH realizes hurricane response can define presidency Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH WH realizes hurricane response can define presidency 04:123. North KoreaJUST WATCHED US Air Force stays prepared in Guam Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US Air Force stays prepared in Guam 02:384. Russia investigationSpecial Counsel Robert Mueller has issued subpoenas to a former lawyer for Paul Manafort and to Manafort's current spokesman, an aggressive tactic that suggests an effort to add pressure on the former Trump campaign chairman . The subpoenas seeking documents and testimony were sent to Melissa Laurenza, an attorney with the Akin Gump law firm who until recently represented Manafort, and to Jason Maloni, who is Manafort's spokesman, according to people familiar with the matter.Manafort is under investigation for possible tax and financial crimes, according to US officials briefed on the investigation. The allegations under investigation largely center on Manafort's work for the former ruling party in Ukraine , which was ousted amid street protests over its pro-Russian policies.JUST WATCHED Mueller subpoenas Manafort's former attorney and spokesman Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mueller subpoenas Manafort's former attorney and spokesman 01:205. Salmonella outbreakThere's a new salmonella outbreak, and it has a source you probably haven't thought about: turtles. That's because turtles can carry salmonella bacteria on their skin or shells. The CDC says there have been 37 cases of salmonella reported across 13 states since March. Most of the cases involve kids younger than 5. In almost half the cases, the patients said they had been in recent contact with a turtle. So, the CDC says: don't pet turtles or give them as gifts.JUST WATCHED Salmonella 101: What you need to know Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Salmonella 101: What you need to know 01:09NUMBER OF THE DAY18,000The number of Rohingya Muslims who have fled their homes in less than a week amid violence in Myanmar's Rakhine stateJUST WATCHED Thousands of Rohingya flee violence in Myanmar Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Thousands of Rohingya flee violence in Myanmar 01:35BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Need a ride?Jon Runyan's been a lot of things in his life: pro-football player, US congressman. Now he's adding part-time Uber driver to his resume.Maybe 'SNL' is nextKim Onassis?Kim K doesn't mind courting controversy, and that's what she got with a magazine cover in which she seems to channel Jackie Onassis.Heavy is the head that wears the crownAngelique Kerber, hope you enjoyed your time as the women's US Open champ, because it's over now , thanks to a 19-year-old.QUOTE OF THE DAY"Nowhere is political journalism so free, so robust, or perhaps so rowdy as in the United States"Federal Judge Jed Rakoff, who tossed out Sarah Palin's defamation lawsuit against The New York TimesAND FINALLY ...That's so annoying