(CNN) To our Northern Hemisphere readers, Happy Shortest Day of the Year ! At least where the calendar is concerned, it only gets brighter from here! Now, on to everything else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Melbourne car attackA car plowed into a crowd of Christmas shoppers today in Melbourne, Australia, in what police are calling a "deliberate act." Two people have been arrested in connection with the incident , though police say it is too early in the investigation to name a motive.Thankfully, no one was killed, but more than a dozen people were injured, including a small child. The car hit pedestrians outside Melbourne's iconic Flinders Street station just after 4:30 p.m. local time. The streets and landmarks around the station recently have been the target of multiple attempted terrorist plots , all foiled by police.2. Taxes and ShutdownFor now, though, the hurdle for House Republicans is cobbling together a proposal to keep the government open ahead of tomorrow's shutdown deadline . Yes, tomorrow. Some big-ticket items still must be hammered out, including disaster aid, defense spending and funding for health insurance for children.JUST WATCHED What a government shutdown means for you Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What a government shutdown means for you 00:563. Puerto RicoPuerto Rico's governor this week called for a re-examination of the number of deaths on the island related to Hurricane Maria. The problem is, most of these bodies have been buried or cremated already, which will severely limit the US territory's efforts to re-analyze the deaths.JUST WATCHED CNN probe prompts review of Maria death toll Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN probe prompts review of Maria death toll 04:234. Theresa MayJUST WATCHED Theresa May: What you need to know Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Theresa May: What you need to know 01:145. Confederate statuesTwo Confederate statues have been removed from parks in Memphis , after city officials sold the land to a nonprofit. In terms of infamy, the statues paid tribute to two of the most controversial Confederate figures: Civil War general and Ku Klux Klan leader Nathan Bedford Forrest, and Jefferson Davis, who served as President of the Confederate States. As a reminder: These types of statues almost never went up right after the Civil War. The Forrest statue was placed in 1904, amid the passage of Jim Crow-era segregation laws. The Davis statue was placed in 1964, amid the civil rights battle.JUST WATCHED Should the US ban Confederate monuments? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Should the US ban Confederate monuments? 09:52BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Remember that Virginia House race that was won by one vote?JUST WATCHED Name to be drawn out of a hat in Virginia race Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Name to be drawn out of a hat in Virginia race 02:30The release of Chocolate Peanut Butter Cheerios helped boost slumping cereal sales this yearUS life expectancy has fallen for the second year in a rowJUST WATCHED 'Love drug' found in chocolate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Love drug' found in chocolate 01:26Khloé Kardashian has confirmed her pregnancyJUST WATCHED Khloé Kardashian confirms pregnancy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Khloé Kardashian confirms pregnancy 01:03Here's what children around the world get for ChristmasNUMBER OF THE DAY42,249The number of people who lost their lives last year to opioid overdose . That means, in 2016, more people were killed by opioid abuse than by breast cancer.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHUN vote on JerusalemJUST WATCHED US defiant at UN Security Council Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US defiant at UN Security Council 01:30A delicate electionVoters in the Spanish region of Catalonia will elect a new government today , in a litmus test of the independence movement's legitimacy after its provocative attempt to break away from Spain..AND FINALLY ...Don't think about it. Just watch.