(CNN) It's not too early to freak out over Christmas shopping. Here are 10 tech gadgets the people in your life will love. And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Tax overhaulThe GOP effort to remake the nation's tax code was rolling along nicely in the Senate. A final vote was set for last night, and even maverick Sen. John McCain said he was on board . Then, the whole thing hit a trillion dollar-sized pothole. A nonpartisan analysis of the Senate tax bill said yes, it would generate some economic growth, but the massive tax cuts in it would still add $1 trillion to the deficit over 10 years. That flies in the face of White House claims that the tax cuts would pay for themselves.So, deficit hawks like Bob Corker -- Tennessee senator and Donald Trump nemesis -- demanded some changes. The big vote was delayed until later today , and the tax writers went back to work. Corker wants to find ways to raise more revenue if the tax package indeed doesn't create enough economic growth. So, the GOP is looking at things like gradually raising the corporate rate after the initial tax cut or not completely repealing the alternative minimum tax.Graham: Now it's when tax bill passes, not ifGraham: Now it's when tax bill passes, not if 01:28Graham: Now it's when tax bill passes, not if2. Kate Steinle verdictThe debate over immigration policy reignited after a San Francisco jury acquitted an undocumented immigrant in a woman's shooting death. Jose Ines Garcia Zarate was found not guilty of murder and involuntary manslaughter in the killing of Kate Steinle . Garcia Zarate had been deported five times and was in the country illegally when he shot and killed Steinle in 2015.The case became a flashpoint in the debate over immigration because prior to the shooting, San Francisco, under a sanctuary city law , had released Garcia Zarate instead of turning him over to ICE. President Trump, who used the shooting on the campaign trail to make the case for his border wall proposal, called the verdict "disgraceful." Garcia Zarate is set to be deported again.JUST WATCHED This case sparked a sanctuary city debate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This case sparked a sanctuary city debate 02:013. White HouseReports popped up that the White House was prepping a replacement for Secretary of State Rex Tillerson -- possible CIA Director Mike Pompeo. Now, we've learned that this public shaming of Tillerson was President Trump's way of expressing displeasure with him, similar to the way he went after Attorney General Jeff Sessions earlier this year. Some officials expect Tillerson to be gone by the end of the year. So, it seems like a big ole plate of awkward will be on the menu when Trump, Tillerson and Defense Secretary James Mattis have lunch together today at the White House.JUST WATCHED Source: WH wanted to publicly shame Tillerson Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Source: WH wanted to publicly shame Tillerson 01:564. Slavery in LibyaJUST WATCHED Libya's migrant slaves 'wanted their stories told' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Libya's migrant slaves 'wanted their stories told' 03:155. JapanJapanese Emperor Akihito will step down in 2019, becoming the first Japanese monarch to abdicate in 200 years . In a speech last year, Akihito, who is 83, hinted that he wanted to move on, saying his advanced age and his fitness level was making it difficult to carry out his duties. His son, Crown Prince Naruhito, would be the new Emperor.Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Japanese Emperor Akihito turned 84 on December 23, 2017. Akihito is the 125th Emperor of Japan, a direct descendant of Japan's first emperor Jimmu, circa 660 B.C. Here, we take a look at the life of the world's only monarch with the title of emperor. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito A portrait of Crown Prince Akihito in January 1936 at age 3. He is the son of Empress Nagako and Emperor Hirohito, whom he succeeded in 1989. The Chrysanthemum Throne is the oldest hereditary monarchy in the world. Records show the imperial line to be unbroken for 14 centuries. Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Crown Prince Akihito with some of his school friends at the Imperial School in Tokyo, circa 1938. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Crown Prince Akihito in ceremonial robes for his formal investiture as crown prince at the Tokyo Imperial Palace on November 10, 1952. Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Prince Akihito in his private study at the Imperial Palace in 1952. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Queen Elizabeth II and Akihito are seen in the royal box at the Epsom Downs Racecourse on June 6, 1953, in England. Crown Prince Akihito made the trip to attend her coronation. Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Akihito addresses the crowd upon arrival at Oahu Airport on October 8, 1953, in Honolulu. During seven months of travel, the crown prince visited 14 countries. Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Akihito during his wedding to Michiko Shoda in 1959. He is the first Japanese crown prince to marry a commoner. Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Akihito with his pet dog Dingo in December 1963, on the grounds of Togu Palace, his residence in Tokyo. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Prince Akihito takes a walk with Princess Michiko and their son Naruhito in 1964. Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito In a 1969 portrait, Emperor Hirohito and Empress Nagako pose with their children and grandchildren. Crown Prince Akihito stands on the far right. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Visitors to China's Forbidden City walk beneath Japanese and Chinese flags, flown to welcome Emperor Akihito on October 23,1992. Akihito's visit to China was the first ever by a Japanese emperor. Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito President Bill Clinton offers a toast to Emperor Akihito at the White House in June 1994, during the first state dinner of Clinton's administration. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito South African President Nelson Mandela and Emperor Akihito toast during a banquet at the Imperial Palace in Tokyo in July 1995. Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Emperor Akihito leaves the Imperial Palace for the hospital in January 2003. The emperor had a successful operation to remove his cancerous prostate. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko leave the residence of the late Princess Kikuko after paying their respects in Tokyo on December 19, 2004. The princess was Akihito's aunt. Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Akihito's eldest son and heir-apparent, Crown Prince Naruhito, granddaughter Princess Aiko, and Crown Princess Masako enter the Imperial Palace in Tokyo on September 2, 2006. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito The Emperor and the Empress greet U.S. President Barack Obama at the Imperial Palace on November 14, 2009. Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Akihito leaves the University of Tokyo Hospital in Tokyo on February 12, 2012. Akihito was scheduled to undergo heart bypass surgery after tests showed the narrowing of his arteries had worsened. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko are greeted at Chennai International Airport in India on December 4, 2013, after arriving from New Delhi on the second leg of their weeklong trip to India. This was the first time they had been to India in 53 years. Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito From the balcony of the Imperial Palace, Emperor Akihito greets thousands of people, waving Japanese flags, who have gathered to wish him a happy 82nd birthday on December 23, 2014. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Then Philippine President, Benigno Aquino welcomes Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko as they start their 5-day state visit to the Philippines on January 26, 2016. A gesture to honor 60 years of strong diplomacy post-WWII, their trip marked the first-ever visit by a reigning Japanese emperor to the Philippines. Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan's Emperor Akihito Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko wave to well-wishers from the balcony of the Imperial Palace in Tokyo on January 2, 2018. Hide Caption 23 of 23NUMBER OF THE DAY10The number of years a Texas murder suspect -- featured on HLN's "The Hunt with John Walsh" -- was on the run before being captured this weekQUOTE OF THE DAY"We love you, and we miss you, and we need to know that you're safe. Please call us."The mother of Caitlyn Frisina, the missing Florida teen who police think is with a 27-year-old soccer coachBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Goodbye, GomerJim Nabors will always be our Gomer Pyle , though the talented actor had quite the singing career, too, releasing 28 albums. Nabors died at age 87.JUST WATCHED Actor Jim Nabors dead at 87 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Actor Jim Nabors dead at 87 03:00Roaring backTiger Woods looked something like the Tiger of old when he played in the Hero World Challenge, his first bit of competitive golf since his back surgery.Super SundayThere's only going to be one supermoon this year, and it happens on Sunday . But if you miss it, don't worry. There are two more coming up in January.JUST WATCHED What is a Supermoon you ask... Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is a Supermoon you ask... 00:46Meet MulanThe world has a new Mulan. She's Chinese actress Liu Yifei , and she'll be starring in Disney's live-action remake of the animated classic.It's got the lookPrince's iconic "Love Symbol" guitar is going up for auction , and it may go for way more than the estimated $100,000 bidding price.JUST WATCHED Is this Prince's greatest guitar solo? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is this Prince's greatest guitar solo? 00:48WHAT'S FOR LUNCHDraw it upForgive the soccer fans in your life if they're a little distracted today. The World Cup 2018 draw is today , and they'll be hoping and praying that their team doesn't end up in the "Group of Death."JUST WATCHED The 2018 FIFA World Cup Draw in Russia Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The 2018 FIFA World Cup Draw in Russia 03:00CNN NEWS QUIZWhich British royal got engaged to an American actress?a) Prince Harryb) Prince Phillipc) Prince Williamd) Prince CharlesIf you think you know the answer -- and want to test your knowledge of the week's other top news stories -- click here to take the CNN News QuizAND FINALLY ...Let it snow