(CNN) GM has a new app in its vehicles that lets you order Starbucks while you drive . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)Nobel Peace PrizeThe winners of this year's Nobel Peace Prize have a stark warning for the world's nuclear powers: the planet's destruction is "only one impulsive tantrum away." Members of the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons (ICAN), while accepting the prize during a ceremony in Oslo, Norway, urged all countries that have nukes to get rid of them. Setsuko Thurlow, a survivor of the Hiroshima bombing and an ICAN member, said the world can't "tolerate this insanity any longer."ICAN was awarded the Peace Prize for its work as the driving force behind the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which was adopted by 122 nations. Not among them are the nine countries known to have nuclear weapons : the US, Russia, China, Britain, France, India, Pakistan, North Korea and Israel.Alabama Senate racePresident Trump embraced controversial Senate candidate Roy Moore even tighter over the weekend. The President recorded a robocall for Moore, saying his conservative agenda will be "stopped cold" if Democratic candidate Doug Jones wins tomorrow's special election. (The Republicans hold a 52-48 majority in the Senate.) The robocall comes after the President essentially held a rally for Moore, across the state line in Pensacola, Florida. The establishment wing of the GOP still has big time reservations about Moore after all the sexual misconduct allegations. Alabama's other senator, Republican Richard Shelby, says he couldn't vote for Moore . Jones will put out a robocall featuring Shelby's criticisms today.JUST WATCHED Shelby: The Republican Party can do better Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shelby: The Republican Party can do better 00:43California wildfiresThe wildfires tearing through Southern California are now burning an area bigger than New York City and Boston combined. The biggest of the six blazes -- the 230,000-acre Thomas Fire -- is the fifth-largest blaze in state history. And the weather is not helping out firefighters at all. There's no rain in the forecast for 10 days, winds are still gusty and vegetation is still dry. Gov. Jerry Brown, who toured damage over the weekend, warned Californians wildfires are "the new normal."JUST WATCHED Thomas Fire scorches southern California Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Thomas Fire scorches southern California 01:03JerusalemTurkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called Israel a "terrorist" and "child-murderer state" in an address yesterday as he criticized President Donald Trump over his recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's response? "I'm not used to receiving lectures about morality from a leader who bombs Kurdish villagers in his native Turkey, who jails journalists, who helps Iran go around international sanctions, and who helps terrorists."JUST WATCHED Netanyahu defends Trump decision at EU Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Netanyahu defends Trump decision at EU 02:03Iraq and ISISIraq's military says it's finally kicked ISIS out of the country. The country's Prime Minister says all areas have been "fully liberated" and Iraq has retaken control of its border with Syria. In 2014, ISIS captured huge swaths of Iraq and Syria and declared a caliphate there. The campaign to push out the terrorist group took three years and involved 25,000 coalition airstrikes.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Bannon backlashTrump political guru Steve Bannon is back on the radio -- on SiriusXM -- and left-leaning celebs aren't having it.Brace for itA sea turtle is doing swimmingly thanks to a 3-D-printed brace used to cover a gap in its shell.Wounded EagleThe Philadelphia Eagles, arguably the NFL's hottest team, won a playoff spot, only to see their QB go down with a knee injury. Bummer.One man's trash ...A Kenyan artist is giving "trash a second chance" by using it to create eye-catching works of art.Today's must-watch'Beneath the Skin'In fear for his life, a Chicago police officer shoots an armed black teen. At least, that's one version of the story. What really happened the day Roshad McIntosh died? Find out in Episode 2 of "Beneath the Skin."AND FINALLY ...Husky vs. husky