(CNN) Still looking for your holiday light fix? Here are our picks for the best holiday light displays around the world . And even if you don't go, you can still "ooh" and "ahh" over the pics. Now, here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Government shutdownPut those countdown clocks away. There won't be a government shutdown , at least not today. The House and Senate both OK'd a short-term spending measure to keep the government open through January 19. It funds the Children's Health Insurance Program through March and includes a three-week extension of a government surveillance program. But it kicks the can down the road on thornier issues, like the level of defense spending and a fix for the immigration program known as DACA.2. United NationsUN ambassador Nikki Haley warned that the US would be "taking names" of countries that voted for a resolution condemning President Donald Trump's decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel . Hope she has a pencil handy; she's got a lot to write down.The UN brushed off Haley's threat and overwhelmingly approved the resolution 128 to 9, with 35 nations abstaining. Trump had threatened to cut off foreign aid to any country that voted for the resolution, and Haley said the US "will remember it when we are called upon to once again make the world's largest contribution" to the UN. A State Department spokeswoman said the US would "explore various options" following the UN vote.JUST WATCHED UN votes to condemn Trump's Jerusalem decision Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH UN votes to condemn Trump's Jerusalem decision 01:393. CataloniaSpain hoped the results of regional elections would deliver a knockout blow to Catalonia's separatist ambitions. Looks like that's not happening. Three separatist parties won a majority of the seats in the region's Parliament , meaning Catalonia's push for independence from Spain -- which triggered the country's worst political crisis in decades -- will continue. Madrid had seized control of the region earlier this year after dismissing the entire Catalan government and Parliament.JUST WATCHED Catalans back pro-independence parties Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Catalans back pro-independence parties 01:444. Papa John'sThe pizza chain has a new daddy after founder and chief executive John Schnatter announced he's stepping down (though he's staying on as chairman). No reason was given for the move, but it's been a rough year for the pizza chain. Sales are down, and Papa John's stock price dipped by almost a third. The company is also a big NFL sponsor, so it didn't go over well when Schnatter ripped NFL players over the National Anthem protests , which he also tied to the slumping sales.5. Life expectancyBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Next time, just flip a coinIn Virginia, elections are nice and all, but nothing expresses the will of the people quite like randomly pulling pieces of paper out of film canistersiSlowIf it seems your old Apple iPhone got really slow all of a sudden , it's not your imagination. Apple says it does this for your own good. Of course.JUST WATCHED Apple's new iPhone 8, iPhone 8 Plus in :90 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Apple's new iPhone 8, iPhone 8 Plus in :90 01:35Sound of the gameDick Enberg was the voice of the Olympics and NFL football for decades , but the sports broadcasting legend will forever be remembered for his catchphrase, "Oh my." He's died at age 82.Engaging photosYou may not be into the royal wedding AT ALL, but still you have to admit, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are a supercute coupleWHAT'S FOR LUNCHTax bill signingPresident Trump is expected to sign the $1.5 trillion tax bill into law today, shortly before he heads to Florida for the holidays.JUST WATCHED Ivanka Trump flubs tax bill pitch on Fox News Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ivanka Trump flubs tax bill pitch on Fox News 01:30NUMBER OF THE DAY8.8 millionThat's the number of people signed up for Obamacare for 2018 , despite the Trump administration cutting the enrollment period in half and slashing the advertising budget by 90%.JUST WATCHED GOP tax bill includes repeal of Obamacare mandate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH GOP tax bill includes repeal of Obamacare mandate 02:30QUIZ TIMEWhat menu item will McDonald's begin selling in Europe, in apparent defiance of its reputation as a binge option?1) Zucchini fries2) A McVegan burger3) An Eight Pounder with Cheese4) Tofu McNuggetsAND FINALLY ...Santa school