(CNN) Survivors of the Las Vegas shooting will need long-term support. Here's how you can help. And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Las VegasThe one person who may have a clue as to why Stephen Paddock decided to kill 58 people at a country music festival will soon be talking with investigators. Marilou Danley , Paddock's girlfriend, just flew in from the Philippines and landed in Los Angeles. She was accompanied by FBI agents and will be questioned by Las Vegas police.We've also gotten more details about the shooting itself through police body-cam footage , which captures the rapid staccato of the gunfire. The gunman continuously fired for about 10 minutes . Photos from Paddock's hotel suite at Mandalay Bay were also published, showing guns, ammunition and what appears to be a body on the floor.2. Puerto RicoJUST WATCHED Trump tosses paper towel rolls in Puerto Rico Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump tosses paper towel rolls in Puerto Rico 01:133. Facebook and RussiaJUST WATCHED How did Russia know to exploit race on FB? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How did Russia know to exploit race on FB? 02:374. SpainJUST WATCHED Tensions high after Catalonia referendum vote Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tensions high after Catalonia referendum vote 02:305. UberNUMBER OF THE DAY3 billionThe number of Yahoo accounts hacked in a 2013 data breach . In other words: Every. Single. One.JUST WATCHED Timeline: The rise and fall of Yahoo Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Timeline: The rise and fall of Yahoo 03:25BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Snap, crackle, stopdApple put out a fix for the new iOS 11 update after people complained about a crackling sound during phone and FaceTime calls.Great grandpaMeet "ICU Grandpa," a retired marketing executive who cradles babies at an Atlanta hospital when their parents can't.Cold caseIt's one of the big mysteries from one of humanity's saddest stories: Who betrayed Anne Frank? An ex-FBI agent's on the case.Fantasy islandWelcome to Japan's "art island," where cool sculptures dot the landscape and even abandoned buildings can become things of beauty.QUOTE OF THE DAY"I think they will feel some of what's happening now as intrinsically not what they were taught."Michelle Obama, saying young people who came of age during her husband's presidency are hearing different messages in the age of TrumpAND FINALLY ...'Do you remember?'