(CNN) Halloween's right around the corner. Let's all enjoy it by staying safe . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. WikiLeaks and the Trump campaignThe head of a data analytics company linked to the Trump campaign contacted WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange in 2016 regarding thousands of Hillary Clinton's emails kept on a private server while she was secretary of state, according to four sources familiar with the outreach.Alexander Nix, the chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, sent an email to several people -- including top Donald Trump donor Rebekah Mercer -- relaying that he had emailed Assange seeking access to emails from Clinton's private server to turn them into a searchable database for the campaign or a pro-Trump political action committee, two of the sources said.The attempt at collaboration raises fresh questions about the willingness of people associated with the Trump campaign to work with WikiLeaks for political gain. The site, which publishes leaked documents, released hacked emails in July from the Democratic National Committee and in October from Clinton campaign chair John Podesta. US intelligence has said the Podesta emails were stolen by Russia and handed over to WikiLeaks through an intermediary.2. Tax reformToday the House is supposed to vote on the budget blueprint that's already been OK'd by the Senate, the next step in the GOP and Trump administration effort to overhaul the tax code. But there's trouble on the horizon. There are a lot of House Republicans upset over the budget framework's plan to wipe out the deduction for state and local taxes . That tax break is extremely popular in high-tax states like California, New York and Illinois. The Republicans can only afford to lose about 22 votes on this, but there are about 30 GOP members from districts that rely heavily on this deduction -- enough to sink the budget. So Republican leaders are scrambling to come up with a compromise.JUST WATCHED Ivanka Trump: Tax reform 'critically important' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ivanka Trump: Tax reform 'critically important' 02:083. Sexual harassment claimsVeteran journalist Mark Halperin sexually harassed women while he was in a powerful position at ABC News, according to five women who shared their previously undisclosed accounts with CNN and others who did not experience the alleged harassment personally, but were aware of it."During this period, I did pursue relationships with women that I worked with, including some junior to me," Halperin said in a statement to CNN Wednesday night. "I now understand from these accounts that my behavior was inappropriate and caused others pain. For that, I am deeply sorry and I apologize. Under the circumstances, I'm going to take a step back from my day-to-day work while I properly deal with this situation."Halperin, widely considered to be one of the preeminent political journalists, has, among other career highlights, been political director at ABC News. He also co-authored the bestselling book "Game Change," which was made into an HBO movie starring Julianne Moore as Sarah Palin.JUST WATCHED How NDAs silence sexual assault victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How NDAs silence sexual assault victims 07:464. Kenya presidential electionKenyans are voting today for a new president for the second time in three months, in an election that the opposition candidate, Raila Odinga, is boycotting -- a move that essentially guarantees victory for President Uhuru Kenyatta. Odinga called on his supporters to skip the vote too.This election is being rerun because Kenya's Supreme Court invalidated Kenyatta's August 8 victory, citing irregularities, following charges by Odinga that the results were electronically tampered with. But then Odinga turned around and dropped out of the race, saying no electoral reforms had been implemented for the October vote. Turnout today is expected to be low, and police have fired tear gas and water cannons at protesters in Kisumu, where the opposition has strong support.JUST WATCHED Kenya police, protesters clash on election day Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kenya police, protesters clash on election day 02:015. Store closingsCongrats, 2017. You just set a record, but it's not a good one. There have been more store closings this year than any year on record. Retailers have announced plans to shutter more than 6,700 stores in the US. That beats the previous record -- 6,163 closings -- set in 2008 during the financial meltdown. Everybody from Sears to Walgreens to Staples shed stores this year, and there are still two more months to go. So why are so many stores closing in the midst of a booming economy? Online shopping, of course. E-commerce giants like Amazon continue to gobble up market share from brick-and-mortar stores.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.RIP, FatsOne of rock 'n' roll's first hitmakers, Fats Domino cranked out a string of piano-based classics, like "Blueberry Hill." The music legend has died at age 89.JUST WATCHED Antoine 'Fats' Domino Jr. dies at 89 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Antoine 'Fats' Domino Jr. dies at 89 03:13Home deliveryNot content to just be shipping stuff to you, Amazon wants delivery people to be able to drop packages off inside your home too, 'cause there's nothing creepy about that.JUST WATCHED Late night lampoons new Amazon service Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Late night lampoons new Amazon service 00:50Is the Great Pumpkin next?If you have kids, just keep 'em away from the Air Force's Twitter feed which (briefly) denied the existence of Santa ClausLady luck is actually a queenQueen Elizabeth II has won over $8 million in prize money from her race horses over the years. Maybe she can start picking our lottery numbers for us, too?Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, arrive by carriage to the Royal Ascot horse race on June 15, 2016.Ride alongA police officer was called when no one came to pick up a little boy after school. Turns out it was his 8th birthday. The cop knew just what to do.Officer Darryl RobinsonNow that's what we call winningA Scottish woman bought a $60 ticket for a flight to Greece, then sat back and enjoyed all the perks, since she was the only passenger on the 189-seat plane.Karon GrieveNUMBERS OF THE DAY51The latest death toll in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria. Water-borne infections are driving this latest increase.Workers help clean up debris in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico.2The number of employees that Whitefish Energy, a Montana utility firm, had on the day Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico. Whitefish, which has ties to the Trump administration, won the multi-million dollar contract to restore the island's electrical grid.JUST WATCHED Power company lands $300M Puerto Rico contract Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Power company lands $300M Puerto Rico contract 02:53WHAT'S FOR LUNCH?JFK filesClassified government documents on John F. Kennedy's assassination are to be released today , although President Trump may block the release of certain files.JUST WATCHED What's in the JFK files? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What's in the JFK files? 02:33AND FINALLY ...Need for speedHere's a quick chat with a record-setting speed talker, because that's the only way you'll ever get to talk with him.