(CNN) There's a way you can save lives just by going on vacation . You'll need to bring an extra suitcase, though. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. ISIS2. PoliticsThere's a bipartisan deal "in principle" to restore the Obamacare subsidies that President Trump dumped last week . The deal would keep the subsidies -- paid to insurance companies to help keep premiums affordable for low-income Americans -- going for two years. In exchange, Republicans get more flexibility for states in how they implement Obamacare. And the President says he's on board with it all.Meanwhile, a US congresswoman accuses the President of making insensitive comments to a Gold Star widow . Florida Rep. Frederica Wilson, a Democrat, said Trump told the widow of Sgt. La David Johnson in a phone call that "he knew what he signed up for, but I guess it still hurt." A White House official said such conversations are private.Johnson was one of four American soldiers killed in an ambush in Niger. The Pentagon is investigating what happened , and the incident is putting a spotlight on the US mission in western Africa, where hundreds of US troops and a fleet of drones are used to battle several terror networks.JUST WATCHED Lawmaker infuriated over Trump's call to widow Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lawmaker infuriated over Trump's call to widow 01:283. RussiaYevgeny Prigozhin is a Russian oligarch dubbed "chef" to President Vladimir Putin by the Russian press. In 2002, he served caviar and truffles to President George W. Bush during a summit in St. Petersburg. Before that, he renovated a boat that became the city's most exclusive restaurant.JUST WATCHED Exclusive: Putin's 'chef,' the man behind the troll factory Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Exclusive: Putin's 'chef,' the man behind the troll factory 02:344. Travel banJUST WATCHED Federal judge blocks Trump Travel Ban 3.0 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Federal judge blocks Trump Travel Ban 3.0 02:055. NFLThe league and its players did announce support for criminal justice reform . Goodell, in a letter with Seattle Seahawks wide receiver Doug Baldwin, said the NFL could get behind a bill that would reduce mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent drug offenders. Goodell and Baldwin said such a bill (like one introduced two years ago ) would "address many of the issues on which our players have worked to raise awareness of over the last two seasons."JUST WATCHED Kaepernick's attorney speaks out on grievance Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kaepernick's attorney speaks out on grievance 01:16QUOTE OF THE DAYAs I was walking down, I heard rapid fire. And at first, I took cover. I felt a burning sensation. I went to go lift my pant leg up, and I saw the blood. That's when I called it in on my radio that shots have been fired."Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino security guard Jesus Campos, who is telling his story of what happened the night of the Las Vegas massacre for the first time today on "Ellen"BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Hashtag history"Me too" didn't start last weekend with Alyssa Milano. The rallying cry for survivors of sex assault and harassment actually has been around for 10 yearsJUST WATCHED #Metoo: Social media flooded with stories Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH #Metoo: Social media flooded with stories 04:43I know a guy ....The Green Bay Packers won't have Aaron Rodgers for the rest of the season, but fans are petitioning for the perfect replacement -- Colin Kaepernick.Take her with youAmazon's Alexa voice assistant is already in our homes and offices. Now, Garmin wants to put her in the car with youSuper starsThe sequel to "Mamma Mia" just upped its star power big time, now that it will feature Meryl Streep and Cher.What a countryWe might need to move to Australia, where Google drones will soon start dropping hot and tasty burritos into people's yards.NUMBER OF THE DAY$410 millionAND FINALLY ...One-man band