If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) What would a world without mosquitoes look like? A new medical breakthrough could be the key to that reality -- but is it really what we want? Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. United NationsIt was an awkward day for the United States at the UN General Assembly in New York. President Trump gave a speech pushing his "America-first" worldview , saying the US "will always choose independence and cooperation over global governance, control and domination." He was met with laughter when he boasted about his administration's "extraordinary progress," and when he listed off his diplomatic "friends," North Korea got an early mention, while Germany got criticized and other allies got left out. Trump also praised Poland just a day after the European Commission had decided to sue Warsaw for violating the independence of its judiciary2. Brett KavanaughWe have a timeline for the rest of the week's proceedings, and it's all happening fast . The Senate Judiciary Committee has scheduled its vote on Brett Kavanaugh's nomination for Friday morning at 9:30 ET, the day after the panel is set to hear testimony from Kavanaugh and Christine Blasey Ford, who has accused him of sexual assault decades ago. Not everyone is happy with the sequence. GOP Sen. Lisa Murkowski yesterday suggested Deborah Ramirez, a second accuser, should speak before a Senate panel about her claims of inappropriate sexual behavior by Kavanaugh, also years ago. Remember, the GOP controls the chamber, 51 seats to 49, so it can only afford to lose so many votes and still put Kavanaugh on the Supreme Court.3. Bill CosbyAfter more than a decade, two trials and dozens of accusers, Bill Cosby's fate is finally sealed : A judge yesterday sentenced the 81-year-old to three to 10 years in state prison for drugging and sexually assaulting a woman in 2004. Cosby faced a maximum 10 years after prosecutors and defense attorneys agreed to merge the three counts of his conviction into one for sentencing. Cosby also will be classified as a " sexually violent predator ," which requires registration and counseling for life. Several of Cosby's many accusers said they felt relief or closure after seeing him finally put behind bars.JUST WATCHED This is where Bill Cosby is going to prison Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This is where Bill Cosby is going to prison 00:454. ChinaJUST WATCHED Trump's trade war with China just got bigger Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump's trade war with China just got bigger 02:545. EbolaEbola has reared its ugly head again in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The virus has killed at least 69 people in the country's northern region, but with dozens of cases yet to be confirmed, that number is probably closer to 100. The World Health Organization is concerned about a "perfect storm" of factors -- armed attacks in the region, movement of people and community distrust -- that could keep the virus spreading and stop people from seeking treatment. Congo is in the midst of a long-term humanitarian crisis that includes intermittent armed conflict, which means other health epidemics, including cholera, measles and polio, are flourishing there.JUST WATCHED The death of Ebola? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The death of Ebola? 01:32BREAKFAST BROWSEDunkin' Donuts is changing its name to just 'Dunkin''Little girl named Florence collects baby supplies for Florence survivorsJUST WATCHED 4-year-old Florence helps victims of the hurricane that shares her name Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 4-year-old Florence helps victims of the hurricane that shares her name 00:48A beluga whale was spotted in the River ThamesShockwaves from WWII raids reached the edge of space and changed the Earth's atmosphereOK, it is ENTIRELY too early in the morning to consider the cosmic consequences of this informationDoes microwaving food cause nutrient loss?Photos: The best ways to cook veggies to boost nutrition The best ways to cook veggies to maximize nutrition – What's the best way to cook your veggies to maximize their nutritional value? While methods like steaming are better than boiling, the answer depends on the vegetable. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: The best ways to cook veggies to boost nutrition Steaming is best, especially for broccoli – As a general rule, keep cooking time, temperature and the amount of liquid to a minimum when cooking vegetables. That's why steaming is one of the best ways to maximize nutrients. It turns out that's especially true for broccoli. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: The best ways to cook veggies to boost nutrition Microwaving is also a winner – When in doubt, microwave. That's because microwaving uses little to no water, and can heat the vegetable quickly, thus preserving nutrients such as vitamin C that break down when heated. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: The best ways to cook veggies to boost nutrition Saute, don't fry – Sauteing in a bit of healthy cooking oil, such as extra-virgin olive oil, is a great way to cook many vegetables. Not only does it maximize flavor, but the addition of olive oil "appears to increase the absorption of phytonutrients like phenols and carotenes," says Elaine Magee, author and corporate dietitian for Albertsons Companies. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: The best ways to cook veggies to boost nutrition Roasting and baking – Roasting and baking is another healthy way to fix your vegetables. Again, adding some healthy fat such as olive oil is a great idea, Magee said, as many of the vitamins and nutrients in vegetables are fat soluble, meaning your body absorbs them better in the presence of fat. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: The best ways to cook veggies to boost nutrition 'Griddling' is great – Contrary to grilling, which normally involves some sort of charcoal, "griddling" uses a pan with distinctive raised edges and is normally done on the stove or in the oven.Vegetables such as asparagus, griddled with a tiny bit of olive oil, can develop intense flavor and be quite healthy. It's also an especially good choice for green beans, broccoli, celery, Swiss chard and onions. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: The best ways to cook veggies to boost nutrition It's no surprise that boiling ends up on the bottom of the vegetable nutritional preparation pile, because studies have shown for years the process leaches nutrients into the water. (That's OK if you're eating the broth with the veggies.) One exception: Carrots. Boiling and steaming i ncrease the levels of beta carotene. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: The best ways to cook veggies to boost nutrition Wait to wash – To preserve water-soluble vitamins and minerals, wait to wash until right before you cut. You want those nutrients to stay locked in. Avoid soaking your vegetables, as that can remove key nutrients, such as vitamin C. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: The best ways to cook veggies to boost nutrition To cut or not to cut? – Cooking vegetables whole preserves the water-soluble vitamins and nutrients. When that's not practical, be sure to cut them into large, uniform pieces that will cook evenly. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: The best ways to cook veggies to boost nutrition Cut, cook and use olive oil – Studies show that cutting and heating tomatoes opens up the cell wall of the fruit , which allows greater access to the health benefits of lycopene. Adding a bit of healthy fat, such as olive oil, also helps. Hide Caption 10 of 10TODAY'S NUMBER€300, or about $350That's the fine a man had to pay for sexually assaulting a woman on a bus near Paris. He is the first man to be prosecuted under France's new anti-catcalling law.TODAY'S QUOTE"I mean, how many 15-year-olds handle a lot of alcohol, you know, 36 years ago? When it wasn't that common, by the way. ... Thirty-six years ago, it wasn't that common for 15-year-olds to be at booze parties."GOP US Rep. Kevin Cramer, suggesting the allegations of sexual and physical assault against Brett Kavanaugh, even if they're true, should not disqualify him from a Supreme Court seatJUST WATCHED Rep. Cramer: Women in white looked silly (2017) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rep. Cramer: Women in white looked silly (2017) 01:13AND FINALLYTheremins are out of this world