(CNN) Hurricane Florence's rainfall has stopped, but its "nightmare" destruction isn't over yet.On Wednesday, thousands of evacuees were urged to stay away from their homes, some rivers kept rising, and the threat of floods remained high in North and South Carolina. Many roads remained closed, and thousands of people lacked power."Our state took a gut punch and our state is still reeling," North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper told Trump, calling the storm "epic, disastrous and widespread.""We've got a long road ahead in the days, in the months and even years ahead to make sure we build back."The President said the federal government would do everything necessary to ensure recovery. "America grieves with you and our hearts break for you," Trump said. "God bless you. We will never forget your loss. To all those impacted by this terrible storm, our entire American family is with you and ready to help. You will recover."Later he traveled to Conway, South Carolina, where Gov. Henry McMaster met the President as he arrived.Also across the ravaged region:• Some 2,600 National Guard men and women are deployed across the state.• About 800 power outages have occurred in South Carolina.• North Carolina farms lost• South Carolina cotton farmers also were hit hard. Soaked ground could damage peanut crops, and hemp stems were reported blown over, the state said. • Rivers are still rising in South Carolina and will continue throughout the week, the state's Emergency Response Team said Wednesday morning.• Some 2,600 National Guard men and women are deployed across the state.• About 800 power outages have occurred in South Carolina.• North Carolina farms lost an estimated 3.4 million poultry birds and 5,500 pigs , officials said.• South Carolina cotton farmers also were hit hard. Soaked ground could damage peanut crops, and hemp stems were reported blown over, the state said.Among the dead were two detainees who died in a Horry County Sheriff's Office transportation van in South Carolina floodwaters.Much work remains in the recovery efforts, officials said.Crews must work to reopen roads, restore power, contain hazardous materials and restore medical services, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Brock Long said at Cherry Point.Rivers cresting, some twiceNorth Carolina's Cape Fear River reached 61 feet near Fayetteville on Wednesday, putting thousands in harm's way.Toward the coast, Brunswick County Sheriff John Ingram said in a Facebook video that officers are going door-to-door in the Waccamaw River floodplain areas to encourage residents to consider evacuating and to get ready in case it becomes necessary.Many were outside enjoying the beautiful weather Wednesday, he said. But already the water is 3 feet higher than normal."We want to make sure everyone has adequate time to evacuate if these waters continue to rise and crest at the forecasted levels," he said.Floodwaters rose and then receded in Conway, South Carolina, but a second cresting is expected.Greenville News reporter Gabe Cavallaro tweeted photos comparing a flooded street that had since returned to normal."Recognize this place?" he tweeted. "Amazing. Just days before this #ConwaySC neighborhood was completely underwater - now floodwaters from #Florence have receded and the road is back open again. But city officials warn that it won't last long, as levels in the Waccamaw River creep higher."Recognize this place? Amazing. Just days before this #ConwaySC neighborhood was completely underwater - now floodwaters from #Florence have receded and the road is back open again. But city officials warn that it won't last long, as levels in the Waccamaw River creep higher pic.twitter.com/jqw8SQsRgr — Gabe Cavallaro (@gabe_cavallaro) September 19, 2018City spokesman Taylor Newell said the waters could be "4 feet higher" than when Hurricane Matthew struck in 2016."We are cautioning everyone not to be overconfident," City Administrator Adam Emrick said. "The water is going to come back up. We are worried about Friday."Trump met with first responders at the Horry County Emergency Operations Center."It's going to get rough for South Carolina," he warned ahead of the expected cresting of rivers."You're going to have a rebuilding process, and we are behind you from day one," Trump said, calling this the "calm before the storm, because you're going to have a lot of water."Some returning home to devastationOn Tuesday, after days of hoping for the best, Billy and Rita Sanderson waded in knee-high murky waters to see Florence's storm damage to their home of nearly 30 years.Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Maura Walbourne sits in the front of a canoe as she looks inside her flooded home in Conway, South Carolina, on Sunday, September 23. Hide Caption 1 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A home in Conway, South Carolina, is inundated by floodwaters on Wednesday, September 26, one week after Hurricane Florence. Hide Caption 2 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Taylor James navigates floodwaters in a boat in front of Trinity United Methodist Church in Conway, South Carolina on Wednesday, September 26. Hide Caption 3 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Floodwaters from the Neuse River cover part of Kinston, North Carolina, on Monday, September 24. Hide Caption 4 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Brian Terry looks at the floodwaters outside his home in Brittons Neck, South Carolina, on Saturday, September 22. Hide Caption 5 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath An officer with the South Carolina State Highway Patrol marks the water level of Highway 22 on Saturday. Hide Caption 6 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Avery Singleton takes a boat to Pine Grove Baptist Church in Brittons Neck, South Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 7 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath President Donald Trump hands out food at Temple Baptist Church, where food and other supplies were being distributed Wednesday, September 19, as part of Hurricane Florence recovery efforts in New Bern, North Carolina. Hide Caption 8 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Trump shakes hands as he visits the New Bern church on Wednesday. Hide Caption 9 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A woman in Currie, North Carolina, sits on a damaged road surrounded by floodwaters on Tuesday, September 18. Hide Caption 10 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Ronnie Gainey pulls an electric guitar from his flooded home in Darlington, South Carolina. Hide Caption 11 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Two people near Wallace, South Carolina, sit on the top of a vehicle that was caught in flooding on Monday, September 17. Hide Caption 12 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Rescue personnel help people evacuate a flooded area in Spring Lake, North Carolina. Hide Caption 13 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Floodwaters surround a trailer in Pollocksville, North Carolina, on September 17. Hide Caption 14 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Pollocksville resident Willie Schubert cradles his dog, Lucky, atop a stranded van as they await help from the US Coast Guard on September 17. Hide Caption 15 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Floodwaters are seen on North Carolina's Emerald Isle on Sunday, September 16. Hide Caption 16 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Chicken farm buildings are inundated with floodwaters near Trenton, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 17 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Panicked dogs left caged by their owner are rescued by volunteer Ryan Nichols in Leland, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 18 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A church is partially submerged in Richlands, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 19 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Coast Guard member Blake Gwinn helps Josephine Horne escape her flooded home in Columbus County, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 20 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A large tree lies on top of a mobile home in Newport, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 21 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath John Hendren leads horses to safety after the US Coast Guard helped cut up a fallen tree that had trapped the animals in a flooded field in Lumberton, North Carolina. Hide Caption 22 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Tony Thompson stands in the wreckage of his mobile home as Florence moved inland over Newport, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 23 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A woman and a young girl walk down a flooded road in Pollocksville on September 16. Hide Caption 24 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Floodwaters inundate parts of Trenton, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 25 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Members of the Coast Guard help a stranded motorist in floodwaters in Lumberton, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 26 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A man peers from his flooded home in Lumberton on September 16. Hide Caption 27 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Members of a search-and-rescue team help an elderly resident onto a bus as they evacuate an assisted living facility in Fayetteville, North Carolina, on Saturday, September 15. Hide Caption 28 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A member of the US Coast Guard checks on homes after Florence hit Newport, North Carolina, on September 15 . Hide Caption 29 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A neighbor takes photos of a boat smashed against a car garage near the Neuse River in New Bern on Saturday. Hide Caption 30 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A truck is submerged in floodwaters in Jacksonville, North Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 31 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Joseph Eudi surveys debris and storm damage at a home in New Bern, North Carolina, on September 15. Hide Caption 32 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A woman calls for help at her flooded residence as Florence brought large amounts of rain and floodwaters to Lumberton, North Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 33 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath People wait in line to fill gas cans at a gas station that was damaged when Florence hit Wilmington, North Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 34 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A baseball field on Mill Creek Road is filled with floodwater after Florence hit Newport, North Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 35 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Mike Pollack searches for a drain in the yard of his flooded waterfront home in Wilmington, North Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 36 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Floodwaters from Florence inundate the town of Engelhard, North Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 37 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Ray Baca of Wilmington, North Carolina, checks his phone as he sits on a bench. Hide Caption 38 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A sailboat lifted by storm surge leans against a building at Bridgepointe Marina in New Bern, North Carolina, on Saturday, a day after Florence's landfall. Hide Caption 39 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Kim Adams wades through floodwaters surrounding her home in Southport, North Carolina, on September 15. Hide Caption 40 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Volunteers help rescue three children from a flooded home in James City, North Carolina, on Friday, September 14. Hide Caption 41 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Russ Lewis covers his eyes from wind and sand in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, on September 14. Hide Caption 42 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Volunteers help rescue people from their flooded homes in New Bern on September 14. Hide Caption 43 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Waves crash into the Second Avenue Pier in Myrtle Beach on September 14. Hide Caption 44 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath The storm leaves a tree toppled in New Bern on September 14. Hide Caption 45 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Soldiers from the North Carolina National Guard reinforce a low-lying area with sandbags in Lumberton, North Carolina, on September 14. Hide Caption 46 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Robert Simmons Jr. and his kitten are rescued from floodwaters in New Bern on September 14. Hide Caption 47 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Teddie Davis checks on one of the New Bern's signature bear statues toppled by the storm on September 14. Another one of the bears, in the background, ended up in the middle of a downtown street. Hide Caption 48 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Rising waters threaten downtown Washington, North Carolina, as the Pamlico River overruns its banks on September 14. Hide Caption 49 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath An abandoned van sits on a flooded road near New Bern on September 14. Hide Caption 50 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A boat sits wedged in trees in Oriental, North Carolina, near New Bern, on September 14. Hide Caption 51 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Members of a Federal Emergency Management Agency team from California search a flooded neighborhood in Fairfield Harbour, North Carolina, on September 14. Hide Caption 52 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Rescue workers attempt to remove a giant tree that fell onto a house in Wilmington, North Carolina, on September 14. Two people died when the tree collapsed -- among the first storm-related deaths due to Hurricane Florence. Hide Caption 53 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Electric poles that snapped in half sway from their wires in Wilmington on September 14. Hide Caption 54 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Lee Casteen, left, and Try Hinton use a chainsaw to clear a tree blocking a road in Wilmington on September 14. Hide Caption 55 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Rescue workers help a woman and her dog from a flooded house in James City on September 14. Hide Caption 56 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Michael Nelson floats in a boat fashioned from a metal tub and fishing floats after the Neuse River flooded September 13 in New Bern. Hide Caption 57 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Powerful winds and waves destroy portions of a boat dock and boardwalk in Atlantic Beach on September 13. Hide Caption 58 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Residents wade through streets flooded by the Neuse River in New Bern on September 13. Hide Caption 59 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Astronaut Alexander Gerst posted this photo on Twitter of Hurricane Florence saying, "It's chilling, even from space." Gerst is aboard the International Space Station. Hide Caption 60 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Evacuees take refuge at Burgaw Middle School in Burgaw, North Carolina, on September 12. Hide Caption 61 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Marge Brown says goodbye to her father, George Brown, before his evacuation from a health care home in Morehead City, North Carolina, on September 12. Hide Caption 62 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Workers take boats out of the water in Wanchese Harbor in Wanchese, North Carolina, on September 12 as the Outer Banks prepares for Florence. Hide Caption 63 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Astronaut Gerst also posted this photo to Twitter on September 12, saying, "Watch out, America! #HurricaneFlorence is so enormous, we could only capture her with a super wide-angle lens from the @Space_Station, 400 km directly above the eye. Get prepared on the East Coast, this is a no-kidding nightmare coming for you." Hide Caption 64 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Jeff Bryant, left, and James Evans board the windows of a business in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, on Tuesday, September 11. Hide Caption 65 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath People fill sandbags in Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina, on September 11. Hide Caption 66 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Both lanes of Interstate 26 flow westbound in North Charleston, South Carolina, toward Columbia as people evacuate inland on September 11. Hide Caption 67 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Laura Gretch holds Frances, a Chihuahua mix, as she helps unload cats and dogs arriving at the Humane Rescue Alliance in Washington from Norfolk, Virginia, on September 11. Hide Caption 68 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Veronica Gallardo and Robert Kelly place a plastic tarp over an American flag inside the Casemate Museum at Fort Monroe in Hampton, Virginia, on September 11. Hide Caption 69 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A man eyes a store's bare bread shelves as people stock up on food in Myrtle Beach on September 11. Hide Caption 70 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Chuck Ledford, left, watches cartoons on a phone with his daughter Misty as they seek shelter at Emma B. Trask Middle School in Wilmington, North Carolina, on Tuesday, September 11. Hide Caption 71 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Scott Fleenor, bottom, and Jeremiah Trendell board over the windows of a business in Myrtle Beach. Hide Caption 72 of 72They passed a car buried in floodwaters and called out to see if anyone was in it. When no one answered, they turned their attention to their white house with dark shutters -- partially submerged in the water in front of them."That thing is a total loss," Billy Sanderson told CNN affiliate WNCT, his voice breaking. "It's just hard to explain. You're going to have to start over, that's all we can do."Florence slammed into the North Carolina coast last week as a Category 1 hurricane, and has killed at least 36 people, authorities said. Of those, 27 died in North Carolina, including in Duplin County, where the Sandersons live. Eight others died in South Carolina, and an additional person was killed in a storm-related tornado in Virginia.Governor to evacuees: Don't go back homeCooper warned residents that the rain may have subsided, but the flooding danger is far from over. He asked evacuees to stay where they are and not return home just yet."To the approximately 10,000 people staying in our shelters and the countless more who are staying with friends and families or in hotels, I know it was hard to leave home and it's even harder to wait," Cooper said. "Please ... do not try to return home yet."Evacuees from Pender and Brunswick counties should especially not go home due to flooding, he said.More than 800 roads were closed across North Carolina on Wednesday, officials said, and about 172,000 homes and businesses were still without power.Swollen rivers mean danger remainsFayetteville City Manager Doug Hewett said he's concerned that with the rain gone, residents may become complacent and try to get back home, which could be dangerous.Scattered storms are possible this evening, bringing the risk of of additional flash flooding. There are currently 14 river gauges that are at Major Flood Stage. View the details below of river gauge levels & visit https://t.co/27YownooTc to see up to date river flooding info. pic.twitter.com/elJ5KpCsEb — NC Emergency Managem (@NCEmergency) September 18, 2018"We have 12,000 residents who could be in harm's way if the river continues to rise," he said.Hewett said the Cape Fear River could crest to its highest historic level -- about 62 feet -- by Wednesday."We had significant rainfall ... and we're still anticipating that some of the tributaries are draining into the upper Cape Fear. And if that happens, it will continue to rise until it crests," he said.Wilmington was the epicenter of Florence's destruction. Rainfall totals of 26.58 inches submerged much of the city, cutting it off from the rest of the state. It will have its wettest year in 140 years of record-keeping. More than 86 inches of rain have fallen so far. On average, the city gets about 43 inches by this time of the year.In Lumberton, where residents scrambled to plug the levee system , parts of Interstate 95 will remain closed until the Lumber River drops below 21 feet. That might not happen until next week, said Corey Walters, the city's deputy director of public works.But it's impossible to say how deep the Lumber River is now, because the official river gauge stopped working a few days ago. Walters estimated the current depth is about 25 feet.