If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Need some inspiration this morning? An Indonesian teen has been rescued after drifting at sea on a little fishing boat for 49 days .Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.1. ROD ROSENSTEIN2. BRETT KAVANAUGHJUST WATCHED Kavanaugh: I was a virgin during high school Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kavanaugh: I was a virgin during high school 01:333. SOUTH KOREASouth Korean leader Moon Jae-In and President Donald Trump celebrate a trade signing pact Monday.4. FLORENCE FLOODINGYes, Florence is still making life hell for people in the Carolinas. Authorities in Georgetown County, South Carolina, are urging thousands to evacuate ahead of historic flooding in the area. The county is positioned at the intersection of three rivers, all swollen from Florence's deluges. Parts of Georgetown County will see at least 10 feet of flooding, forecasters say. Key words: at least. The flooding is expected to begin today and will last through the weekend. Officials worry that, among other crippling infrastructural damage, the flooding could wash away portions of bridges connecting some of the rivers.JUST WATCHED See Florence's destruction in the Carolinas Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See Florence's destruction in the Carolinas 01:255. DALLAS POLICE FIRINGAmber Guyger, the police officer charged with manslaughter in the fatal shooting of Botham Shem Jean inside his Dallas apartment, was fired from the department Monday. Dallas police reportedly told the Jean family attorney the termination took some time because the department had to consider the effects it would have on the criminal allegations against Guyger. In the criminal case, the Dallas County district attorney has said a grand jury could charge Guyger with a stiffer crime than manslaughter. Guyger, who is white, shot Jean, who is black, on September 6 after entering his apartment. She said she thought it was her apartment , and that Jean was an intruder.TODAY'S QUOTE"We often see an increase in calls when sexual assault stories are in the news."BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.One contestant confessed her love for another contestant on "The Bachelor Vietnam," and now they've gone viralThe American version The American version could only wish for such dramaWeight Watchers is changing its name to WWWonder Woman would like a word.How Cheburashka, the iconic 'Soviet Mickey Mouse,' achieved international fameFun fact of the day: Fun fact of the day: His name is derived from the archaic Russian verb cheburakhnutsya, which means "to topple."Sears is in serious financial trouble, CEO saysWho doesn't remember getting lost in a Sears and trying to find their moms among the 5,000 refrigerators? Ah, simpler times. Which is sad. Who doesn't remember getting lost in a Sears and trying to find their moms among the 5,000 refrigerators? Ah, simpler times.HAPPENING LATERBill Cosby sentencingThe comedian, 81, will have a final opportunity to make his case to the court today before a Pennsylvania judge sentences him on three counts of aggravated indecent assault in the 2004 drugging and sexual assault of Andrea Constand. Prosecutors have asked the judge to sentence him to five to 10 years in prison.JUST WATCHED Bill Cosby sentencing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bill Cosby sentencing 01:50TODAY'S NUMBER45%The percentage of Americans who say they have a favorable view of the Republican Party , according to a new Gallup Poll. That's the highest favorable view of the party since January 2011.AND FINALLYIt's just a giant cat, guys