(CNN) Bill Cosby, the former beloved TV dad and one of the most recognizable entertainers in America, woke up Wednesday in his new home: an 7-by-13 foot cell with a narrow cot and a metal toilet.It was his first day of what will be a lengthy stay in a Pennsylvania state prison.But the 81-year-old's legal challenges are far from over. How long will he remain behind bars? What will that stay be like? And what about his potential appeals, or the civil defamation lawsuits against him?Here are six things we know about Cosby's immediate future -- in prison, in the courtroom and in American pop culture.He's getting new boots, and chocolate puddingCosby arrived Tuesday night to Pennsylvania's State Correctional Institute at Phoenix. The prison in Collegeville is about 30 miles northwest of Philadelphia and not far from the Montgomery County courthouse where he was convicted.Cosby got one of the SCI Phoenix facility's 3,830 beds to start serving his sentence. The Department of Corrections said he was also given a few basics, including a uniform, toiletries, linens, towels and state-issued boots.A cell at SCI Phoenix state prison.He is being housed in a single cell -- 7 by 13 feet -- in a unit adjacent to the infirmary, the prison said. He will be allowed phone calls and visitation in accordance with policy, as well as the opportunity to exercise as he goes through an evaluation process."We are taking all of the necessary precautions to ensure Mr. Cosby's safety and general welfare in our institution," said Corrections Secretary John Wetzel. "The long-term goal is for him to be placed in the general population to receive the programming required during his incarceration."Cosby's first prison meal at SCI Phoenix was baked meatballs and rice, green beans, mashed potatoes and gravy, said Lisa Durand, spokeswoman for SCI Phoenix. Lunch on Thursday included a half-cup of gelatin, like the Jell-O dessert Cosby once hawked in TV ads. Saturday's menu has chocolate pudding.The prison will accommodate his age and health issuesCosby's attorneys had asked the judge to sentence him to house arrest because they said prison would be tough for Cosby, who is elderly, legally blind and famous.Worden said that new inmates go through an evaluation process to determine which prison in the state system is best suited for them. They evaluate the inmate's needs, programs and health issues in deciding where to house them, she said.That could mean Cosby remains at SCI Phoenix or is moved to another of the state's prisons.Bill Cosby's mugshot, taken at Montgomery County Correctional Facility on Tuesday, September 25.Amy Worden, press secretary for the state Department of Corrections, said the Pennsylvania prison system has geriatric inmates, and most of their prisons, including SCI Phoenix, are compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act. There are also varying degrees of medical facilities across the system."The Department of Corrections has had high-profile inmates before, and I'm sure we'll have them again, so it's not that much out of the ordinary. He'll be treated like other inmates," Worden said.As part of Cosby's sentence, he was determined to be a "sexually violent predator," a designation that requires him to take sex offender counseling at least once a month. In SCI Phoenix, he will find programs on that topic.Cosby spokesperson Andrew Wyatt said Cosby's family is hoping that SCI Phoenix will be his final prison location, as the facility is new and he can be comfortable there, away from the general population. The prison is also only a 30- to 45-minute drive from Montgomery County, where Cosby has a home.He could be released in three yearsCosby entered the prison Tuesday to begin a sentence that will last at least three years and no more than 10 years.He was found guilty of three counts of aggravated indecent assault, each of which carries a maximum of 10 years in prison. But Montgomery County court Judge Steven O'Neill announced Monday that the charges had been merged into one because they all stem from the same event.O'Neill sentenced Cosby to three to 10 years because, he said, "No one is above the law, and no one should be treated differently or disproportionally.""This was a serious crime," O'Neill added. "Mr. Cosby, this has all circled back to you. The day has come, the time has come."After three years, Cosby will be eligible to appear before a parole board and make his case to be paroled. At that point, he could be released from prison and allowed to serve out the rest of his 10-year sentence under supervision in the community, said the Pennsylvania Board of Probation and Parole"Parole is a privilege, not a right; it is not automatic or guaranteed. It may be revoked for violations of the conditions of parole or for new criminal convictions," the board writes.Cosby was also ordered to pay a fine of $25,000 plus the costs of prosecution -- a total of $43,611 -- as part of the sentence.He intends to appealCosby's attorneys have repeatedly said they plan to file an appeal in the criminal case."A second opinion isn't unreasonable, and as you know he intends to seek one," attorney Joseph P. Green said.They have 10 days from the sentencing to file a notice of appeal. It's not clear what specific issues Cosby would challenge, but there are several possible focal points based on their previous criticisms.One issue is the possible bias of Judge O'Neill. A defense motion earlier this month argued that O'Neill had a "nasty" personal conflict against the prior district attorney Bruce Castor.The issue is important because in 2016, Castor testified there was a binding agreement that Cosby could not be prosecuted, but O'Neill disagreed, ruling the case could go forward.Bill Cosby was sentenced to 3 to 10 years in state prison on Tuesday.O'Neill denied the defense's motion to recuse himself, saying it was not filed in a timely fashion and had no merit."This Court is confident that it has and can continue to assess this case in an impartial manner, free of personal bias or interest in the outcome," O'Neill wrote in the order.Another possible line of appeal is O'Neill's decision regarding " prior bad acts " witnesses to testify at trial. Although the assault charges only dealt with Constand, O'Neill allowed five other women to testify that Cosby had incapacitated and assaulted them in prior incidents.Prosecutors said these witnesses showed that Cosby had a common pattern or scheme in his assault of Constand. But Cosby's representatives said that O'Neill's decision to allow their testimony unfairly prejudiced the jury.Finally, Cosby spokeswoman Ebonee Benson read aloud a statement from Cosby's wife Camille that challenged the legitimacy of a recorded phone call between Constand's mother and Cosby. Benson alleged that an audio analysis showed the recording had been doctored.Cosby's defense team will be filing a motion "seeking immediate relief for the prosecution's use of this falsified evidence," Benson said. "The DA's use of this falsified audio clip at trial is deeply prejudicial, yet it represents just one of many issues that resulted in the denial of Mr. Cosby's right to a fair trial."He still faces several civil lawsuitsBecause of statute of limitations laws, the vast majority of assault accusations against Cosby could not be prosecuted in criminal court. Still, several women have sued him in civil court.Three are defamation cases in which accusers say Cosby defamed them as liars, and two are civil assault lawsuits.The most prominent was brought by Tamara Green in federal court in Massachusetts. Green, who says Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted her in 1970, filed a suit in December 2014. She accuses Cosby and his team of lawyers and representatives of defaming her and calling her a liar for speaking out about the alleged assault.Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Bill Cosby is taken away in handcuffs after he received a prison sentence of three to 10 years on Tuesday, September 25. In April, the entertainer had been found guilty of drugging and sexually assaulting Andrea Constand 14 years ago. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby, shown here in 1969, began his career in New York nightclubs as a standup comedian. His clean-cut style became a career mainstay. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby feeds one of his children in the mid-1960s. Cosby first made his name with his comedic storytelling, often based on his childhood experiences. In 2011, SPIN magazine put "To Russell, My Brother, Whom I Slept With" at the top of its 40 Greatest Comedy Albums of All Time list. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby won three Emmys for his portrayal of Alexander Scott, an Oxford-educated spy who travels undercover with his tennis-playing partner, Kelly Robinson (Robert Culp) in "I Spy," which aired on NBC from 1965 to 1968. Cosby was the first African-American to star in an American dramatic series. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon In 1972, Cosby starred in "The New Bill Cosby Show," a variety program. Among his guests was Ray Charles, whose version of "Night Time Is the Right Time" would play such a standout role on "The Cosby Show" years later. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon In 1972, Cosby helped create "Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids," a Saturday morning TV series that ran for more than a decade. It later became a 2004 live-action film starring Kenan Thompson as Fat Albert. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Bill – Cosby's biggest TV hit, "The Cosby Show," premiered in 1984. Phylicia Rashad played his wife, Clair Huxtable. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon After "The Cosby Show" was another sitcom, "Cosby," which aired from 1996 to 2000. Cosby played retired airline agent Hilton Lucas. The show also starred T'Keyah Crystal Keymáh. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon President Bill Clinton chats with Cosby and TV correspondent Linda Ellerbee at a 1996 conference on children's television. Cosby, who has a doctorate in education, is a strong believer in using television to send educational messages. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon In 1997, Cosby suffered the loss of his son, Ennis, who was fatally shot on the side of an Los Angeles freeway. Cosby's series' "Little Bill" used the phrase "Hello, friend" -- Ennis' regular greeting -- in tribute to his son. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby shares a laugh with baseball great Hank Aaron after they both received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2002. The medal is America's highest civilian award. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby and comedian Jerry Seinfeld embrace in 2009 at the annual awarding of the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor. Cosby declined the prize twice before accepting. His mother read Twain to him as a child -- a huge influence on his storytelling. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby accepts the Marian Anderson Award in 2010 at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby speaks at the 20th anniversary of the Rev. Al Sharpton's organization, the National Action Network, in 2011. In recent years, Cosby has been outspoken on the subjects of poverty, family and responsibility in the black community. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby speaks in 2012 during the 100th anniversary celebration of the Beverly Hills Hotel & Bungalows supporting the Motion Picture & Television Fund and the American Comedy Fund. The comedian is active in several charitable causes. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby performs at the Buell Theater in Denver in 2015. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Andrew Wyatt, a Cosby spokesman, raises his fist as Cosby exits a courthouse in Norristown, Pennsylvania, in June 2017. Cosby was facing three counts of aggravated indecent assault from a 2004 case involving Andrea Constand, an employee at his alma mater, Temple University. But it ended in a mistrial after a jury was unable to come to a unanimous decision. Constand was the first of more than 50 women who have accused Cosby of sexual misconduct. Cosby has denied wrongdoing. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon The jury in Cosby's retrial found the TV icon guilty on all three counts in April. Hide Caption 18 of 18Six other women -- Therese Serignese, Linda Traitz, Louisa Moritz, Barbara Bowman, Joan Tarshis and Angela Leslie -- have joined that suit.Attorney Joseph Cammarata said the case was stayed, or put on hold, until the conclusion of Cosby's criminal case. Now that Cosby has been sentenced, Cammarata told CNN that he's now in a position to lift that stay and move forward with the case.One other defamation suit, filed by Katherine McKee, was dismissed by a federal judge in February. She has said she plans to appeal the decision.Finally, Cosby faces at least two open civil assault lawsuits. Judy Huth, who says Cosby sexually assaulted her at the Playboy Mansion when she was 15, sued in December 2014. Chloe Goins sued in May 2016."Based on experience in civil suits filed against inmates in our custody, most of the proceedings are done through video conferencing," said Worden, the Department of Corrections spokeswoman.And his legacy is forever tarnishedCosby's groundbreaking entertainment career, including his roles on "I Spy" and "The Cosby Show," has largely been erased from the public eye in the past few years.Re-runs of "The Cosby Show," long a staple of cable TV, were taken off the airwaves as the accusations piled up, and now are only available on Amazon Prime TV.Universities that granted him honorary degrees have rescinded them, including Notre Dame and Yale . Temple University, where Cosby sat on the Board of Trustees for 32 years until his resignation in 2014, rescinded his honorary degree after his conviction.In a column for CNN, film critic Gene Seymour wrote that Cosby's conviction in April was a final blow to the battered reputation of an American icon."One of the most ecumenically beloved entertainers of the last century will be known for the rest of his life as a sexual predator," he wrote. "And for many of us it may take the rest of our lives to unpack the ramifications."So how does Cosby feel? The entertainer toured as recently as 2015 and said in a TV interview before his 2017 mistrial that he would like to eventually return to doing comedy."I want to get back to the laughter and enjoyment of things that I've written and things that I perform on stage," he said."I know the side that I'm on and the side that I'm hoping for, and after that, there's more work to be done," he added. "But I still feel that I have an awful lot to offer in terms of my writing, in terms of my performance."