(CNN) Ever get a hankering for a burger on the back nine? Then, this drone is for you . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White HouseWhodunit? Or rather, who wrote it? It's the only question that matters this morning, as Washington tries to solve a stunning political mystery: Who is the "senior official" in the Trump administration who wrote an anonymous New York Times editorial that slams Donald Trump's "amorality" and decision-making and claims to be part of an internal "resistance" force dedicated to thwarting his worst impulses? The bombshell op-ed, landing the same week as excerpts from Bob Woodward's new book , has reportedly heightened the already sky-high level of paranoia at the White House.After the op-ed went out, Trump came out swinging. He bashed it and its writer as "gutless" and blasted the Times for publishing it anonymously. Later, he took his displeasure to Twitter -- "TREASON?" he wondered -- and demanded that the Times must "turn him/her over" to the government. CNN's Stephen Collinson says no matter what happens, Trump's presidency will never be the same . And Chris Cillizza says these 13 people could be the mystery authorCooper: This is not, by any means, normalCooper: This is not, by any means, normal 05:57Cooper: This is not, by any means, normal2. Supreme Court confirmation hearingWe heard more from Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh during the second day of his confirmation hearings, but we didn't necessarily learn more about his views during a raucous (read: more protesters ) 12-hour session. He rebuffed Democratic senators' attempts to get him to stray into political areas, so he wouldn't say if a sitting president must respond to a subpoena or if a president could pardon himself or herself. On abortion, he did say that Roe v. Wade is settled precedent . The hearing resumes this morning.JUST WATCHED Sen. Harris pushes Kavanaugh on abortion Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sen. Harris pushes Kavanaugh on abortion 00:453. IndiaIndia's top court struck down a colonial-era law criminalizing consensual gay sex. The law, imposed during the days of British rule, penalized sex that was considered "against the order of nature." After the verdict was announced, crowds gathered outside the court erupted in jubilant cheers. It's a huge victory for the country's LGBT community because, although the law was rarely enforced, lawyers said it helped bolster a culture of repression and fear.JUST WATCHED India's top court decriminalizes gay sex Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH India's top court decriminalizes gay sex 01:464. North KoreaNorth Korea wants to denuke the Korean Peninsula before President Trump leaves office. This timeline, of sorts, is what South Korean officials say North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is pushing for. They just returned from meetings in the North, finalizing plans for another summit later this month between Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in. Kim has "unwavering trust" in Trump, the South Koreans report, and he's willing to take more steps toward denuclearization if they're met with matching steps from the US. Talks between the North and the US stalled in recent weeks , with both sides calling on the other to make further concessions before moving forward.JUST WATCHED What Trump said about North Korean nukes in 1999 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What Trump said about North Korean nukes in 1999 03:245. WeatherBREAKFAST BROWSEI know you!He was a premature baby she cared for in the hospital 28 years ago. Now, this California nurse just found out he's her co-workerJUST WATCHED Nurse, premature baby reunited 28 years later Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Nurse, premature baby reunited 28 years later 00:30Au revoirCan't get your tween off her phone? You could send her to France, which just banned phones in primary and middles schoolsJUST WATCHED Smartphones: The new teen mental health crisis? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Smartphones: The new teen mental health crisis? 03:25Facebook SOSPhotos: Facebook post saves lives of travelers in Bali -- photos Bali accident: Michael Lythcott and Stacey Eno were involved in a scooter accident on the Indonesian island of Bali that left them perilously close to death. Lythcott managed to raise the alarm and alert rescuers via his international network of Facebook friends. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Facebook post saves lives of travelers in Bali -- photos Traveling companions: Lythcott and Eno had met traveling in Thailand in February. They arranged to rendezvous on Bali in August. Within hours of meeting up they'd crashed off a road, suffering serious injuries. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Facebook post saves lives of travelers in Bali -- photos Phone alert: On the edge of consciousness and fearing they would die, undiscovered, on a lonely hillside, Lythcott managed to send out a message via Facebook. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Facebook post saves lives of travelers in Bali -- photos Friends to the rescue: Lythcott's network of friends quickly responded. Using a WhatsApp pin drop he managed to confirm his position to a contact who passed it on. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Facebook post saves lives of travelers in Bali -- photos Hospitalized: Lythnott suffered from injuries including a fractured skull, broken wrist and perforated abdomen. Both he and Eno have started fundraising pages to help pay for medical bills. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Facebook post saves lives of travelers in Bali -- photos On the way home: Eno fractured both of her cheekbones as well as her nose and left wrist, but has made it back home to South Korea. She describes her experiences as a "wild ride" but says it hasn't put her off travel. "I know travel is scary and risky sometimes but there is no way either of us will stop." Hide Caption 6 of 6Like a virgin"The Bachelor" will have its first virgin bachelor next season, meaning things will be really different in the fantasy suite.You could also call securityWhat do you do when that protester just won't shut up during a congressional hearing? Use your auctioneering skills to auction off her cell phone.JUST WATCHED Congressman stuns hearing with auctioneer patter Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Congressman stuns hearing with auctioneer patter 01:30HAPPENING LATERReady for some football?JUST WATCHED New Nike ad features Colin Kaepernick Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New Nike ad features Colin Kaepernick 00:36TODAY'S NUMBER$9 billionThe one-time value of Silicon Valley startup Theranos, a blood-testing company that's now shutting down as it's founder faces fraud chargesJUST WATCHED Theranos founder Elizabeth Holmes indicted for fraud Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Theranos founder Elizabeth Holmes indicted for fraud 01:44AND FINALLYAnything you can do ...