Are you affected by Tropical Storm Florence? When it's safe, text, iMessage or WhatsApp your videos, photos and stories to CNN: 347-322-0415Lumberton, North Carolina (CNN) Florence's merciless deluge has already killed 18, trapped hundreds and made parts of North and South Carolina impassable -- and authorities say the worst flooding is yet to come.The tropical depression will keep dumping rain over parts of North Carolina for the next few days, with numerous rivers expected to crest at major flood stage.Family braces for flooding after FlorenceFamily braces for flooding after Florence 00:58Family braces for flooding after FlorenceFlooding already is so bad in North Carolina that the state transportation department is telling people not to travel in the state . Numerous highways, including sections of I-95 and I-40, are closed , and road flooding has virtually cut off the coastal city of Wilmington.More than 900 water rescues have been reported in North Carolina alone, the governor's office said -- but many more people need help. The volunteer United Cajun Navy rescue group says it was helping in Leland, where about 200 people have made calls for help, after it made numerous rescues in Wilmington."We're just chasing the water," United Cajun Navy President Todd Terrell said Sunday.And in Lumberton, North Carolina -- a city submerged by Hurricane Matthew in 2016 -- residents are bracing for potential disaster as the Lumber River seeps through a patched-up gap in the levee systemWhat to expectAs of Sunday evening, Florence was centered about 25 miles south-southeast of Greenville, South Carolina, the National Hurricane Center said. It was moving west at 14 mph, whipping 35 mph winds.By the storm's end, up to 40 inches will fall in southeastern North Carolina and the northeastern tip of South Carolina, the National Hurricane Center said. Other parts of the Carolinas will be left with up to 20 inches of rain, causing significant river flooding, with some rivers not cresting until later this week.Up to 6 more inches of rain could fall in parts of North Carolina and Virginia from Sunday evening to Tuesday evening, forecasters said. The storm should move up into West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York and parts of New England by Tuesday, dropping 2 to 4 inches of rain there.Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Maura Walbourne sits in the front of a canoe as she looks inside her flooded home in Conway, South Carolina, on Sunday, September 23. Hide Caption 1 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A home in Conway, South Carolina, is inundated by floodwaters on Wednesday, September 26, one week after Hurricane Florence. Hide Caption 2 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Taylor James navigates floodwaters in a boat in front of Trinity United Methodist Church in Conway, South Carolina on Wednesday, September 26. Hide Caption 3 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Floodwaters from the Neuse River cover part of Kinston, North Carolina, on Monday, September 24. Hide Caption 4 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Brian Terry looks at the floodwaters outside his home in Brittons Neck, South Carolina, on Saturday, September 22. Hide Caption 5 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath An officer with the South Carolina State Highway Patrol marks the water level of Highway 22 on Saturday. Hide Caption 6 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Avery Singleton takes a boat to Pine Grove Baptist Church in Brittons Neck, South Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 7 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath President Donald Trump hands out food at Temple Baptist Church, where food and other supplies were being distributed Wednesday, September 19, as part of Hurricane Florence recovery efforts in New Bern, North Carolina. Hide Caption 8 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Trump shakes hands as he visits the New Bern church on Wednesday. Hide Caption 9 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A woman in Currie, North Carolina, sits on a damaged road surrounded by floodwaters on Tuesday, September 18. Hide Caption 10 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Ronnie Gainey pulls an electric guitar from his flooded home in Darlington, South Carolina. Hide Caption 11 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Two people near Wallace, South Carolina, sit on the top of a vehicle that was caught in flooding on Monday, September 17. Hide Caption 12 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Rescue personnel help people evacuate a flooded area in Spring Lake, North Carolina. Hide Caption 13 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Floodwaters surround a trailer in Pollocksville, North Carolina, on September 17. Hide Caption 14 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Pollocksville resident Willie Schubert cradles his dog, Lucky, atop a stranded van as they await help from the US Coast Guard on September 17. Hide Caption 15 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Floodwaters are seen on North Carolina's Emerald Isle on Sunday, September 16. Hide Caption 16 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Chicken farm buildings are inundated with floodwaters near Trenton, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 17 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Panicked dogs left caged by their owner are rescued by volunteer Ryan Nichols in Leland, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 18 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A church is partially submerged in Richlands, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 19 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Coast Guard member Blake Gwinn helps Josephine Horne escape her flooded home in Columbus County, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 20 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A large tree lies on top of a mobile home in Newport, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 21 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath John Hendren leads horses to safety after the US Coast Guard helped cut up a fallen tree that had trapped the animals in a flooded field in Lumberton, North Carolina. Hide Caption 22 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Tony Thompson stands in the wreckage of his mobile home as Florence moved inland over Newport, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 23 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A woman and a young girl walk down a flooded road in Pollocksville on September 16. Hide Caption 24 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Floodwaters inundate parts of Trenton, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 25 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Members of the Coast Guard help a stranded motorist in floodwaters in Lumberton, North Carolina, on September 16. Hide Caption 26 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A man peers from his flooded home in Lumberton on September 16. Hide Caption 27 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Members of a search-and-rescue team help an elderly resident onto a bus as they evacuate an assisted living facility in Fayetteville, North Carolina, on Saturday, September 15. Hide Caption 28 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A member of the US Coast Guard checks on homes after Florence hit Newport, North Carolina, on September 15 . Hide Caption 29 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A neighbor takes photos of a boat smashed against a car garage near the Neuse River in New Bern on Saturday. Hide Caption 30 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A truck is submerged in floodwaters in Jacksonville, North Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 31 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Joseph Eudi surveys debris and storm damage at a home in New Bern, North Carolina, on September 15. Hide Caption 32 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A woman calls for help at her flooded residence as Florence brought large amounts of rain and floodwaters to Lumberton, North Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 33 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath People wait in line to fill gas cans at a gas station that was damaged when Florence hit Wilmington, North Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 34 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A baseball field on Mill Creek Road is filled with floodwater after Florence hit Newport, North Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 35 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Mike Pollack searches for a drain in the yard of his flooded waterfront home in Wilmington, North Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 36 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Floodwaters from Florence inundate the town of Engelhard, North Carolina, on Saturday. Hide Caption 37 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Ray Baca of Wilmington, North Carolina, checks his phone as he sits on a bench. Hide Caption 38 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A sailboat lifted by storm surge leans against a building at Bridgepointe Marina in New Bern, North Carolina, on Saturday, a day after Florence's landfall. Hide Caption 39 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Kim Adams wades through floodwaters surrounding her home in Southport, North Carolina, on September 15. Hide Caption 40 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Volunteers help rescue three children from a flooded home in James City, North Carolina, on Friday, September 14. Hide Caption 41 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Russ Lewis covers his eyes from wind and sand in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, on September 14. Hide Caption 42 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Volunteers help rescue people from their flooded homes in New Bern on September 14. Hide Caption 43 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Waves crash into the Second Avenue Pier in Myrtle Beach on September 14. Hide Caption 44 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath The storm leaves a tree toppled in New Bern on September 14. Hide Caption 45 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Soldiers from the North Carolina National Guard reinforce a low-lying area with sandbags in Lumberton, North Carolina, on September 14. Hide Caption 46 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Robert Simmons Jr. and his kitten are rescued from floodwaters in New Bern on September 14. Hide Caption 47 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Teddie Davis checks on one of the New Bern's signature bear statues toppled by the storm on September 14. Another one of the bears, in the background, ended up in the middle of a downtown street. Hide Caption 48 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Rising waters threaten downtown Washington, North Carolina, as the Pamlico River overruns its banks on September 14. Hide Caption 49 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath An abandoned van sits on a flooded road near New Bern on September 14. Hide Caption 50 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A boat sits wedged in trees in Oriental, North Carolina, near New Bern, on September 14. Hide Caption 51 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Members of a Federal Emergency Management Agency team from California search a flooded neighborhood in Fairfield Harbour, North Carolina, on September 14. Hide Caption 52 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Rescue workers attempt to remove a giant tree that fell onto a house in Wilmington, North Carolina, on September 14. Two people died when the tree collapsed -- among the first storm-related deaths due to Hurricane Florence. Hide Caption 53 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Electric poles that snapped in half sway from their wires in Wilmington on September 14. Hide Caption 54 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Lee Casteen, left, and Try Hinton use a chainsaw to clear a tree blocking a road in Wilmington on September 14. Hide Caption 55 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Rescue workers help a woman and her dog from a flooded house in James City on September 14. Hide Caption 56 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Michael Nelson floats in a boat fashioned from a metal tub and fishing floats after the Neuse River flooded September 13 in New Bern. Hide Caption 57 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Powerful winds and waves destroy portions of a boat dock and boardwalk in Atlantic Beach on September 13. Hide Caption 58 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Residents wade through streets flooded by the Neuse River in New Bern on September 13. Hide Caption 59 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Astronaut Alexander Gerst posted this photo on Twitter of Hurricane Florence saying, "It's chilling, even from space." Gerst is aboard the International Space Station. Hide Caption 60 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Evacuees take refuge at Burgaw Middle School in Burgaw, North Carolina, on September 12. Hide Caption 61 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Marge Brown says goodbye to her father, George Brown, before his evacuation from a health care home in Morehead City, North Carolina, on September 12. Hide Caption 62 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Workers take boats out of the water in Wanchese Harbor in Wanchese, North Carolina, on September 12 as the Outer Banks prepares for Florence. Hide Caption 63 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Astronaut Gerst also posted this photo to Twitter on September 12, saying, "Watch out, America! #HurricaneFlorence is so enormous, we could only capture her with a super wide-angle lens from the @Space_Station, 400 km directly above the eye. Get prepared on the East Coast, this is a no-kidding nightmare coming for you." Hide Caption 64 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Jeff Bryant, left, and James Evans board the windows of a business in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, on Tuesday, September 11. Hide Caption 65 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath People fill sandbags in Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina, on September 11. Hide Caption 66 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Both lanes of Interstate 26 flow westbound in North Charleston, South Carolina, toward Columbia as people evacuate inland on September 11. Hide Caption 67 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Laura Gretch holds Frances, a Chihuahua mix, as she helps unload cats and dogs arriving at the Humane Rescue Alliance in Washington from Norfolk, Virginia, on September 11. Hide Caption 68 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Veronica Gallardo and Robert Kelly place a plastic tarp over an American flag inside the Casemate Museum at Fort Monroe in Hampton, Virginia, on September 11. Hide Caption 69 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath A man eyes a store's bare bread shelves as people stock up on food in Myrtle Beach on September 11. Hide Caption 70 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Chuck Ledford, left, watches cartoons on a phone with his daughter Misty as they seek shelter at Emma B. Trask Middle School in Wilmington, North Carolina, on Tuesday, September 11. Hide Caption 71 of 72 Photos: In pictures: Hurricane Florence and its aftermath Scott Fleenor, bottom, and Jeremiah Trendell board over the windows of a business in Myrtle Beach. Hide Caption 72 of 72About 532,338 customers in North Carolina and 61,000 in South Carolina don't have power. But the number of actual people without power is far greater, since a single customer can represent an entire family.'Let's get in the truck and get out of here'Lumberton was still recovering from Hurricane Matthew when Florence swept through. Now, workers are racing against rising flood waters to shore up the city's main levee system before the river crests.Coast Guard members help a stranded motorist Sunday in Lumberton, North Carolina.By Sunday afternoon, the river had reached nearly 24 feet. It is expected to crest late Sunday or early Monday around 25.7 feet. If the river gets higher than 26 feet, "all bets are off," city public works deputy director Corey Walters said.At one point Sunday afternoon, part of a makeshift barrier meant to plug a low point in the city's main levee system gave way and river water leaked through -- prompting workers to try to shore it back up with construction equipment.As we accompanied the @USCG, we got this rare view of the now compromised makeshift levee that was holding back the waters from the overflowing Lumber River. City officials say the actual levee along the river remains OK. pic.twitter.com/zDkUZjZpSc — Polo Sandoval (@PoloSandovalCNN) September 16, 2018Bobby Hunt's house is still damaged from Matthew. As the river kept rising Sunday, he knew it was time to flee. Hunt said Matthew caught them by surprise with flooding in the middle of the night. He's not waiting for that to happen again.One family riding out the storm in a cluster of homes on the outskirts of Lumberton was content to leave their fate in God's hands. "I just feel comfortable staying. We have our dogs and our property, so we stay," 57-year-old Kenan Chance, said.Their homes are still damaged from Matthew, but they survived, members of the family said. Whether they stay or go, they'll have damage to contend with.Her father, 84-year-old Rembert Walters, says that if his relatives dispersed to different havens, he'd spend all his time worrying about them."We're not going to move until this thing's over. It's going to wipe us out or kill us. Or bury us, or something," he said as floodwater crept upon his porch. "'Cause we don't run every time this thing happened."Betty Walters says she has health issues that are hard to manage at a shelter. "It's just better for us to stay at home," she said. "I trust in the Lord. He calmed the waters and he's going to look after us."The fear of sudden, massive river flooding isn't limited to Lumberton. Forecasters say many rivers across the state still haven't crested -- some won't crest until late Sunday or Monday.North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper said it's not too late to go to an emergency shelter. More than 15,000 people are staying at 150 emergency shelters. And if those shelters fill up, he said, the state will open up more.Wilmington is basically cut offThe coastal North Carolina city of Wilmington, population 117,000, is so deeply submerged that no one can get in -- not even aid workers carrying fuel and critical supplies.Part of downtown Wilmington, North Carolina, is inundated by water from the swollen Cape Fear River.FEMA crews and power company trucks were turned away Saturday night because of the flooding, Saffo said.The Wilmington-based Cape Fear Public Utility Authority urged residents to fill bathtubs and containers with water in case the utility doesn't have enough fuel to keep its water treatment plants running.Nearby Pender County, north of Wilmington, also is running out of fuel, Commissioner Jackie Newton said. Near the community of Wards Corner in that county, US 421 was a virtual lake, with waters lapping up to homes on either side, video from a CNN crew showed.The North Carolina attorney general's office has received more than 500 complaints of price gouging -- including for hotel rooms, gas and water. Authorities have launched investigations.Causes of death include electrocution and fallen treesThe death toll from Florence rose Sunday, with authorities saying 18 deaths have been linked to the storm:-- A 3-month-old baby who died after a tree fell on a mobile home in Dallas, North Carolina.-- A man who died when a his truck hit an overpass support beam on Interstate 20 in Kershaw County, South Carolina.-- A man who drowned in an overturned vehicle on a flooded road in Georgetown County, South Carolina.-- Three people who died in flash flooding or swift water on roads in Duplin County, North Carolina-- Two people who died in a storm-related fire in Cumberland County, North Carolina-- A mother and a child who were killed when a tree fell on their house in Wilmington, North Carolina-- Two people who died from carbon monoxide poisoning in Horry County, South Carolina.-- A woman in South Carolina who struck a downed tree while she was driving.-- A woman who suffered cardiac arrest in Hampstead, in North Carolina's Pender County. When emergency responders tried to reach her, their path was blocked by fallen trees.-- Another person in Pender County, according to the county's emergency management director. No details were immediately available.-- A man who was killed while checking on his dogs in Lenoir County, North Carolina.-- Another man in Lenoir County who was electrocuted while trying to connect two extension cords.-- An 81-year-old man who fell and struck his head while packing to evacuate in Wayne County, North Carolina.As much of North Carolina faces flooding for days, Gov. Cooper said the risk of more deaths is quite real."Remember: Most storm deaths occur from drowning in fresh water, often in cars," he said. "Don't drive across standing or moving water."