(CNN) It's the day after Labor Day, so summer really is over. Try to console yourself by checking out the 12 best islands in America . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Tropical Storm GordonAlmost 2 million people are under a hurricane warning this morning as Tropical Storm Gordon speeds toward the Gulf Coast. It is expected to strengthen into a hurricane before it hits the north central Gulf Coast late today, the National Hurricane Center says. States of emergency have been declared in Mississippi and Louisiana, and a voluntary evacuation notice was issued in New Orleans for areas outside the levee system. This morning, Gordon was about 280 miles east-southeast of the mouth of Mississippi River. The storm, headed west-northwest, had maximum winds of 65 mph. You can track Gordon here2. SCOTUS hearings3. Brazil museum fireAn unimaginable loss. There's no other way to describe the destruction of the 200-year-old National Museum of Brazil, which was gutted in a devastating fire over the weekend. An estimated 20 million artifacts -- spanning 11,000 years -- may have been wiped out in just hours. And Brazilians are angry. Protesters took to the streets over reports linking the fire with government spending cuts and inadequate maintenance of key infrastructure, including the building's sprinkler system. Many protesters claimed money meant to fund restoration projects at the museum had been diverted by the government. A candidate in the country's upcoming presidential election called the fire "a lobotomy of the Brazilian memory."JUST WATCHED Huge fire engulfs museum in Brazil Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Huge fire engulfs museum in Brazil 01:144. MyanmarJUST WATCHED Myanmar court sentences journalists to 7 years Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Myanmar court sentences journalists to 7 years 01:475. Ronan FarrowJournalist Ronan Farrow said legal and standards teams at NBC News cleared his reporting about Harvey Weinstein "twice" before executives blocked it by refusing to allow him to get comment from the Hollywood mogul. That extraordinary claim is Farrow's first comments in the controversy over his reporting, which accused Weinstein of sexual assault and misconduct. Farrow's work eventually ended up being published last fall by The New Yorker. Farrow spoke out after NBC News chairman Andy Lack pushed out a memo disputing allegations that the news network tried to kill Farrow's work.JUST WATCHED Ronan Farrow: This is an unexpected moment Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ronan Farrow: This is an unexpected moment 02:15TODAY'S QUOTE"After some time, I could almost no longer feel the pain."Ugandan politician and pop star Bobi Wine, detailing abuse he claims he suffered at the hands of the country's military. He says he was beaten with an iron bar, punched, kicked, hit with pistol butts and had his ears pulled with "something like pliers." Wine, the leader of a youth movement that has rattled the regime of President Yoweri Museveni, is in the US for medical treatment.JUST WATCHED Protesters demand release of Uganda's Bobi Wine Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Protesters demand release of Uganda's Bobi Wine 02:42BREAKFAST BROWSEChange of sceneryWhen "The Conners" premieres this fall, Roseanne Barr won't be on the screen -- or even in the US. She says she'll be in Israel when the spin-off airs.JUST WATCHED Roseanne: 'Sorry that you thought I was racist' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Roseanne: 'Sorry that you thought I was racist' 01:44No shame in his gameFans and actors rose up for "Cosby Show" alum Geoffrey Owens -- who played Elvin -- after someone tried to job-shame him for working at Trader Joe's.JUST WATCHED ocial media defends 'Cosby Show' actor Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH ocial media defends 'Cosby Show' actor 01:04He'll be backBono promises that he and his voice will be back , after he suffered "a complete loss" of it during a concert in Berlin over the weekend.JUST WATCHED U2's Bono loses voice during concert Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH U2's Bono loses voice during concert 00:56'Sacrificing everything'Colin Kaepernick may never play in the NFL again, but he still has fans at Nike, which is including him in 30th anniversary ads for its "Just Do it" sloganCartoon charactersChildish Gambino (aka Donald Glover) is back with another video that everyone will be talking about. "Feels Like Summer" dials back politics for cartoons.JUST WATCHED Childish Gambino surprises students at open mic Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Childish Gambino surprises students at open mic 01:18HAPPENING LATERPrimary dayJUST WATCHED The new breed of Democrats to look out for Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The new breed of Democrats to look out for 02:02TODAY'S NUMBER55The world ranking of John Millman, the Australian who knocked five-time US Open champ Roger Federer out of this year's tournamentJUST WATCHED Looking ahead to the last Grand Slam of the year -- The U.S. Open Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Looking ahead to the last Grand Slam of the year -- The U.S. Open 01:20AND FINALLYTake flight