(CNN) When 18-year-old Michael Brown was killed in a confrontation with police in Ferguson, Missouri, in August 2014, the aftermath was so devastating it seemed there was no place for America to go but up.Then came the next 24 months.People at a San Francisco rally on July 8, 2016 denouncing police shootings in the U.S.In the two years since Brown was fatally shot by Ferguson police officer Darren Wilson, there's been a pileup of other controversial police encounters that have resulted in the deaths of unarmed black men.Meanwhile, the protests and calls for justice have only grown louder. As the headlines stack up, here's a recap of how this outrage began and why Ferguson was the gas that fueled the fire:There's still conflicting information about Brown's deathMichael Brown and Darren Wilson encountered one another as Brown walked with a friend, Dorian Johnson, down the middle of Canfield Drive after 12 p.m. on Saturday, August 9, 2014. Wilson told authorities he approached the two young men because they were blocking traffic.Michael Brown's covered body lies in the middle of Canfield Drive as Ferguson authorities investigate the scene on August 9, 2014.What happened next depends on whom you ask.Authorities said that Brown attacked Wilson in his car and tried to take his gun. Others said Wilson was the aggressor, and that Brown had his hands up when Wilson began firing.What is clear is that Wilson shot and killed Brown, who was unarmed. According to the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, the entire fatal encounter took less than two minutes.Protests went on for monthsCrowds quickly gathered at the scene of the shooting as Brown's body remained in the street for four hours.JUST WATCHED Mom: 'You took my son away from me' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mom: 'You took my son away from me' 01:52Two days after Brown's killing, authorities estimated as many as 1,000 demonstrators were protesting in Ferguson. "We had what probably bordered on riot conditions," Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson said, explaining that it took hours to process the scene, collect evidence and move Brown's body.The frustration and anger in the community became crystal clear in the weeks that followed as residents faced off with police, with some of the demonstrations turning violent.#Ferguson shone a national spotlight on the issue of police and raceThe outcry heard in Ferguson was already building before Brown was killed. The month before, another high-profile case revolved around Eric Garner , an unarmed African-American man who died in New York after being placed in a chokehold by police.JUST WATCHED How Ferguson exploded into a national movement Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Ferguson exploded into a national movement 01:52The death of Brown, who'd just graduated from high school and was two days away from starting college, was seen by many as another example of mistreatment by police in African-American communities. And Ferguson already had a long history of distrust between its mostly white police force and the city's mainly black population.Between August 9 and August 25, 2014, the hashtag #Ferguson was used on Twitter 11.6 million times with retweets and 1.9 million times without, according to the social media monitoring company, Sysomos.What happened in Ferguson, many on social media were saying, was happening everywhere.Two investigations were launchedOne was a criminal investigation led by St. Louis County, which determined whether Wilson would face charges. The other was a civil rights investigation spearheaded by federal officials.U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder talks with Capt. Ron Johnson, right, of the Missouri State Highway Patrol on August 20, 2014 in Ferguson, Missouri.The feds also led a civil rights investigation into the Ferguson police department's overall track record with minorities.Fresh outrage erupted after Wilson avoids criminal chargesPolice responded by deploying tear gas, as the governor called in the Missouri National Guard.Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers walk past the smoldering remains of a beauty supply store in Ferguson, Missouri, on Tuesday, November 25. Ferguson has been struggling to return to normal since Michael Brown, an unarmed black teenager, was killed by Darren Wilson, a white police officer, on August 9. The grand jury did not indict Wilson in the case, prompting new waves of protests in Ferguson and across the country. Hide Caption 1 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A woman cleans up glass from a business' shattered window on November 25. Hide Caption 2 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A Ferguson firefighter surveys rubble at a strip mall that was set on fire overnight. Hide Caption 3 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters run away after police deployed tear gas in Ferguson on Monday, November 24. Hide Caption 4 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police take position during clashes with protesters on November 24. Hide Caption 5 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A protester stands in front of police vehicles with his hands up on November 24. Hide Caption 6 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police in riot gear move past a burning vehicle on November 24. Hide Caption 7 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A looter in Ferguson walks out of a burning Walgreens on November 24. Hide Caption 8 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Riot police clash with protesters on November 24. Hide Caption 9 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Firefighters work on extinguishing a Little Caesars restaurant on November 24. Hide Caption 10 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Smoke fills the streets of Ferguson as buildings burn on November 24. Hide Caption 11 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers grab a protester on November 24. Hide Caption 12 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A woman treats her face for possible tear gas exposure on November 24. Hide Caption 13 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson People walk away from a burning storage facility on November 24. Hide Caption 14 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A man steps out of a vandalized store on November 24. Hide Caption 15 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A police officer runs by a burning police car on November 24. Hide Caption 16 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers stand guard as protesters confront them on November 24. Hide Caption 17 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters block streets in St. Louis after the announcement of the grand jury's decision on November 24. Ferguson is a suburb of St. Louis. Hide Caption 18 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police confront protesters in Ferguson on November 24. Hide Caption 19 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A police officer points his rifle at demonstrators on November 24. Hide Caption 20 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters run for shelter as smoke fills the streets of Ferguson on November 24. Hide Caption 21 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson The glass windows of a store are shattered on November 24. Hide Caption 22 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A demonstrator listens to a car radio as the grand jury's decision is delivered in front of the Ferguson Police Department. Hide Caption 23 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Lesley McSpadden, mother of Michael Brown, is escorted away from the Ferguson Police Department on November 24. Hide Caption 24 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A group of protesters vandalizes a police vehicle in Ferguson on November 24. Hide Caption 25 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers confront protesters on November 24. Hide Caption 26 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Demonstrators block traffic during a protest in front of the Ferguson Police Department on November 24. Hide Caption 27 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Demonstrators gather outside the police station on November 24. Hide Caption 28 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters gather as they wait for the announcement of the grand jury decision on November 24. Hide Caption 29 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Members of the media line up in a parking lot across from the Buzz Westfall Justice Center on November 24. Hide Caption 30 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Residents begin to gather at the Michael Brown memorial ahead of the grand jury announcement. Hide Caption 31 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson National Guard troops arrive ahead of the grand jury announcement. Hide Caption 32 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Members of the Missouri National Guard are escorted out of the Buzz Westfall Justice Center. Hide Caption 33 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Demonstrators are confronted by police as they block a street before the grand jury announcement. Hide Caption 34 of 34Protests against the grand jury's decision spread across the country, including in New York, Chicago and in front of the White House in Washington, D.C.Days later, Wilson resigned from the Ferguson police forceIn March 2015, the U.S. Justice Department made two crucial announcementsThe DOJ announced it would not bring any federal charges against Wilson, and it also reported systemic racial discrimination by Ferguson police and its court system.In swift succession, Ferguson officials -- including the city's police chief and city manager at the time -- resigned.In February 2016, the DOJ sued Ferguson over police misconductWith new officials in place, you might think the tension in Ferguson would start to dissolve. Not so. A year after the Justice Department reported a "pattern and practice" of discrimination in Ferguson's criminal justice system, the DOJ sued the city to try and push police reform.JUST WATCHED U.S. Department of Justice suing Ferguson Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH U.S. Department of Justice suing Ferguson 01:05By March 2016, Ferguson and the U.S. Justice Department reached an agreement to overhaul the Missouri city's troubled police force and municipal court system."This agreement marks the beginning of a process that the citizens of Ferguson have long awaited -- the process of ensuring that they receive the rights and protections guaranteed to every American under the law," said Attorney General Loretta Lynch.Two years later, more protests over other police-involved shootingsPhotos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter Black Lives Matter started with a hashtag. Now it is a rallying cry, a cause and a movement in the wake of the deaths of black men at the hands of police. The latest police shootings of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile have spurred a new round of protests across the country and worldwide. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter Some organizers say the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the death of Trayvon Martin in 2012 is where the movement began. Demonstrators wore hoodies and carried Skittles, the candy Martin had bought on the night he was killed. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter The shooting death of unarmed teen Michael Brown in August 2014 in Ferguson, Missouri, by an officer lit an existing fuse and protests engulfed the town. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter By the time Eric Garner died after being placed in a chokehold by a New York Police Department officer, support for Black Lives Matter had grown nationwide. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter Protests and clashes with police after the officer wasn't indicted in the death of Michael Brown in Ferguson led to another round of protests, with the rallying cry "No justice, no peace." Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter Demands for change led to organized protests in major cities, including New York, Washington, Boston, San Francisco and Oakland, California, in December 2014. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter Activist Muhiyidin d'Baha took the call for action into a North Charleston, South Carolina, City Council after the killing of Walter Scott by a North Charleston police officer. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter The death of Freddie Gray in Baltimore led to frustrations that splintered into violence; a CVS Pharmacy was looted and burned during protests after his funeral. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter A battle waged against the Confederate flag as a symbol of hatred after Dylann Roof was accused of killing nine people in a South Carolina church in an attempt to spark a race war. Activist Brittany "Bree" Newsome took the battle flag off the flagpole at the Statehouse in Columbia, South Carolina. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter The political activism entered the 2016 campaign, with some parts of the movement deciding to interrupt presidential candidates to demand more be done. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter Black Lives Matter demonstrators made a point of protesting Democratic events to bring attention to their issues. The group had a tense meeting with Hillary Clinton in New Hampshire and released video of the conversation. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter The movement also worked its way into popular culture, sparking an episode of "Law & Order: Special Victims Unit," which took on a police officer killing an innocent unarmed black man. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter Black Lives Matter protesters continued to disrupt political events in an attempt to be heard, including this Hillary Clinton event in Atlanta. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter Racial tensions led to a weekslong protest movement at the University of Missouri campus that ousted both the university president and the school's chancellor. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter The movement was born out of frustration over the death of young black men. Jamar Clark's funeral in Minneapolis in November is an example of that continued unified response. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter Black Lives Matter demonstrators march in Cleveland on December 29, 2015, after a grand jury declined to indict Cleveland Police officer Timothy Loehmann for the fatal shooting of Tamir Rice on November 22, 2014. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter Sirica Bolling raises her fist as she walks down Jefferson Avenue during a Black Lives Matter protest in Newport News, Va., Sunday July 10, 2016, following the fatal shootings of Alton Sterling in Louisiana and Philando Castile in Minnesota. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Evolution of Black Lives Matter Demonstrations have popped up in cities around the world, including this one in London on July 10, 2016, following the most recent police shootings. Hide Caption 18 of 18From Tamir Rice in Cleveland, to Walter Scott in South Carolina, to Laquan McDonald in Chicago, to Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge and Philando Castile in Minnesota, the growing list of black men and boys killed in police confrontations has prompted protests around the globe.