Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A bad week. Some nasty water. Another test. It's Wednesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Campaign 2016The official start of the general election campaign has been a lot less than ideal for the GOP's presidential nominee. Since the conventions, Donald Trump has:1) Refused to endorse the Speaker of the House or Arizona Sen. John McCain in their re-election bids (yeah, that's a pretty big snub);3) Said if his daughter was sexually harassed at work he'd want her to change careers (brother Eric says she's too strong to let that happen anyway);4) Got a Purple Heart as a gift from a supporter and said, that was easy!2. Baltimore woman killedPolice in Baltimore who killed a woman after a seven-hour standoff had her social media pages taken down as she tried to live-stream the event. Korryn Shandawn Gaines died in a gunfight with police Monday at her apartment. Her young son was injured. Police admitted yesterday they asked Facebook to deactivate her account as well as her Instagram account during the standoff. However, a couple of videos she recorded during the incident were still on Instagram yesterday afternoon.3. OlympicsOK, we all know the waters around Rio are pretty icky, but just how icky? Icky enough that you shouldn't put your head (or probably any other body part) under the water, says one biomedical expert. The waters -- including Guanabara Bay, where sailing competitions will be held -- are full of viruses and drug resistant superbugs . Promises were made when Rio was awarded the Games that the waters would be cleaned up. Well that didn't happen. Rio authorities said there is an "internationally acceptable" level of bacteria in the water. Great. Most Olympians say they'll go ahead and compete this week, after taking the proper precautions.4. North KoreaLooks like North Korea is still in the missile-testing business. The North fired off a pair of ballistic missiles early this morning. One exploded right after launch and the other went into the Sea of Japan, U.S. and South Korean officials say. North Korea's not supposed to be launching anything, at least that's what a U.N. Security Council resolution passed earlier this year says. But when has the North ever let that stop them?5. ObamacareObamacare's under fire again, but not from the Republicans. This time it's insurance companies taking aim at the controversial government program. Yesterday Aetna said it was canceling plans to expand into five more state s and will reassess involvement in the 15 states where it currently offers coverage on Obamacare's individual exchanges. Aetna's losing $300 million on Obamacare this year. Other insurers are raking up big losses too, raising questions about Obamacare's viability.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Eye openerSamsung's opened up a new front in the phone wars: you can unlock its newest phone with your eyesNot tonight honeyThose fun-loving millennials are having less sex than Gen Xers did in their 20s. Technology may be creeping into their "hook up" time. Hate when that happens.Winging itThe feds have given an OK to Google's Project Wing, so keep an eye on the sky as the tech giant starts testing delivery dronesDefinitely not extinctTired of hearing about species going extinct? Well scientists have discovered a new species of whale in Alaska that they haven't even named yet.Career change?If this NBA thing doesn't work out for Draymond Green he can always try, ahem, an adult film career. He's got a porn job offer after his NSFW Snapchat.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up laterLet the games beginThe Olympic torch arrives in Rio today, as some of the 2016 Summer Games get underway. The opening ceremonies formally kick everything off Friday night.AND FINALLY ...'Is it still alive?'Hey, want to feel really old? Watch these grade school kids struggle to understand the concept of Blockbuster Video. You're welcome.