(CNN) The city of Orlando is discussing with the owners of the Pulse nightclub the possibility of buying the property and turning the site of the deadliest massacre in modern U.S. history into a memorial, spokeswomen for both parties said Wednesday.Barbara Poma, an owner of the club, and Mayor Buddy Dyer spoke about the possibility a few weeks ago, Sara Brady, a spokeswoman for Poma told CNN.People gather for a vigil near the Beaubourg art center in Paris on June 12.People gather for a vigil near the Beaubourg art center in Paris on June 12.People gather for a vigil June 12 outside the Stonewall Inn in New York. Stonewall is considered the birthplace of the gay rights movement.A man places a handprint on a makeshift memorial near the nightclub where the attack took place.A man places a handprint on a makeshift memorial near the nightclub where the attack took place.People hold candles near Rome's Colosseum as they take part in a ceremony on June 12.People hold candles near Rome's Colosseum as they take part in a ceremony on June 12.Participants in the Los Angeles gay pride parade show their support for the victims on June 12.Participants in the Los Angeles gay pride parade show their support for the victims on June 12.A man injured in the attack stands with other mourners as they attend a memorial service at an Orlando church.A man injured in the attack stands with other mourners as they attend a memorial service at an Orlando church.Two women light candles during a vigil in front of the U.S. Embassy in Santiago, Chile, on June 12.Two women light candles during a vigil in front of the U.S. Embassy in Santiago, Chile, on June 12.Mourners gather during a vigil in front of the White House on June 12. President Barack Obama called the mass shooting an "act of terror" in remarks to the nation.Mourners gather during a vigil in front of the White House on June 12. President Barack Obama called the mass shooting an "act of terror" in remarks to the nation.One World Trade Center is lit in rainbow colors June 12 in New York.One World Trade Center is lit in rainbow colors June 12 in New York.A rainbow flag flies at half-staff on the Space Needle in Seattle on June 12.A rainbow flag flies at half-staff on the Space Needle in Seattle on June 12.Lin-Manuel Miranda, creator of the musical "Hamilton," delivers a sonnet at the Tony Awards to pay tribute to the Orlando victims.Lin-Manuel Miranda, creator of the musical "Hamilton," delivers a sonnet at the Tony Awards to pay tribute to the Orlando victims.Mourners hold an LED sign as they march during a vigil in Dallas on Sunday, June 12.Mourners hold an LED sign as they march during a vigil in Dallas on Sunday, June 12.The city of Melbourne posted this image on its Twitter account June 13 "as a mark of respect for those touched by the attack in Orlando. Town Hall is lit in the rainbow #LoveIsLove."The city of Melbourne posted this image on its Twitter account June 13 "as a mark of respect for those touched by the attack in Orlando. Town Hall is lit in the rainbow #LoveIsLove."White roses and rainbow flags are displayed in front of the U.S. Embassy in Berlin on June 13.White roses and rainbow flags are displayed in front of the U.S. Embassy in Berlin on June 13.Students in Mumbai, India, light candles near a rangoli, an Indian form of art created on the ground, on June 13.Students in Mumbai, India, light candles near a rangoli, an Indian form of art created on the ground, on June 13.U.S. Ambassador to Thailand Glyn T. Davies, right, gestures to members of the LGBT community outside the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok, Thailand, on June 13. They were holding a vigil for the victims.U.S. Ambassador to Thailand Glyn T. Davies, right, gestures to members of the LGBT community outside the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok, Thailand, on June 13. They were holding a vigil for the victims.The Eiffel Tower in Paris is illuminated in rainbow colors on June 13.The Eiffel Tower in Paris is illuminated in rainbow colors on June 13.Thousands gather in Orlando on Monday, June 13, to pay tribute to those who were killed the day before.Thousands gather in Orlando on Monday, June 13, to pay tribute to those who were killed the day before.A vigil for the Orlando victims is held in New Delhi on June 14.A vigil for the Orlando victims is held in New Delhi on June 14.Britain's Prince William and his wife, Catherine, sign a book of condolences at the U.S. Embassy in London on June 14.Britain's Prince William and his wife, Catherine, sign a book of condolences at the U.S. Embassy in London on June 14.Jean Dasilva, left, is comforted by Felipe Soto as they mourn the loss of their friend Javier Jorge-Reyes on June 14. They were visiting a makeshift memorial at Pulse, the gay nightclub where the shooting took place.Jean Dasilva, left, is comforted by Felipe Soto as they mourn the loss of their friend Javier Jorge-Reyes on June 14. They were visiting a makeshift memorial at Pulse, the gay nightclub where the shooting took place.People remember the victims during a vigil at an LGBT community center in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Tuesday, June 14.People remember the victims during a vigil at an LGBT community center in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Tuesday, June 14.U.S. President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden place flowers at a memorial Thursday, June 16, for the victims of the nightclub shooting in Orlando. At least 49 people were killed in the massacre, the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history.In an interview aired Tuesday on WMFE radio, Dyer said, "We need to determine some period of time that we leave it exactly as is with some adequate fencing because there will be people ... that want to travel here to see it as it exists without making modifications."Dyer imagined that period of time would be about a year and then the city would "transition to a permanent memorial."Brady said Wednesday the discussions were preliminary.A spokeswoman for the mayor said it is up to Poma on how to proceed and there is no rush to purchase the club, where 49 people were killed by a gunman June 12. More than 50 other people were wounded. The gunman was also killed.Cassandra Lafser said if the city does buy the Pulse property it must go through a public process.'Sacred place'The nightclub was recently returned to Poma after being in police hands for weeks. Poma hasn't reopened the club, saying she was contemplating the future of the club. Before that, she had said she thought she would fix the damage to Pulse and reopen it at some point.After someone broke in July 14, Poma called Pulse a "sacred place."Since the days following the attack, the nightclub has a chain-link fence around it that visitors have decorated with flags, flowers, mementos and messages.The city has announced other plans to ensure the dead aren't forgotten.The world still stands with Orlando. Luxembourg Prime Minister @Xavier_Bettel visited today to offer condolences. pic.twitter.com/jgOg0crWK4 — Mayor Buddy Dyer (@orlandomayor) August 3, 2016It plans a paver garden as one permanent memorial. The names of the victims will be on stones placed around Lake Beauty Park outside Orlando Regional Medical Center, where many of the wounded were treated.The site was also home to 49 wooden crosses made by a carpenter from Illinois that were displayed outside the hospital. They are now in climate-controlled storage. The Orange County Regional History Center plans to use them and items from other temporary memorials at a permanent one, once a site has been determined.