Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Swimmers off the plane. Team Trump's new names. Day 13 of the Games. It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. US swimmersFirst, a group of US swimmers say they were robbed. Then the cops show up to take their passports. But Ryan Lochte's already back in the US and James Feigen is ... somewhere. Officers did catch up with the other two -- Jack Conger and Gunnar Bentz -- and promptly yanked them off a plane. Police are suspicious because of inconsistencies in the swimmers' stories -- like the number of robbers and the fact that some valuable items weren't taken. This is more riveting than some of the events.2. SyriaNear continuous beatings with silicone bars and hoses. That's the "welcome party" that awaits detainees, most of them rebels fighting against President Bashar al-Assad. A new report estimates that 17,723 people have died in custody since Syria's civil war began in March 2011 -- that's about 300 a month! But for an even starker reminder of the horrors of this war, look at the vacant expression of this little boy , rescued from the rubble of a bombed building.3. Campaign 2016While Hillary Clinton was hanging out with Paul McCartney , her team took aim at the new Team Trump , saying it looked a lot like the old Team Trump. Her campaign manager Robby Mook dissed Trump's new hire -- Steve Bannon of Breitbart News -- as a conspiracy theorist who runs a "so-called news site." Trump's got a little over 80 days to turn things around. Actually even less than that, because in some states early voting starts in about six weeks.JUST WATCHED Cohen: What polls show Donald Trump is losing? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cohen: What polls show Donald Trump is losing? 01:45Abjectly objectionWe'll just echo NY Post columnist John Podhoretz and say we too want a daily talk show with CNN's Brianna Keilar and Trump lawyer Michael Cohen called "Says Who," in which he repeatedly says "Says who?" and she just incredulously looks into the camera. (Click to view)4. MilwaukeeSylville Smith and the cop who killed him weren't strangers. In fact they went to high school together . And Smith's family is alleging a "personal vendetta" may have led the officer to shoot him, starting several days of unrest. For now, we're getting a better picture of the officer's standing in the mostly black Sherman Park neighborhood. He wasn't well-liked and considered overly aggressive. He's now in hiding because of threats.5. OlympicsBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.So sorryBlake Shelton's apologizing for a series of offensive jokes he tweeted out. Once again folks, Twitter's no place to try out your stand-up comedy routines.Front seat driverTime to goAn Alaskan village votes to move from its remote home, just outside the Arctic Circle, because global warming's causing extreme coastal erosion.Not so happyMcDonald's is pulling activity trackers out of Happy Meals because of skin irritations. Hard to be happy when it feels like your arm's burning off.Walk this wayWedding day really is a dream day, when the paralyzed bride gets out of her wheelchair , walks down the aisle and dances at the reception.Number of the day27The number of heroin overdoses in Huntington, West Virginia, over a four-hour period. Officials say the drug is laced with something.AND FINALLY ...So slimyWhat happens if you put dry ice into slime? Only one way to find out.