Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A bigger lead. A shocking attack. Some heartbreaking deaths. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Campaign 2016New national and battleground state polls show Hillary Clinton significantly widening her lead over Donald Trump. He's coming off one of the worst weeks of his campaign, but his surrogates insist Trump's going to narrow the gap by staying focused on the issues and avoiding petty fights, like his feud with the Khans . It's not like Clinton's problems have disappeared though. Just a couple of days ago she repeated her widely debunked claim that the FBI said her statements on her use of private email servers were "truthful."2. IranMove along, nothing to see here. That seemed to be the message President Obama delivered yesterday as his administration tried to quell the growing furor over a $400 million payment flown to Iran the same day American hostages were released. The payment was announced back in January, Obama noted, and the timing of it all was more of a coincidence than some "nefarious" ransom plot. Well, the GOP doesn't believe in coincidences -- at least when it comes to Obama -- and said it's hard to see this as anything other than a swap.3. Hot car deathsIt's heartbreaking every time we hear about it: a child dying in a hot car. It's happened again yesterday in Georgia. Two twin 15-month-old girls died after being left in a car. When police arrived on the scene, the father, who was arrested, was trying to revive them in a kiddie pool and neighbors were using ice packs, trying to lower their body temperatures. So far this year, 24 children have died in hot car incidents nationwide.4. AfghanistanThe Taliban claimed responsibility for a rocket attack on a group of tourists traveling through Herat, in western Afghanistan. Wait a minute. Tourists ... in Afghanistan? Yes, it's not recommended; many countries have longstanding advisories warning against travel to the war-torn country. But some people still make the trip. Six tourists were injured when their vans were attacked. The Taliban said "the foreigners had come to Herat for a mysterious aim."5. OlympicsThe Rio Games officially get under way today, with billions around the world set to watch the opening ceremonies. But the Games are already over for about a third of Russia's Olympic team. That's because 118 of Russia's 389 athletes have been banned from competing in Rio, the fallout from a report last month on the country's alleged wide-scale doping programs.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Pokemon stopTired of Pokemon Go players trespassing on your property? Call in an exterminator, like a company that alters the game and kills the little creatures.Today in facepalm"You're not popular, you're easy." The rantings of some sexist pig? Nope, just part of Sprite's latest ad campaign in Ireland. Yeah, they quickly nixed that one.Bye, bye bluesThe Navy's ditching its unpopular, blue camouflage uniforms , because that color only works if you're trying to hide underwater.Not so safeThought that fancy new chip in your credit card would keep the thieves at bay? Guess again. They've found a way to get around that too. (Sigh)Bad dateYou thought your dating life was bad? This guy flew all the way to China and waited 10 days to meet a girl he'd talked to online. She didn't show up.AND FINALLY ...Don't try this at homeSome guy who calls himself the "Backyard Scientist" builds a homemade "freeze-ray" and dukes it out with a flamethrower. Just be glad he doesn't live in your hood.