(CNN) Not content with pretty much taking over every aspect of your life, Facebook now wants to help you get a date . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President TrumpPresident Trump and special counsel Robert Mueller might be headed for a showdown for the ages. Trump's lawyers are prepping for the possibility Mueller could subpoena the President , sources tell CNN. That would set up a dramatic collision that could start a long court fight and test the legal limits of the President's power all the way up to the Supreme Court. Mueller's team may do this if Trump refuses to give a voluntary interview . Many legal observers believe the courts would order the President to comply with a subpoena because the Supreme Court has repeatedly ordered just that.Meanwhile, remember that letter from Trump's doctor during that 2016 campaign -- the one that declared Trump would be "the healthiest individual ever elected to the presidency"? Turns out Dr. Harold Bornstein didn't write it at all. (Spoiler alert!) Trump did. " He dictated that whole letter . I didn't write that letter," Bornstein told CNN. "I just made it up as I went along."2. Arizona teacher walkoutJUST WATCHED Arizona teacher: Daughter makes more as a nanny Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Arizona teacher: Daughter makes more as a nanny 03:473. ArmeniaAnti-government protests have rocked Armenia for weeks . And they may get worse now that the leader of the country's protest movement was blocked from a chance at being prime minister . Nikol Pashinyan was the only candidate for the position during the vote in parliament, but Armenia's ruling party refused to back him. So, Pashinyan told his supporters to hit the streets today: "We block all the streets, communications, subway and the airports ... Our struggle cannot end in a failure." The protests started after what many considered to be an attempt at an unconstitutional power grab by former President Serzh Sargsyan.4. Migrant caravanJUST WATCHED This pregnant mom is the first migrant in line for asylum Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This pregnant mom is the first migrant in line for asylum 03:365. Air pollutionIf you live on this planet, you're probably breathing some bad air. A new study from the World Health Organization says nine out of 10 people on Earth breathe highly polluted air. And all that pollution has deadly consequences. The study -- in which t he WHO collected data from more than 4,300 cities and 108 countries -- estimates the dirty air kills 7 million people each year. More than 90% of those deaths are in Asia and Africa, but the rest of the world isn't off the hook. Cities in the Americas, Europe and the Eastern Mediterranean also have air pollution levels beyond what the WHO considers healthy.JUST WATCHED These Kenyan villagers are suing the government for pollution Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH These Kenyan villagers are suing the government for pollution 04:11BREAKFAST BROWSEUnattended baggageBorder patrol agents are used to seeing strange things on the US-Mexico border, but a live tiger in a duffel bag is (probably) a first.The robots are comingThe next wave in the looming robot apocalypse is their invasion of the Smithsonian museums. Twenty-five robots started "working" there this week.JUST WATCHED The Smithsonian's newest guide is a robot Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The Smithsonian's newest guide is a robot 02:09Problem solverWant to fix the problem with Apu? The producer of a Netflix show is holding a screenwriting contest to rewrite the problematic "Simpsons" character.JUST WATCHED 'Simpsons' voice actor has regret over Apu Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Simpsons' voice actor has regret over Apu 01:34Fashion policeA Catholic high school in Michigan thought these "modesty ponchos" were just the thing for this year's prom. How wrong they were.TODAY'S QUOTE"When you hear about slavery for 400 years ... for 400 years? That sounds like a choice."Rapper and professional provocateur Kanye West, ruminating on one of the bleakest chapters in American history while visiting TMZ's headquarters. A TMZ employee, and pretty much all of Twitter, took him to task for this one.JUST WATCHED Don Lemon: Kanye doesn't know history Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Don Lemon: Kanye doesn't know history 01:31TODAY'S NUMBER$100 millionThat's how much debt iconic guitar manufacturer Gibson has (though it could be as much as $500 million). So, the company has filed for bankruptcy while it reorganizes.AND FINALLYTake your time