(CNN) After Stephen Paddock opened fire on concertgoers from his hotel room in Las Vegas in October, officers stealthily moved down the hallways with guns drawn, ordering hotel occupants to stay indoors."Lock the door, your door was open. There's someone shooting inside the casino!" an officer warns people in one room as they sweep the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino.Officers go to several floors, warning people in the lobby and hallways to take shelter or flee. Shortly after, they arrive at the gunman's hotel suite on the 32nd floor."Breach. Breach. Breach!" an officer says before a loud blast rings out. Some officers cover their ears with their hands as the explosion rips apart the doors to the gunman's suite.Police stormed his room and found the gunman dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.Paddock killed 58 people and left hundreds more injured on October 1, when he shot indiscriminately at concertgoers attending the Route 91 Harvest Festival. It became the deadliest mass shooting in modern US history.His motive remains unknown.New footageThe Las Vegas police released nearly three hours of body camera footage for the first time Wednesday, providing details on the officers' actions after the shooting.The footage captured the moments before and after they entered the gunman's room. At one point, an officer asks how many people the shooter killed."A lot," another officer responds.The footage was released after several media organizations, including CNN, argued that police information on what happened that night should be released. The Nevada Supreme Court ruled Friday that police should release the bodycam footage and 911 calls from the shooting. Police had appealed an earlier ruling that called for the material be released.Footage from squad carSheriff Joe Lombardo of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said video footage, 911 call audio and documents relating to the massacre would be released on a rolling basis. They started with the body camera footage from two officers.The first officer to enter the room did not have his body camera on, according to the Las Vegas Review-JournalThe footage begins inside an officer's squad car shortly after the shooting. As the driver rushes to the scene, police radio traffic in the background describes the unfolding carnage.One video clip shows when police approached Paddock's door, it was blocked by a room service cart.One officer notices a device at the door. "Looks like it might be a camera of some sort," the officer can be heard saying.As more officers rush past, others urge caution."Hold on, hold on," another officer says.As officers enter the suite, they see more cameras pointing down the hallway. The officers can be seen clearing the suite room by room, using dogs to search under the bed and in closets.Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Debris is scattered on the ground Monday, October 2, at the site of a country music festival held this past weekend in Las Vegas. Dozens of people were killed and hundreds were injured Sunday when a gunman opened fire on the crowd. Police said the gunman fired from the Mandalay Bay hotel, several hundred feet southwest of the concert grounds. It is the deadliest mass shooting in modern US history. Hide Caption 1 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Broken windows of the Mandalay Bay are seen early in Las Vegas on Monday. Police said the gunman fired on the crowd from the 32nd floor of the hotel. Hide Caption 2 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People cross a street near the Las Vegas Strip just after sunrise on Monday. Thousands were attending the music festival, Route 91 Harvest, when the shooting started. Hide Caption 3 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People embrace outside the Thomas & Mack Center after the shooting. Hide Caption 4 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Police arrive at the Sands Corporation plane hangar where some people ran to safety after the shooting. Hide Caption 5 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A woman cries while hiding inside the Sands Corporation plane hangar. Hide Caption 6 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Concertgoers dive over a fence to take cover from gunfire on Sunday night. Hide Caption 7 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Police take position outside the Mandalay Bay. Hide Caption 8 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A man lays on top of a woman as others flee the festival grounds. The woman reportedly got up from the scene. Hide Caption 9 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Hide Caption 10 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People are seen on the ground after the gunman opened fire. Hide Caption 11 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People run from the festival grounds. Hide Caption 12 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A woman is moved outside the Las Vegas Tropicana resort. Multiple victims were being transported to hospitals in the aftermath of the shooting. Hide Caption 13 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People are searched by police at the Tropicana. Hide Caption 14 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival An ambulance leaves the intersection of Las Vegas Boulevard and Tropicana Avenue. Hide Caption 15 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A man in a wheelchair is evacuated from the festival after gunfire was heard. Hide Caption 16 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Victims of the shooting are tended to in the street. Hide Caption 17 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Concertgoers help an injured person at the scene. Hide Caption 18 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People gather around a victim outside the festival grounds. Hide Caption 19 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A couple huddles after shots rang out at the festival. Hide Caption 20 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival An injured woman is helped at the Tropicana. Hide Caption 21 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Police and emergency responders gather at the intersection of Las Vegas Boulevard and Tropicana Avenue. Hide Caption 22 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A police officer takes position behind a truck. Hide Caption 23 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A crowd takes cover at the festival grounds. Hide Caption 24 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Police officers advise people to take cover in the wake of the shooting. Hide Caption 25 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival People tend to a victim at the festival grounds. Hide Caption 26 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Police stand at the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 27 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A woman sits on a curb at the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 28 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival Police are deployed to the scene. Hide Caption 29 of 30 Photos: Mass shooting at Las Vegas music festival A man makes a phone call as people run from the festival grounds. Hide Caption 30 of 30Sheriff defends delayIn a news briefing Tuesday, Lombardo cited cost, allocation of resources and further victimization of those affected by the shooting as reasons for delaying the release of the footage, recordings and documents.The department had to reassign detectives from their "primary responsibility" to go over the reports and footage before they were made public, making some relive the shooting all over again, he said."I want the community to know the release of the videos, 911 and documents will have a significant impact on the victims of this tragedy. We believe the release of the graphic footage will further traumatize a wounded community," he said. "And for that, we apologize."Lombardo said no employees will be made available for interviews, adding that a final comprehensive report on the shooting will be released.Police criticismPolice were criticized about their response when a timeline suggested there had been a six-minute delay between Paddock shooting a security guard and the gunman opening fire on the crowds below his hotel suite.The timeline raised questions about why police didn't arrive on the scene sooner."In the public space, the word 'incompetence' has been brought forward. And I am absolutely offended with that characterization," Lombardo said on October 13He said that during the six-minute gap, the security guard had been trying to access Paddock's room -- and that he was shot around the same time the gunman started firing on concertgoers."So there is no conspiracy between the FBI, between the (Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department) and MGM (the hotel owner). Nobody is attempting to hide anything in reference to this investigation," Lombardo said at the time."The dynamics and the size of this investigation requires us to go through voluminous amounts of information in order to draw an accurate picture."