(CNN) If you have Amazon Prime, be prepared for that price hike people have been talking about -- it's happening soon with renewals. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia investigationSome new developments in the ongoing Russia investigation: Former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe has turned over a memo he drafted related to the firing of his former boss , FBI Director James Comey, to special counsel Robert Mueller, according to a source familiar with the matter. The memo details McCabe's impressions of a meeting with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein during which they talked about Comey's firing. Meanwhile, President Donald Trump took to Twitter again Wednesday to express regret over choosing Jeff Sessions as his attorney general after reports surfaced of an angry meeting between the two men last year. At this point, it's pretty much common knowledge that Trump remains extremely frustrated over Sessions' decision to recuse himself from the Russia investigation in early 2017.2. Russian journalistA Russian journalist is back from the dead, but his roller-coaster experience is leaving the world with questions . Earlier this week, Ukrainian police reported that journalist and Kremlin critic Arkady Babchenko had been gunned down in an apparent contract killing. This development was concerning since Russian journalists and perceived political enemies of the Russian state in Ukraine sometimes turn up inexplicably dead. However, Babchenko reappeared alive and well during a press conference Wednesday. He said Ukrainian officials actually saved his life, alerting him to an assassination attempt. Faking news of his death was part of the plan to derail it.3. Kim Kardashian WestJUST WATCHED Lemon: Paper's Kardashian cover is appalling Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lemon: Paper's Kardashian cover is appalling 01:434. Extreme weatherAlberto may have been downgraded from a subtropical storm to a subtropical depression, but it is still carving a path of destruction and death in the Southeast . At least four people have died this week in North Carolina since Alberto made landfall. The latest deaths occurred Wednesday when two people were found inside a collapsed house in the western part of the state. Landslides, evacuations and flash flooding have also been reported in other states feeling Alberto's intense rainfall. The system is forecast to head into the Ohio Valley and Great Lakes region today.JUST WATCHED Alberto downgraded to a subtropical depression Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Alberto downgraded to a subtropical depression 02:325. Harvey WeinsteinTODAY'S QUOTE"After 9/11, the greatest threat to our democracy lived in a cave. Today, he lives in the White House."BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Three new Pokémon games are being released for Nintendo Switch.Ah, just in time to be Ah, just in time to be every kid's (and adult's) summer obsessionPreacher asks followers for $54 million jet, says the Lord wants it for him.And wouldn't you know, And wouldn't you know, the Lord has really nice taste in planesTrump's new diet features fish instead of steak and half the amount of bread.Finally, something all parties can agree on: Finally, something all parties can agree on: That sounds depressingThe makers of Ambien refuted Roseanne Barr's claim she was on the drug when she tweeted racist stuff, saying, "Racism is not a known side effect."-- to bed. So we can put that theory -- to bed.JUST WATCHED Ambien maker: Racism not a known side effect Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ambien maker: Racism not a known side effect 00:36AND FINALLYLiterally just 12 minutes of corgi races