(CNN) It's World Press Freedom Day . You can celebrate by checking out a wide variety of news outlets -- as long as you know we're so glad you're here with us. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White HouseRudy Giuliani went to the friendly confines of Fox News and Sean Hannity's show and dropped a bombshell. He said President Trump paid back his personal lawyer the $130,000 used to pay off porn star Stormy Daniels. That completely contradicts Trump's previous denials of knowledge of the payment . Giuliani said the payment was "perfectly legal" and didn't break any campaign finance laws because the cash was "funneled " through a law firm. Daniels' lawyer Michael Avenatti said he was "stunned" by Giuliani's claim. The White House said: Talk to the President's outside attorneys about this.2. North KoreaThe release of three Americans detained in North Korea is "imminent," CNN's been told. The North reportedly made the decision to free the Americans -- Kim Dong Chul, Kim Hak-song and Kim Sang Duk -- two months ago. President Trump hinted at movement in the case in a tweet last night . An official at the White House National Security Council said if the men are released, it would be viewed as a gesture of goodwill ahead of the planned summit between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.3. AbortionIowa lawmakers have passed what could be the nation's most restrictive abortion ban . The measure would stop doctors from performing an abortion after a fetal heartbeat is detected. That generally happens about six weeks into a pregnancy -- and before many women even know they're expecting. Gov. Kim Reynolds, a Republican, hasn't said if she'll sign it -- and is "100% pro-life," her spokeswoman said. If she does, it'd set off a legal fight, which many of the bill's supporters want. They hope it would go to the Supreme Court and help thwart Roe v. Wade (though the court overturned a similar state law a few years ago).JUST WATCHED 'Heartbeat' abortion ban struck down (2014) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Heartbeat' abortion ban struck down (2014) 01:214. Pope FrancisJUST WATCHED Pope Francis: 'God weeps' for abuse victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pope Francis: 'God weeps' for abuse victims 01:185. Starbucks arrest resolutionsThe two black men whose arrest at a Philly Starbucks set off protests, boycotts and claims of racial bias have settled with the coffee chain and the city . Terms of the Starbucks agreement weren't released, but the men will get $1 each from the city and will help Philadelphia with a $200,000 effort to help high school entrepreneurs. The men were arrested last month after they sat down in the coffee shop and didn't order anything. They said they were waiting for an acquaintance. Starbucks' CEO apologized, and the men weren't charged with a crime.JUST WATCHED Two men arrested at Starbucks demand change Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Two men arrested at Starbucks demand change 01:18TODAY'S NUMBERS9The number of people killed when an aging cargo plane from the Puerto Rico Air National Guard crashed on a highway in GeorgiaJUST WATCHED Military plane crashes in Savannah Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Military plane crashes in Savannah 00:55$3JUST WATCHED Four factors that change gas prices Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Four factors that change gas prices 01:04BREAKFAST BROWSEThe real MVPWaffle House hero James Shaw Jr. met his idol on "The Ellen Show" -- NBA star Dwyane Wade.JUST WATCHED Waffle House hero: We were tussling for gun Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Waffle House hero: We were tussling for gun 02:32Like father, like daughterSee ya later, fellaBoy Scouts of America is dropping the "boy" part of its name as it preps for the inclusion of girls into its programs.JUST WATCHED Girls can join Boys Scout of America Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Girls can join Boys Scout of America 01:37Lost in translationJUST WATCHED Macron slip-up: Calls Turnbull's wife 'delicious' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Macron slip-up: Calls Turnbull's wife 'delicious' 01:12Fight the powerQUOTE OF THE DAY"It's been a very painful time for a lot of people who worked with Matt, knew him, really care about him. ... I was always treated respectfully and appropriately."Former "Today" show host Katie Couric, on the sexual harassment claims against her former co-host, Matt LauerAND FINALLY ...So fresh, so clean