(CNN) The royal wedding is just a couple of days away! Check out the historic chapel where Britain's Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will get married. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White HouseSo much news is flying out of Washington right now, there's no shame in saying you're having trouble keeping up. Let us help you out:-- Rudy Giuliani says special counsel Robert Mueller's team told Donald Trump's lawyers it concluded it can't indict a sitting president . But a Democratic senator says not so fast.-- President Donald Trump acknowledged, by filing a financial disclosure form , that he repaid attorney Michael Cohen more than $100,000. It's believed some of the money was to reimburse Cohen for paying off adult film star Stormy Daniels.-- Newly released transcripts from the Senate Judiciary Committee show how eager Donald Trump Jr. and other members of the Trump campaign were to get dirt on Hillary Clinton in the famous Trump Tower meeting -- and how frustrated they were when that meeting didn't produce anything.-- The Senate voted to revive net neutrality after the Federal Communications Commission repealed it, but its chances in the House don't look that great: The measure's going nowhere in that chamber, and it's unlikely Trump would sign it anyway.-- The Senate Intelligence Committee voted to advance Gina Haspel's nomination to be CIA director. And she's all but assured to win Senate confirmation when the full Senate votes because just enough Democrats say they'll support her.JUST WATCHED Transcripts show quest for dirt on Clinton Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Transcripts show quest for dirt on Clinton 02:512. Niger ambushWe're getting some new insight into last year's ambush in Niger that killed four US soldiers, thanks to a video from the Pentagon . The video -- not previously released to the public and used to brief members of Congress on the October attack -- shows the body of Sgt. La David Johnson being recovered from under a tree after he was killed. Other parts of the video, stitched together from footage from drones and aircraft, show a group of seven US soldiers and four Nigerien troops who had escaped the ambush and fled into a swamp. The video also suggests the soldiers had received intelligence that an ISIS commander was in the area and they were planning to go after him, although they weren't authorized to do so.JUST WATCHED Video reveals details of deadly Niger ambush Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video reveals details of deadly Niger ambush 01:593. VenezuelaVenezuela, roiled by an economic and social crisis, has a new problem on its hands. Rioting inmates have taken over a notorious prison , just days before the presidential election there. The prison is the detention center in Venezuela's national intelligence agency. The prisoners posted videos online saying they took control because of torture and human rights violations. Venezuelan authorities said they had "normalized" the situation, an assertion the inmates refuted. It's just one more headache for the South American country, where voters -- suffering from food and medicine shortages as well as hyperinflation -- will vote on a new president Sunday.JUST WATCHED American jailed in Venezuela fears for life Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH American jailed in Venezuela fears for life 02:034. California explosionAn explosion in Orange County, California, that killed a woman was likely caused by a device that detonated and was not an accident, authorities said. The blast killed Ildiko Krajnyak of Trabuco Canyon. She owned the day spa where the explosion occurred. The blast blew out walls and windows at the business as well as injuring three other people. Was Krajnyak targeted? Investigators said it's too early to know at this point.JUST WATCHED Investigators don't believe explosion was accident Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Investigators don't believe explosion was accident 02:005. World populationIn the future, most of us will live in massive megacities. A new report from the United Nations predicts almost two-thirds of the world's population will live in urban areas by 2050. There are 33 megacities (urban centers with populations of more than 10 million) today; by 2030 there will be 43. There were just 10 in 1990. It's all part of the accelerating shift we're seeing from rural to urban living across the world. Most of this growth will come from Asia.JUST WATCHED Examining the modern city Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Examining the modern city 06:59BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Congratulations?Model Chrissy Teigen tweeted a hint overnight that baby No. 2 (with husband John Legend) may be here.JUST WATCHED Who is Chrissy Teigen? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Chrissy Teigen? 01:22Rest in peaceA Vietnam vet was going to be buried alone until a stranger helped find his familyIs there a doctor on board?JUST WATCHED Surgeon general gives medical help on flight Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Surgeon general gives medical help on flight 00:30Backstreet's backAlright! The boys released a new song , "Don't Go Breaking My Heart," the group's first new single in five years.Playing throughYes, there are lava flows and earthquakes and huge ash clouds, but when you're playing golf on Hawaii's Big Island , the game must go on.FOR YOUR SNACK BREAKBourdain in ArmeniaFor years, Armenian-American fans have been asking Anthony Bourdain when he's going to visit Armenia. He finally made it , finding a way to look at and understand the "very old and very complicated" country.JUST WATCHED Armenia: The country with a 'national bread' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Armenia: The country with a 'national bread' 01:13TODAY'S NUMBERS$8,702That's how much, per month, Scot Peterson -- the former school resource officer criticized for his response to the Parkland, Florida, school massacre -- is receiving in his state pension$500 millionThat's how much Michigan State University That's how much Michigan State University will pay to settle lawsuits brought by 332 victims of disgraced doctor Larry Nassar.JUST WATCHED MSU reaches settlement with Nassar victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH MSU reaches settlement with Nassar victims 02:25AND FINALLY ...That's what friends are for