(CNN) If you have a Twitter account, listen up. The social media giant says you need to change your password because of a bug. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Hawaii volcanoHawaii's Kilauea volcano erupted , pushing lava into a neighborhood and forcing evacuations. About 1,700 people in the Leilani Estates subdivision have been asked to head to a local shelter . Parts of Hawaii Volcanoes National Park are also closed. The eruption comes after hundreds of earthquakes, including a magnitude-5.0 tremor, shook the east side of the Big Island. Kilauea is one of the world's most active volcanoes and has had continuous activity since 1983.2. South Korea3. Michael CohenJUST WATCHED Cohen under pressure as legal fees pile up Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cohen under pressure as legal fees pile up 02:324. Arizona teacher walkoutJUST WATCHED Arizona teacher: Daughter makes more as a nanny Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Arizona teacher: Daughter makes more as a nanny 03:475. Nobel PrizeA sex abuse scandal is sidelining this year's Nobel Prize for Literature. This year's laureate will be announced in 2019 . Six members of the Swedish Academy, which awards the prestigious prize, have stepped down as allegations swirl around Jean-Claude Arnault . He's a leading cultural figure in Sweden and the husband of an ex-Academy member. He faces multiple allegations of sexual assault and harassment, including inappropriately touching Sweden's Crown Princess a decade ago. The postponement does not affect the other Nobel prizes. The prize hasn't been postponed since the height of World War II.JUST WATCHED Nobel Prize for Literature postponed amid scandal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Nobel Prize for Literature postponed amid scandal 00:30Meanwhile, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the group behind the Academy Awards, has kicked out Bill Cosby and Roman Polanski . Cosby was convicted last week of three counts of indecent assault. Polanski fled the United States 40 years ago after being charged with the statutory rape of a 13-year-old girl.JUST WATCHED Juror on what sealed Cosby's fate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Juror on what sealed Cosby's fate 01:09HAPPENING LATERThe second time aroundJUST WATCHED Trump's ever-changing stance on gun laws Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump's ever-changing stance on gun laws 03:15Jobs, jobs, jobsThe April jobs report comes out this morning. Economists predict 190,000 new jobs were added and that the unemployment rate drops to 4%.BREAKFAST BROWSECalling an audibleAmazon is backing a horse named Audible in this weekend's Kentucky Derby, all as a sly way to promote its audiobook app of the same name.Feel the viewCheck out Ford's new smart window , which helps the blind "see" the view from a car.JUST WATCHED Ford smart window lets the blind feel the view Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ford smart window lets the blind feel the view 00:58On the bucket listThe DMZ isn't just for summits for world leaders. Tourists like to visit the 160-mile, heavily fortified Korean treaty zone, too.Dropping the beatA Detroit radio station is banning Kanye West's songs from its airwaves because, well, he's Kanye West.JUST WATCHED 4 wild things Kanye said this week Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 4 wild things Kanye said this week 01:25TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeTwenty-five special new employees recently started work at Smithsonian museums around Washington. Who are they?A. service dogsB. young students who won a contestC. robotsD. refugees from SyriaPlay "Total Recall," CNN's weekly news quiz to see if your answer is right.TODAY'S NUMBER132That was the weight, in pounds, of an ovarian tumor that was removed earlier this year from a 38-year-old Connecticut woman.TODAY'S QUOTE"blaming the intern is so 1990's."Former White House intern Monica Lewinsky, needling Sen. Marco Rubio via tweet after he criticized a Politico article written by an intern . Rubio, in the article, had criticized the GOP tax cuts, then faced a big-time backlash from Republicans. He tried to walk it back by trashing the intern.JUST WATCHED Monica Lewinsky mocks Rubio over intern tweet Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Monica Lewinsky mocks Rubio over intern tweet 00:42AND FINALLYSo sweet