(CNN) Cuba just finished up two days of mourning, after a plane crashed on takeoff in Havana, killing over 100 people . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Texas high school shootingTen people -- eight students and two teachers -- were killed Friday at Santa Fe High School in Texas, after police say a fellow student opened fire. The shooting lasted a terrifying 30 minutes , with police officers and the gunman exchanging shots for 25 of those minutes. The victims included an exchange student from Pakistan , a substitute teacher and a teen killed a day before his own birthday party.The suspected shooter, 17-year-old Dimitrios Pagourtzis , was arrested and charged with capital murder and aggravated assault of a public servant. Officials haven't released a motive, but Pagourtzis has a social media footprint that features a custom T-shirt emblazoned with the words "BORN TO KILL," as well as images of Nazi, communist, fascist and religious symbols.JUST WATCHED Mom: Daughter turned down suspect's advances Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mom: Daughter turned down suspect's advances 01:382. President Trump and Justice DepartmentPresident Trump wants to know if the FBI spied on his presidential campaign. He demanded, via tweet, that the Justice Department look into it. This all comes after it was reported that the FBI sent a confidential source to speak to some Trump campaign aides about possible ties to Russia. Trump thinks this means a "spy" was embedded in his campaign, but US officials told CNN that's not the case. The Justice Department said it was going to expand its review of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act application process to look into Trump's claims.JUST WATCHED Trump: I demand DOJ look into FBI Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: I demand DOJ look into FBI 02:203. VenezuelaInflation is insanely high, people can't get enough food or medicine and citizens are fleeing the country by the thousands. But those troubles weren't enough to stop Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro from being re-elected to another term. Many countries, like the US, called the election a "sham," and the main opposition coalition boycotted it. Maduro first took office in 2013 after former President Hugo Chavez's death. He'll serve another six-year term.JUST WATCHED Venezuelan President Maduro wins re-election Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Venezuelan President Maduro wins re-election 01:074. Hawaii volcanoThe lava from the Kilauea volcano finally reached the Pacific Ocean , where it's created a whole new problem -- laze. This mashup of "lava" and "haze" is the steam clouds that are produced when the hot lava hits the ocean water. It flings hydrochloric acid and volcanic glass particles through the air, and it can cause lung, eye and skin irritations. In some cases, it can be deadly. So officials are telling folks to stay away from areas where the lava is meeting the ocean. Meanwhile Kilauea erupted twice over the weekend and at one point launched a cloud of ash 10,000 feet into the air.JUST WATCHED Aerials show lava river in Hawaii Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Aerials show lava river in Hawaii 01:215. Royal weddingThere is one detail we don't yet know, however. Just where will the Duke and Duchess of Sussex go on their honeymoon?JUST WATCHED Watch: Highlights from the royal wedding Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch: Highlights from the royal wedding 00:10NUMBER OF THE DAY29.2 millionThat's how many Americans tuned into Saturday's royal wedding, according to Nielsen . About 22.8 million American viewers watched the wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton in 2011.JUST WATCHED Meghan Markle debuts second wedding dress Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meghan Markle debuts second wedding dress 01:44BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Holo at meYou may want to ditch your fancy smartphone after you get a look at the Red Hydrogen One. It can make holograms!All that jazzYes, we know, a lot of folks don't like jazz, but it's apparently the music of choice for sharks in the sea.Do it yourselfThese high school teens were tired of inaction on guns, so they wrote up some gun control legislation themselves.Under the ashesYou'll never know what you'll find buried in the ashy ruins of Pompeii, like the almost-perfectly preserved remains of an ancient horse.HAPPENING LATERIran planSecretary of State Mike Pompeo will unveil the Trump administration's "Plan B" for Iran, after the President pulled the US out of the Iran nuclear deal.QUOTE OF THE DAYTonight they wanted me to say that, obviously we're going to pray for the victims and pray for their families, but they also wanted me to do a moment of silence. And I'm so sick of moments of silence. It's not working... So why don't we not do a moment of silence? Why don't we do a moment of action? A moment of change?JUST WATCHED Kelly Clarkson: Moments of silence aren't working Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kelly Clarkson: Moments of silence aren't working 00:10AND FINALLY ...Like a wrecking ball