(CNN) Travel to Budapest and take a ride on a railway run by children . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Trump and the Justice DepartmentLawmakers will soon be able to look at highly classified information related to the Russia investigation after officials from the Justice Department, the FBI and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence met at the White House and agreed to let members of Congress review it. This all comes as the controversy over the FBI's use of a confidential source during the 2016 campaign grows. President Trump said the source was essentially a spy "embedded" in his campaign, but US officials told CNN that's not true. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein ordered the Justice Department's inspector general to look into the matter.This deal doesn't fully settle the issue of whether Justice will ultimately have to hand over documents related to the FBI source, which have been subpoenaed by the House Intelligence Committee . The Justice Department says sharing info on the source threatens national security, but committee Chairman Devin Nunes has threatened to hold Attorney General Jeff Sessions in contempt if his panel doesn't get them.Cooper: Nunes seems to be the glue in Trump team responseCooper: Nunes seems to be the glue in Trump team response 05:00Cooper: Nunes seems to be the glue in Trump team response2. North KoreaJUST WATCHED Uncertainty surrounds US, North Korea summit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Uncertainty surrounds US, North Korea summit 01:183. SwedenSweden's ready for war -- whenever it may break out. The government there is sending out "war pamphlets" to its 4.8 million households, informing them of the perils of battle. It's the first time Sweden's done this since the 1980s. Why now? Russia, apparently. The Russians have allegedly violated Swedish airspace and territorial waters, so there's serious discussion in the country about joining NATO. Sweden has also increased defense spending, reintroduced the draft and put troops on the strategically important island of Gotland.JUST WATCHED Sweden brings back Cold War policy to face Russia (2017) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sweden brings back Cold War policy to face Russia (2017) 03:134. Texas school shootingJUST WATCHED Future NRA leader links shootings to Ritalin Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Future NRA leader links shootings to Ritalin 01:095. ZimbabweJUST WATCHED Zimbabweans look forward to reform (2017) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Zimbabweans look forward to reform (2017) 02:47TODAY'S QUOTES"He has been our partner and our close friend, but the actions he has acknowledged require us to separate wholly so that we reinforce our core values for our employees and our guests."A statement from Batali and Bastianich Hospitality Group, distancing itself from celebrity chef Mario Batali, after allegations of sexual misconduct against him led to a police investigation. Batali has denied any sex assault allegations but described his past behavior as "deeply inappropriate."JUST WATCHED Mario Batali accuser says chef is a monster Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mario Batali accuser says chef is a monster 02:07"Thinking of you all today and every day. I love you with all of me and am sending you all of the light and warmth I have to offer on this challenging day."JUST WATCHED Grande visits victims at Manchester hospital (2017) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Grande visits victims at Manchester hospital (2017) 00:58BREAKFAST BROWSERetire and chill ...Looks like you can write your own ticket after leaving the White House. The Obamas just signed up as producers for NetflixCasket cafeNow, you can have your latte with a side of "death awareness" at a Bangkok eatery that lets you rest in a coffinCape size: XXSHe might be only 4 years old, but he's a bona fide superhero. Meet Austin Perine, who feeds the homeless under the catchphrase #ShowLove.JUST WATCHED In a superhero cape, he feeds the city's hungry and homeless. And he's only 4 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH In a superhero cape, he feeds the city's hungry and homeless. And he's only 4 01:41About those brakesIt's another tough break for Elon Musk, after Consumer Reports denied its recommendation to the Tesla Model 3.HAPPENING LATERZuckerberg speaksJUST WATCHED Best of Zuckerberg's testimony to Congress Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Best of Zuckerberg's testimony to Congress 01:55To the pollsIt's primary day in Arkansas and Georgia , where political observers will keep their eyes on a handful of congressional races.TODAY'S NUMBER$36 millionAND FINALLYHey, physics