(CNN) Uber posted a rare profit in the first quarter of the year, but it might be the last one for a while. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Justice DepartmentLawmakers from both parties will be briefed today on that confidential intelligence source in the Russia investigation that President Trump has labeled a "spy." Justice Department officials will meet with two key GOP House committee leaders, then with the so-called Gang of Eight (top Republican and Democratic members of the House and Senate intelligence committees, plus congressional leaders from both parties). Originally, the Justice Department was only going to meet with Republicans, but Dems cried fouled and got in, too.The President has been peddling a conspiracy theory that the FBI spied on his 2016 campaign. US officials have told CNN the source was not a spy but was talking with Trump campaign advisers about Russians. CNN's Anderson Cooper last night said Trump is "amping up what, for all intents and purposes, is a deception campaign." Famed Watergate reporter Carl Bernstein went even further, saying, "The lies from President Trump are unlike anything we have ever seen from a modern President of the United States."2. Ireland abortion voteJUST WATCHED Abortion laws around the globe Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Abortion laws around the globe 01:333. EbolaJUST WATCHED Remembering the deadliest Ebola outbreak Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remembering the deadliest Ebola outbreak 03:004. NFL anthem protestsYou thought you'd heard the last about #TakeAKnee protests in the NFL? Bless your heart. We're definitely going to hear a lot more about them now that NFL owners have decided that players must stand during the National Anthem. Players will have the option of staying in the locker room during the anthem, otherwise they'll have to stand "and show respect" on the field. Fines and penalties await teams whose personnel take a knee (as a way to protest racial injustice -- not to disrespect the military, as some have claimed).JUST WATCHED #TakeAKnee heats up on and off the field Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH #TakeAKnee heats up on and off the field 02:265. WeatherIf you're going to be in the South over the next couple of days, get ready for the Great Memorial Day Washout. Hurricane season doesn't officially start until next Friday, but a tropical system is already forming in the Gulf of Mexico. It's expected to bring rain from Louisiana to North Carolina all through the holiday weekend . So, if you're headed to, say, Florida (like a certain newsletter writer), you might plan some indoor activities instead of prepping to lounge by the pool. By the way, the National Hurricane Center forecast for the upcoming season comes out today . Some are predicting a busy one.JUST WATCHED What you should know about hurricanes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What you should know about hurricanes 01:07TODAY'S QUOTES"Whether the US will meet us at a meeting room or encounter us at nuclear-to-nuclear showdown is entirely dependent upon the decision and behavior of the United States."Choe Son Hui, a vice-minister in the North Korean Foreign Ministry, saying that if the US continues on its current path, she'd suggest to North Korea's leadership that it reconsider the planned summit between President Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong UnJUST WATCHED North Korea official: Pence a political dummy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North Korea official: Pence a political dummy 01:45"Our recovery has been slow and extremely painful."Yulia Skripal, daughter of ex-Russian spy Sergei Skripal, on their rehabilitation after the nerve agent attack in March that almost killed them. Both are out of the hospital and have been taken to an undisclosed location.JUST WATCHED Yulia Skripal released from hospital in April Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Yulia Skripal released from hospital in April 01:48BREAKFAST BROWSEA thousand wordsBarack Obama has pretty much kept quiet about his feelings on President Trump. Not Obama's photographer. He's straight up throwing shadeJUST WATCHED Obama's photographer is trolling Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama's photographer is trolling Trump 00:50Hot, hot, hotThe hottest thing on the internet right now is CNN's Lava Cam . The guy who operates it says the sounds the lava makes are a little scary.JUST WATCHED Man hit by lava bomb describes gruesome injuries Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man hit by lava bomb describes gruesome injuries 01:42All tied up"Survivor" (hey, when's the last time we talked about that show?) held its season-ending vote last night, and it made history.'Follow your nose!'Kellogg is launching a new Froot Loops flavor -- wild berry -- because absolutely nothing is sacred anymore.JUST WATCHED Why Kellogg's is opening a cereal restaurant in NYC Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Kellogg's is opening a cereal restaurant in NYC 02:09'Charmed, I'm (not) sure'So, they're going to reboot "Charmed" -- wait, what? Why? -- and the show's former stars are not happy about it.TODAY'S NUMBER7,000The number of jobs Deutsche Bank is cutting as the German bank overhauls its investment banking businessAND FINALLY ...Souped up