(CNN) Thinking about moving to a new city and need some money in your pocket? Then check out the six places that will pay you to live there. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White HousePresident Trump and his Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen reportedly got into a heated argument during a Cabinet meeting on immigration, a source told CNN. Trump was reportedly furious at Nielsen for not doing enough to secure the border, but she stood her ground, citing the law in certain instances. Nielsen was so upset by the incident she reportedly wrote up a resignation letter. But a Homeland Security spokesman said Nielsen didn't threaten to resign. Nielsen later put out a statement saying she shares the President's frustration about the border, blaming part of the inaction on Congress.As for Trump, he took a victory lap of sorts during a rally in Elkhart, Indiana, touting the release of three American detainees from North Korea and celebrating the US leaving the Iran nuke deal. He also previewed his upcoming summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, set for June 12 in Singapore.2. Niger ambush reportJUST WATCHED Lawmaker on Niger attack: Dots don't connect Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lawmaker on Niger attack: Dots don't connect 01:513. FacebookThe Russians targeted more Americans through Facebook ads during the 2016 election cycle than previously thought. We already knew the group's ads boosted fake groups imitating Black Lives Matter Muslims and Donald Trump supporters. But new documents released by Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee show the Russians were targeting Mexican-Americans as well. The documents released included more than 3,000 Facebook and Instagram ads purchased by the Internet Research Agency. That's the troll group, linked to the Russian government, that was indicted by special counsel Robert Mueller.4. Sudan death sentenceNoura Hussein, a 19-year-old woman in Sudan, has been sentenced to death. Her crime? Stabbing her husband to death, whom she said had raped her as his relatives held her down. The shocking case is shining a light on forced marriage and marital rape in Sudan. The legal age for marriage there is 10, and marital rape is also allowed. Hussein has 15 days to appeal. She was forced to marry at 15 but fled her home and husband three years later. She was later tricked into returning by her father, who handed her over to her husband's family.JUST WATCHED Teen to die for killing husband she says raped her Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Teen to die for killing husband she says raped her 01:245. HawaiiHawaii Volcanoes National Park is closed again until further notice because of the threat of violent explosions from the Kilauea volcano. Scientists warn of many things that could come from the volcano -- acid rain, falling ash, more fissures oozing lava -- over the next couple of weeks, but they're most concerned about "ballistic projectiles." That would be huge rocks and other debris propelled through the air for miles by Kilauea's explosions.JUST WATCHED Nearly 3 dozen buildings and homes in Hawaii destroyed by hot lava and fire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Nearly 3 dozen buildings and homes in Hawaii destroyed by hot lava and fire 06:17BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Lava lossWe all saw that video of lava taking out a Ford Mustang in Hawaii. But the car's owner was more upset about the loss of his R2-D2 mailbox.JUST WATCHED Watch as lava eats a Ford Mustang Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch as lava eats a Ford Mustang 00:10North vs. SouthLong Island declares war on a Tennessee town, all in a dispute about the origins of Long Island Iced Tea.Wedding wow"The Big Bang Theory" cooked up the right equation for the "very special episode" featuring Sheldon's and Amy's wedding.JUST WATCHED 'Big Bang Theory' season ends with a wedding Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Big Bang Theory' season ends with a wedding 01:13Soul sistersIn a year dominated by tales of sisterhood, survivorship and #MeToo, women are dominating as commencement speakers at the nation's biggest schools.Strange but trueShe lost her left ear in a near-fatal car accident. So her doctors grew her a new one -- inside her forearm.HAPPENING LATERMuting the musicR. Kelly has a concert scheduled for tonight in Greensboro, North Carolina, but protesters are trying to get it canceled. The R&B singer's reputation has long been tainted by sex crime allegations. Now, #MeToo is succeeding where others have failed -- in muting him. Yesterday, Spotify removed his music from its playlists. And celebrities are urging the entertainment industry to cut ties with him as well.Prescription drug speechNUMBER OF THE DAY68That's the percentage of flight attendants who say they have been sexually harassed , according to a survey by the Association of Flight Attendants.QUOTE OF THE DAY"Now, on June 11, these unnecessary and harmful internet regulations will be repealed and the bipartisan, light-touch approach that served the online world well for nearly 20 years will be restored."Ajit Pai, FCC chairman announcing that new rules repealing net neutrality will take effect next month. Net neutrality advocates are making a last-ditch effort to undo the repeal, and Senate Democrats are currently pushing for a vote on a bill to overturn the decision as soon as next week.AND FINALLY ...Let's see what happens