(CNN) Welcome to the unofficial start of the week, and the unofficial start of summer! Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. North Korea summit2. Extreme weatherHeavy rain is causing destruction and heartache up and down the East Coast. Ellicott City, Maryland, was inundated with floodwaters , and it's the second time in two years the town has had to deal with such devastation. At least one person is missing among the sinkholes, rapidly flowing water and collapsing buildings. Farther south, two journalists were killed Monday evening in North Carolina while covering hazardous weather on the fringes of Subtropical Storm Alberto ( which has since been downgraded to a depression ). The anchor and photojournalist, both from a South Carolina TV station, were killed when a tree fell on their car.JUST WATCHED 2 journalists killed while covering Alberto Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2 journalists killed while covering Alberto 01:383. StarbucksIf you rely on Starbucks for an afternoon coffee fix, you may need to look elsewhere today. The chain is closing 8,000 stores for a few hours this afternoon for what they are calling anti-bias training. In April, two black men were arrested at a Philadelphia location after a store manager called the police because the men hadn't ordered anything. It turns out that they were waiting for a friend. The incident sparked national outrage, and the anti-bias training is part of Starbucks' response. During the training, employees will talk about their own experiences and learn about understanding both racial bias and the history of racial discrimination in public spaces in the United States.JUST WATCHED Why is Starbucks training only US workers on bias? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why is Starbucks training only US workers on bias? 01:164. ImmigrationJUST WATCHED Trump officials defend separating families at the border Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump officials defend separating families at the border 03:06Italian politicsBy the way, did you know Italy has been effectively without a government since an election in March resulted in a hung parliament? Now, the country is facing a constitutional crisis after President Sergio Mattarella rejected Prime Minister-designate Giuseppe Conte's appointed finance minister, Paolo Savona. The President is pro-European Union, while the rejected finance minister is a populist EU skeptic. To deal with the crisis, Mattarella has nominated Carlo Cottarelli , a former official at the International Monetary Fund, to form an interim government since Conte has given up on the task.JUST WATCHED Mattarella sparks outrage with Prime Minister nomination Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mattarella sparks outrage with Prime Minister nomination 01:52TODAY'S QUOTE"I didn't think about it, I climbed up and God helped me."Mamoudou Gassama, a Malian migrant in Paris who scaled an apartment building to save a child dangling from a balcony . His stunning rescue effort has earned him praise, a job offer and even French citizenship.JUST WATCHED Man scales building to save dangling child Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man scales building to save dangling child 01:48BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Teacher receives letter from Trump, returns it with grammar corrections.And now we're all And now we're all experiencing painful middle school flashbacksEurope is proposing a ban on plastic cutlery, straws and more.It's part of a long game It's part of a long game to help reduce waste and increase cleanup effortsThe NBA finals are set and it's ... the Golden State Warriors vs. the Cleveland Cavaliers -- for the fourth year in a row.Maybe basketball is just showing Maybe basketball is just showing a bunch of reruns and no one's noticedMan attacks "Ivan the Terrible" painting in Moscow museum.This may come as a shock, but This may come as a shock, but the man reportedly was drunkA junior ROTC member paid his respects to POW-MIAs, and a baseball fan followed suit.We're loving We're loving this powerful Memorial Day image from MondayTODAY'S NUMBER44AND FINALLYIt's time to cleanse your soul