(CNN) Heavy rain in your area? How about record heat? You're not alone -- there's all kinds of weird weather and geological happenings going on around the country right now. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)Melania TrumpMelania Trump is recovering in the hospital after undergoing kidney surgery . She is "in good spirits," according to a tweet from the President, but people have a lot of questions about the procedure the first lady went through and how serious it was. According to a White House statement, she "underwent an embolization procedure to treat a benign kidney condition." CNN's Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta says embolization , which purposefully cuts off blood supply to part of the body, is sometimes used to treat benign tumors. A urologist told CNN it could be a benign, fatty growth that doesn't usually pose a danger, but can be painful. Trump is the first US first lady to undergo such a serious medical procedure while in the White House since Nancy Reagan had a mastectomy in October 1987.Royal weddingThe royal wedding is just days away, but an unfortunate episode of family drama has threatened to take the attention away from the pomp and circumstance. Meghan Markle's father, Thomas Markle, told TMZ this week that he is not going to attend his daughter's wedding after it was revealed he worked with paparazzi to stage positive photos of himself preparing for the event. He said he will skip the wedding -- and the opportunity to walk his daughter down the aisle -- in order to avoid the risk of embarrassing the royal family or his daughter. Markle and her family, who are all American, have been the subject of intense scrutiny by British tabloid media, and intense criticism by the British public in general.JUST WATCHED Meghan Markle's half-sister set up dad's photos Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meghan Markle's half-sister set up dad's photos 01:38Gaza protestsJUST WATCHED Palestinians killed in Gaza protests Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Palestinians killed in Gaza protests 01:43White House leaksIt's no secret that the Trump White House has a problem with leaks, and the President took his opinions on the subject to a new level yesterday. In a tweet, he called the unknown leakers "traitors and cowards" and vowed to sniff them out. Trump actually rarely uses the word "traitor" -- which makes sense, because it is an extremely serious allegation. He has, however, used it to describe Chelsea Manning and Edward Snowden, who both leaked sensitive government secrets during the Obama administration. In an interview with Fox News, White House counselor Kellyanne Conway said she expects personnel changes as a result of leaks among the White House staff.JUST WATCHED Trump: WH leakers are 'traitors and cowards' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: WH leakers are 'traitors and cowards' 01:22Severed foot mysteryA gruesome mystery that has confounded British Columbia for more than a decade just got a new chapter. This weekend, a severed foot washed up on a beach in the Canadian province. It is the 14th such foot to appear in the area in 11 years. Nine of the 14 feet have been identified, and officials have ruled out foul play in all of the cases. Still, no one has any idea why the feet keep appearing. The most common theories are that the feet detach from the bodies of people who have committed suicide or accidentally drowned.JUST WATCHED Human feet keep washing up on Canada beaches Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Human feet keep washing up on Canada beaches 01:01QUOTE OF THE DAY"People espouse a lot about God and living with values, and when you say things like that, it's what you're going to have to live with at this point."Meghan McCain, -- on people who are defending White House aide Kelly Sadler, who joked that McCain's father Sen. John McCain was "dying anyway." Sen. McCain has brain cancer.JUST WATCHED Meghan McCain to WH staffer: How do you have a job? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meghan McCain to WH staffer: How do you have a job? 02:36BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Actress Margot Kidder has died at 69JUST WATCHED Remembering 'Superman' actress Margot Kidder Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remembering 'Superman' actress Margot Kidder 01:44States can legalize sports betting nowJUST WATCHED How DraftKings is preparing for sports betting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How DraftKings is preparing for sports betting 02:38A Florida school's prom is being investigated after a tiger showed upJUST WATCHED Caged tiger at prom sparks uproar Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Caged tiger at prom sparks uproar 00:44Harry and Meghan will sleep in separate hotel rooms before their weddingJUST WATCHED Windsor Castle: A closer look Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Windsor Castle: A closer look 02:08Airlines bans hedgehogs, insects as emotional support animalsNUMBER OF THE DAY$50,390AND FINALLY ...There are two kinds of dogs....