Story highlights "I'm pretty sure our house is gone," resident saysHope for containment Monday is "tenuous," incident commander saysAt least 100 structures have been destroyed, sheriff saysThe fire nearly doubled in size overnight, to 36,930 acres, authorities sayA sprawling wildfire in northern Colorado grew larger than the nearby city of Fort Collins on Monday, racing swiftly across a crackling dry landscape, spitting flames as far as 300 feet into the air and forcing thousands out of their homes.The Red Cross, Humane Society and other aid groups mobilized to help evacuees while at least 400 firefighters, aided by air tankers and helicopters from as far away as Canada battled the fire about 15 miles west of Fort Collins."The hope for containment today, I will tell you, is tenuous," incident commander Bill Hahnenberg said.The fire nearly doubled in size overnight to 36,930 acres, or more than 57 square miles, Larimer County Sheriff's Office Executive Officer Nick Christensen said Monday. It had been estimated at 20,000 acres Sunday night.The rapid growth made the fire zone larger than Fort Collins, which is 47 square miles.Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – CNN iReporter Bryan Maltais of Fort Collins, Colorado, took this picture of the Colorado fire from the cliffs above Horsetooth Reservoir in Larimer County. He started documenting the situation on June 10. "Many people I know have been brought to tears for the people who have lost their homes, and for the destruction of so much forest," he said. Hide Caption 1 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – Jessie Couillard watches the High Park Fire a few miles from her house in Glacier View Meadows, northwest of Fort Collins, on Monday, June 18. The lightning-ignited wildfire that started June 9 has destroyed nearly 200 homes. Hide Caption 2 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – The High Park Fire rages west of Fort Collins on Monday. The blaze has ravaged more than 58,700 acres but is about 50% contained, authorities say. Hide Caption 3 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – A truck offers a message for firefighters west of Fort Collins on Monday. More than 1,700 personnel are battling the wildfire. Hide Caption 4 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – Smoke from the High Park Fire rises above the Colorado National Guard Readiness Center near Fort Collins on Sunday, June 17. Hide Caption 5 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – A view of the High Park and its large plume of smoke from Fort Collins on Wednesday, June 13. Hide Caption 6 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – Resident Bill Janz reunites with his dog Abby on Wednesday. Abby had been at Janz's home when the fire started. She jumped into a fire truck as it approached the house, escaping the fire. Hide Caption 7 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – Pat Wright hugs daughter Stephanie Lauger after finding out Wednesday the High Park Fire hasn't destroyed her house. She will be able to return home three days after evacuating. Hide Caption 8 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – A large smoke plume rises from the High Park Fire west of Fort Collins on Wednesday. Hide Caption 9 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – People watch smoke from the High Park Fire billow. The fire has consumed more than 50,000 acres and jumped Highway 14, prompting evacuations. Hide Caption 10 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – Steve Segin of the U.S. Forest Service shows a map of the size and location of the northern Colorado blaze Tuesday, June 12, in Laporte, Colorado. Hide Caption 11 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – Residents watch the approaching fire Tuesday in the Roosevelt National Forest west of Fort Collins. Hide Caption 12 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – iReporter Victor W. Schendel, a Fort Collins photographer, has been watching the fast-moving wildfire grow and took this photo Tuesday as firefighters attempted to control the blaze. Hide Caption 13 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – Colorado's High Park Fire engulfs trees in flames near Fort Collins on Monday, June 11. Hide Caption 14 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – A helicopter drops water on a hot spot burning close to homes on Monday near Laporte, Colorado. Hide Caption 15 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – Michelle Mellenthin and Chris Huizenga watch firefighting efforts Monday from a Jeep near Laporte. Hide Caption 16 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – Flames threaten houses on the eastern front of the High Park fire near Laporte on Sunday, June 10. Hide Caption 17 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – Robby Wood, left, of Denver and his 16-year-old nephew, Jacob Wood, watch the thick smoke rise over a hill near Laporte. Hide Caption 18 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – The High Park Fire -- about 15 miles west of Fort Collins -- doubled in size overnight to 36,930 acres, or more than 57 square miles, authorities said Monday. Hide Caption 19 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – An orange-tinted sky looms over a small barn near Laporte on Sunday. Hide Caption 20 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – The fire is behaving erratically, fueled by strong winds, low humidity, high temperatures and dry brush, an official says. Hide Caption 21 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – A firefighting helicopter surveys the High Park Fire for hot spots Sunday near Laporte as the wind-driven blaze spreads. Hide Caption 22 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – A satellite image from NASA shows a plume of smoke from the High Park Fire about 20 miles northwest of Fort Collins on June 9. Hide Caption 23 of 24 Photos: Photos: Northern Colorado fire rages on Northern Colorado fire rages on – The sprawling wildfire lights up the night sky Saturday in a photo from CNN iReporter Randy S. Macht taken in Louisville, Colorado, south of the blaze. Hide Caption 24 of 24While Fort Collins was not immediately threatened by the fire, a smoky pall hung over the city of 143,000, said Stephanie Ashley, a spokeswoman for the Larimer Humane Society."It's pretty much a haze covering the town, and you can definitely smell it," said Ashley, whose shelter was housing more than 170 animals dropped off by evacuees.The fire was visible from the Colorado State University campus in Fort Collins, where students and staff were told to move activities inside if possible. The university's Foothills campus was serving as command center for the firefighting efforts.The fire is "very large, unpredictable, aggressive," Christensen said.It was moving fast, Christensen said. Flames of 15 to 20 feet were commonplace, with some reaching 300 feet, he said.While lower temperatures, slightly calmer winds and higher humidity were offering modest help to firefighters, the fire was entirely uncontrolled Monday morning, he said.More than 100 structures had been damaged or destroyed, Sheriff Justin Smith said Monday. He did not know if they were homes, sheds or other buildings.Incident commanders said the fire is highly likely to continue to grow, but no further evacuations were currently on tap.Although the exact number of people under evacuation orders was not known Monday, authorities had put out more than 2,600 calls notifying residents of the evacuation orders, Christensen said.He urged residents to heed to orders, saying fire crews cannot afford to spend too long in any one location.Marty Schriefer, whose 42-acre property lies within the Roosevelt National Forrest, has kept an eye on the fire map since evacuating Sunday afternoon."Looking at the maps today, I'm pretty sure our house is gone," he said Monday.His wife called him at work Saturday morning to tell him she could see the looming smoke."We spent Saturday afternoon collecting up valuables, paperwork, irreplaceable stuff -- photos, stuff like that," he said.Things looked promising through most of the weekend, Shriefer said, but when the fire suddenly came within an hour of his home Sunday, he knew it was time to go."It exploded, really," he said. "Very quickly at about 2:00 huge black plumes went up from that area."The couple is staying in his wife's office in Fort Collins with their dog and cat they were able to rescue. They were forced to leave two other cats behind."It was tough to leave them," he said. "But we couldn't catch them and we had to get out. We left food and water in the house and left the door open for them."Still others were chancing the risks and staying at home.Grant Campbell of Laporte has lived in the same house for 22 years and has been ordered to leave numerous times over the years but never had any damage.He's only followed the orders once, and now he's used to living through fires in the area."If we walk outside, it's just like being next to a campfire," he said. "It's smoky in the house, too. You get used to it in your home, so you just don't smell it anymore."Campbell said it would take an "apocalypic event" to get him to leave."It really is beautiful in a kind of surrealistic way, but you also have to remember that it puts people and their homes in danger," he said.CNN iReporter David J. Thrush watched a dramatic sunset Sunday through the smoke cloud 40 miles away in Eaton, Colorado."It was an eerie scene," he said. "The sunset was a blazing ball of red, almost apocalyptic, through the smoke.Only one injury has been attributed to the fire, heat exhaustion suffered by a firefighter on Sunday, Christensen said.However, one person was listed as missing, Christensen said.The fire was one of the highest priorities for fire managers nationwide, Hahnenberg said. Five of the nation's nine heavy air tankers had been assigned to the fight, Larimer County officials said.Hahnenberg expects the number of firefighters assigned to the team to grow to 500 or 600 by Tuesday.Five smaller tankers, some from Canada, and seven helicopters were also working the fire, authorities said.Hahnenberg's Type 1 incident response team -- the most advanced and capable available for a wildfire -- began working the Colorado fire Sunday night, according to Larimer County authorities.The cause of the fire is under investigation, but authorities believe lightning is to blame.First measured at two acres early Saturday, the High Park Fire has grown exponentially in the time since -- including more than doubling in size Sunday and again overnight into Monday.