Story highlights Mary Kennedy, 52, died of asphyxiation due to hanging, a local official saysShe is called a gifted architect and a "relentless advocate of green design"She married Robert F. Kennedy Jr. in 1994, and the couple had four children togetherHe filed for divorce in 2010, the same year Mary Kennedy was arrested for DWIMary Kennedy, the estranged wife of Robert F. Kennedy Jr., had been in the headlines for her alcohol and drug problems, but is remembered by relatives as a devoted mother and pioneer of "green" architecture.A dark-haired beauty, Mary Richardson met Robert F. Kennedy Jr. through her friendship with his sister Kerry Kennedy, a roommate from school.The couple married in a civil ceremony in 1994 when the designer was six months pregnant, according to the Westchester County Journal News in New York. One month before the wedding, Kennedy divorced his first wife, Emily Black, the mother of his two oldest children, the newspaper said.He and Mary Kennedy were together for 16 years before he filed for divorce two years ago, said her family attorney, Kerry A. Lawrence.Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Saoirse Kennedy Hill died in August 2019 at the family home in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts. Her mother, Courtney Kennedy Hill, was one of the 11 children of the late Robert F. Kennedy and his human rights activist wife, Ethel Kennedy. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies On July 16, 1999, John F. Kennedy Jr. and his wife, Carolyn Bessette-Kennedy, died in a plane crash off the coast of Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts. Her sister was also aboard the plane. Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – Mary Kennedy, right, from whom Robert F. Kennedy Jr. filed for divorce in 2010, was found dead on May 16, 2012. A medical examiner said she died of asphyxiation due to hanging. She was 52. Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kara Kennedy, daughter of Ted Kennedy, died of a heart attack in 2011 after her daily workout. Seen here, she speaks at her father's funeral in 2009. Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Doctors diagnosed Ted Kennedy with a malignant brain tumor in 2008 and he had surgery the same year. He died more than a year later at age 77. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – Michael Kennedy, one of RFK's 11 children, died in a skiing accident in Aspen, Colorado, in 1997. The father of three had suffered an onslaught of negative publicity over an alleged affair with a family babysitter. Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – David Kennedy, another son of RFK, died in 1984 of a drug overdose in a hotel after being ousted from the family vacation home in Palm Beach. Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies In 1973, Ted Kennedy's 12-year-old son Edward Jr. lost a leg to bone cancer. Kennedy is seen here skiing with his father in 1974. Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – Joe Kennedy, the eldest son of RFK, was involved in a 1973 car accident that left a female passenger paralyzed for life. He later served as a Massachusetts congressman and considered a bid for governor but decided against it, citing family troubles. Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – Sen. Ted Kennedy drove a car off a bridge on Massachusetts' Chappaquiddick Island after a party in 1969. Aide Mary Jo Kopechne died in the accident. He is shown wearing a neck brace at her funeral. Controversy over the incident effectively ended his presidential aspirations. Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies While campaigning for the Democratic Party's presidential nomination, Sen. Robert F. Kennedy was assassinated in June 1968. Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Kennedy family woes – In 1964, Ted Kennedy suffered a broken back when his private plane crashed in Southampton, Massachusetts. Indiana Sen. Birch Bayh also survived the crash, but the pilot and one of Kennedy's aides were killed. Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies President John F. Kennedy was assassinated during a motorcade in Dallas on November 22, 1963. He was 46. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies At just 28, Kathleen Kennedy died in a plane crash in 1948. She had married William John Robert Cavendish, the Marquess of Hartington, who was killed in World War II. Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies Joseph P. Kennedy Jr., the eldest son of Joseph and Rose Kennedy, died at 29 in a plane crash during World War II. Hide Caption 15 of 16 Photos: Kennedy family tragedies President Kennedy's sister, Rosemary Kennedy (center), had part of her brain removed in 1941 in a relatively new procedure known as a prefrontal lobotomy. The family had long described her as "intellectually slow." The operation only worsened her condition and she was institutionalized until her death in 2005 at age 86. Hide Caption 16 of 16The pair, who had four children together, were still married at the time of her death Wednesday at home in Westchester County.The 52-year-old died of asphyxiation due to hanging, said Donna Greene, a spokeswoman for the Westchester County medical examiner.Both sides of the family paid tribute to Mary Kennedy as a devoted mother."It is with deep sadness that the family of Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. mourns the loss of Mary Richardson Kennedy, wife and mother of their four beloved children. Mary inspired our family with her kindness, her love, her gentle soul and generous spirit," a statement by her husband's family said.Outside the home, Mary Kennedy made her mark as an architect who pushed the boundaries of eco-friendly design.She was "a tremendously gifted architect and a pioneer and relentless advocate of green design who enhanced her cutting edge, energy efficient creations with exquisite taste and style," her husband's family said.She also advocated finding a cure for food allergies and asthma and was a co-founder of the Food Allergy Initiative, the world's largest private source of funding for food allergy research, Robert F. Kennedy Jr.'s family said.JUST WATCHED Mary Kennedy's last days Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mary Kennedy's last days 03:35JUST WATCHED Mary Kennedy found dead at her home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mary Kennedy found dead at her home 00:58JUST WATCHED Author: It's hard being a Kennedy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Author: It's hard being a Kennedy 01:45Her own family paid tribute to "our beloved sister Mary, whose radiant and creative spirit will be sorely missed by those who loved her," including the four children she loved "without reservation."Mary Kennedy's death was the latest for a family that has seen its share of tragedy."We know from a history of this family, it's very hard being a Kennedy, either being a blood Kennedy or being married to one," Laurence Leamer, a Kennedy biographer, said on CNN's "Erin Burnett OutFront.""The overwhelming celebrity, the attention, the obligations, the expectations that you're supposed to do something with your life. It's very, very hard."In 1968, Robert F. Kennedy Sr. was assassinated in California while making a run for the White House. His death came less than five years after his brother, President John F. Kennedy, also died at the hands of an assassin.More than three decades later, in 1999, John F. Kennedy Jr.; his wife, Carolyn Bessette Kennedy; and his sister-in-law, Lauren Bessette, died when a plane he was piloting crashed in the waters off Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts.David Kennedy died of a drug overdose in 1984, and Michael Kennedy was killed in a skiing accident in 1997. Both were sons of Robert F. Kennedy Sr.Robert F. Kennedy Jr., a prominent environmental lawyer who is a professor at Pace Law School in White Plains, New York, is the third of 11 children born to Ethel and Sen. Robert F. Kennedy.Details of the couple's private life were exposed after Robert F. Kennedy Jr. filed for divorce from Mary Kennedy in Westchester County on May 12, 2010.The next evening, according to police records, police in Bedford, New York, responded to a 911 call. When police arrived at the Kennedy residence, they found the couple in an argument over taking their four children to a carnival at St. Patrick's School.According to a "domestic incident" report filed by the officer on the scene, "Mr. Kennedy stated that his wife was intoxicated and was acting irrational so he took the children to the carnival to remove them from the situation."No one was injured, the report said.Two days later, Mary Kennedy was arrested for driving while intoxicated.At the time, Bedford Police Lt. Jeff Dickans told CNN that a Bedford police officer saw Kennedy's 2004 Volvo swerving onto the curb of Greenwich Road in Bedford and asked her to pull over.Kennedy had slurred speech and a blood-alcohol content above 0.08%, the legal limit in New York. She was charged with driving while intoxicated.Lawrence, her family attorney, said the case resulted in a reduction to a violation, the criminal charge was dismissed, and her driver's license was suspended for 90 days.A second arrest occurred in August of the same year in the town of Pleasant Valley, in which she was charged with driving while impaired by prescription drugs, Lawrence said. Those charges were dismissed completely in July 2011 because all the drugs were prescribed and taken as her physician advised, the attorney said.As a designer, Mary Kennedy sought to advance environmental principles and green technologies.In a book titled "Kennedy Green House" that was co-authored by Robert F. Kennedy Jr., he describes how he and his wife restored their flooded, black-mold-infested home, transforming it into an eco-friendly residence.A website devoted to the project describes how it focused "on maximum energy and water efficiency and improved indoor air quality to benefit the future of our planet and health of our children."In the book, her husband wrote that she had worked for the design firm Parish-Hadley and worked on the renovation of the Naval Observatory in Washington, the official residence of the U.S. vice president.