Editor's note: This post is part of the Overheard on CNN.com series, a regular feature that examines interesting comments and thought-provoking conversations posted by the community.Thousands of teaching positions have reportedly been lost in the last month, but one of those layoffs has sparked a lively dialogue among CNN.com's readersIn May, the Sacramento City Unified School District in California handed a pink slip to Michelle Apperson, a sixth-grade teacher at Sutterville Elementary. Apperson was gracious about the job loss, telling CNN affiliate KXTV, "It hurts on a personal level because I really love what I do ... But professionally, politically, I get why it happens."Many were not so accepting of the decision. Why? Because Apperson was not a newbie, nor had her performance been called into question. In fact, she had taught at Sutterville for nine years and recently was selected Teacher of the Year for the entire district.After her ouster, one student wrote a letter, according to KXTV, that began: "Dear Ms. Apperson, I will miss you dearly. I will never forget you! You are the best teacher ever. I am very lucky that you are my teacher!"The district's decision came amid a $43 million budget shortfall, which forced Sacramento schools to slash its workforce. The layoffs were based on seniority, per state law, and a district spokesman said that while the situation was unfortunate, "It's another sign of how education's funding really needs an overhaul."A woman identifying herself as the ousted teacher commented that she sympathized with district's plight:Apperson: Wow! I am glad that this article stirred emotion from people. In my hometown, I did the original interview to bring awareness to two main topics - children are affected when we cut education, and in CA we can make a difference as citizens to vote for education. 25 percent of my school's staff got pink slips. They are good people who work hard for kids. I have taught for 13 years, 9 in this district. My district is trying hard to make ends meet, they do not want to hurt kids. The union is trying hard to protect good teachers at school doing what's right. My perspective and that of the reporter was to shed light on the subject and stir awareness. Thank you, for talking about education and kids. I do not know the answer to any of it, but I do know that being named Teacher of the Year in my school district is a great honor and I am humbled.One reader said the reason for the firings was simple and compared the situation to that faced by many business during the economic crisis:BD: The fact that we are firing teachers rather than hiring them as a means to deal with the current economic climate is the saddest fact of all. It's no different than a bankrupt business selling off its physical assets.Many readers chose to home in on the teacher unions, whether it was to blast them or laud them. During the back and forth, one purported teacher claimed Sacramento had no choice:nopenotbuyingit: Willing to bet this is a media ploy on behalf of the "poor mistreated union teachers." What better way to spark outrage than to fire/lay off the "teacher of the year." Sorry, no sympathy ... manage your $ better and you can keep the good ones.12yearteacher: Without a union, the "Good" teachers would be the cheap teachers if the districts had their way.JonPeter: The outrage should be seniority over quality and a system that supports that notion, including the unions.12yearteacher: There is no easy fix for this issue. If we go on performance based or "merit pay," it's based on test scores. The majority of my students have a learning disability of some form and, therefore, their test scores will be lower simply because of their differences. I've won multiple awards from the community and my students, but if we go to performance-based evaluations, I would be fired in a heartbeat! Seniority, as unfair as it may seem, is the only way to make things fair when budgets get tight!pablo: Good teachers lose their jobs all the time because of union seniority rules and tenure. The unproductive and lazy who have been there the longest benefit from such rules.bpuharic: And in non-union states they lose them for politics, personalities, etc. Non-union states generally have worse educational results than unionized states.jlaud: The problem is clear. The teacher unions don't care about performance, period. They only look at seniority. They'll throw the baby out with the bath water. The process for teachers need to change and it can't be based solely on test scores.Some commenters focused their ire on school administrators, saying they rarely hear of them being laid off when times got rough. The conversation then turned to basketball, as many readers questioned the logic of a society that allows athletes to be paid millions, compared to teachers' thousands:MillieBea: You very rarely hear about administrators being laid off -- hmmmmmhypatia: Of course not. Administrators are the entire problem, and if they'd cull that herd, there would be a lot more $ for the classrooms.DonJuan1943: We pay a teacher $29,000 per year. We pay a drug-addled, tattooed, Cadillac Escalade-driving professional basketball player/thug $15,000,000 per year. And we cannot afford to rehire the teacher. Excuse me while my head explodes.You are correct: If people would quit watching basketball, the players would not get paid that much. Maybe we can start broadcasting math class on TV to bring in sponsorship money?GypgyGal: That's right – 1 professional basketball player is worth over 500 teachers. Such a sad reflection of our society.Dan: The professional basketball player isn't paid for with taxpayer dollars, DonJuan.Is your school district experiencing layoffs and budget cuts? What do you think of the changes, and how do you explain them to kids?