Story highlights Students will also be required to complete 50 hours of community serviceEach admitted to wrongdoing, the school district saysVideo of the brazen bullying went viral and spurred international outrageFour middle school students caught on camera verbally abusing their bus monitor have been suspended for a year and will be required to complete 50 hours of community service, school district officials said Friday.Recorded by a student with a cell phone camera on what was the second-to-last day of school, the brazen bullying went viral and spurred international outrage.The incident occurred in Greece, New York, near Rochester."Following individual meetings this week with school and district administrators, each family waived their right to a hearing and agreed to one-year suspensions from school and regular bus transportation," the Greece Central School District said in a statement.The students will be transferred to the district Reengagement Center, it said. Each will also be required to complete 50 hours of community service with senior citizens and must take part in a formal bullying prevention program.JUST WATCHED Bus monitor Karen Klein on kid bullies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bus monitor Karen Klein on kid bullies 06:14JUST WATCHED Community reacts to bus monitor bullying Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Community reacts to bus monitor bullying 01:16JUST WATCHED Bullied monitor: Kids should be punished Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bullied monitor: Kids should be punished 02:40JUST WATCHED Dad: Son threatened for tormenting woman Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dad: Son threatened for tormenting woman 04:39In the video, the students taunt their bus monitor -- Karen Klein, 68 -- with a stream of profanity, insults, jeers and ridicule. Some boys demanded to know her address, saying they wanted to come to her house to perform sexual acts and steal from her.One comment from a boy aboard the bus was especially painful, she said. He told her that she does not have family because "they all killed themselves because they didn't want to be near you."Klein's eldest son took his own life 10 years ago, according to CNN affiliate WHAMThe bullying continued unabated for about 10 minutes in the video, as a giggling student jabbed Klein's arm with a book and made fun of her weight.Klein is a bus monitor for the Greece Central School District, and the harassers attended a district school, Athena Middle School. Each of the students admitted to wrongdoing, the school district said.In an interview with CNN's Anderson Cooper this month, Klein said children misbehaved occasionally, but the recorded incident was unlike any other she had experienced.Despite the torment, she said she does not believe her harassers are bad kids."Not deep down. But when they get together, things happen," she said.