(CNN) The U.S. women's soccer team annihilates Japan to win the World Cup. Greeks reject Europe's latest bailout offer, which could definitely hit your 401(k). And less than two days remain before the deadline to reach a deal to prevent Iran from making nuclear weapons.It's Monday, and here are five things to know for your new day:WORLD CUP VICTORYActually, five goals. That's how many the U.S. women's soccer team scored to defeat -- nay, destroy -- Japan in the World Cup final Sunday. And three of those goals belonged to just one woman: Carli Lloyd . It has been 16 years since Team USA last hoisted the trophy, and to topple the defending champions in a 5-2 win was oh so sweet.IRAN NUCLEAR TALKSTick, tock: Tuesday is the deadline for reaching an agreement to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. Negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program " Tuesday is the deadline for reaching an agreement to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. Negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program " could go either way ," U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said Sunday. Americans aren't too optimistic. A recent CNN/ORC poll shows 64% doubt an agreement will come through.JUST WATCHED The U.S. and Iran through the years Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The U.S. and Iran through the years 01:49CONFEDERATE FLAGShould it stay or should it go? After much national debate, South Carolina lawmakers will meet Monday to discuss After much national debate, South Carolina lawmakers will meet Monday to discuss whether to take the Confederate flag down from state Capitol grounds . The governor already said she wants it gone. But it'll take a two-thirds majority vote in both chambers of the General Assembly before an effort to remove the flag reaches her desk.JUST WATCHED Woman who removed Confederate flag speaks out Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman who removed Confederate flag speaks out 03:27GREEK CRISISBig rejection: Greek voters gave a thumbs down to Europe's latest bailout offer Sunday, raising the prospect that the country Greek voters gave a thumbs down to Europe's latest bailout offer Sunday, raising the prospect that the country could now suffer an even worse economic disaster and lose its place in the euro. More than 60% of voters sided with left-wing Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, who hopes to force European leaders to hand over more money with less austerity attached and cancel some of Greece's enormous debt. And since the markets will probably freak out Monday, expect to see a (temporary) hit to your 401(k)JUST WATCHED What the vote means for Greece Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What the vote means for Greece 03:56POPE IN SOUTH AMERICAReaching out to the poor: Pope Francis started an eight-day tour of his native South America on Sunday, landing in the Ecuadorian capital of Quito. So why is the Pope -- an Argentine -- visiting Ecuador, Bolivia and Paraguay? The Vatican says Francis chose these countries, three of the region's poorest, to Pope Francis started an eight-day tour of his native South America on Sunday, landing in the Ecuadorian capital of Quito. So why is the Pope -- an Argentine -- visiting Ecuador, Bolivia and Paraguay? The Vatican says Francis chose these countries, three of the region's poorest, to continue his focus on the plight of the world's needy