(CNN) New details in the New York prison escape emerge. Another Republican jumps into the 2016 race. And divorce lawyers everywhere rejoice over the Ashley Madison hack.It's Tuesday, and here are five things to know for your New Day.NEW YORK PRISON BREAK: David Sweat had more freedom than we ever imagined at Clinton Correctional Facility. The convicted killer and former escapee told authorities he got out of his cell every night for months , because the guards were asleep. Sweat said he wandered around the maze of tunnels and pipes in the bowels of the prison and eventually devised the escape plan that he and fellow escapee Richard Matt used.Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat were on the run after they escaped from the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York, on Saturday, June 6. Matt was killed by police on Friday, June 26. Sweat was captured two days later and is now in police custody. Hide Caption 1 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Hide Caption 2 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Matt's body lies on the ground after he was killed by police on June 26. Hide Caption 3 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Sweat was captured on June 28, multiple law enforcement sources briefed on the investigation told CNN. He was shot twice in a field by a New York state trooper and taken into custody in upstate New York, close to the Canadian border. Hide Caption 4 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Sweat is bloodied, shirtless and cuffed at the ankles, and he appears to be breathing into an oxygen mask after his capture on June 28. Hide Caption 5 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Police escort ambulances from an area where law enforcement officers were searching for Sweat on June 28. Hide Caption 6 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officials are seen in the side-view mirror of a car as they stand guard June 28 in Duane, New York. Hide Caption 7 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners FBI agents conduct a search for Sweat near Duane on June 28. Hide Caption 8 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An FBI agent searches for Sweat on June 28. Hide Caption 9 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers man a roadblock in Malone, New York, on Saturday, June 27. Hide Caption 10 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers talk to motorists at a roadblock near Malone on June 27. Hide Caption 11 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers stand guard near the site where Matt was shot and killed in Malone on June 26. Hide Caption 12 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A New York State Police officer stands guard near the shooting scene in Malone on June 26. Hide Caption 13 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers and a forest ranger, back, search a barn in Owls Head, New York, on June 26. Hide Caption 14 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Corrections officers stop a vehicle Monday, June 22, in Owls Head, about 20 to 25 miles west of the prison where Matt and Sweat escaped. The discovery of the escapees' DNA in a cabin re-energized the search for the fugitives. Hide Caption 15 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A bus transports corrections officers to a search area in Mountain View, New York, on June 22. Hide Caption 16 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers use all-terrain vehicles in Mountain View on June 22. Hide Caption 17 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Corrections officers search railroad tracks near Friendship, New York, on Sunday, June 21, after a possible sighting of the fugitives. Hide Caption 18 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers gather along Route 20 near Friendship on June 21. Hide Caption 19 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A task force of U.S. Marshals and police officers go door to door near Dannemora, New York, searching for the two escaped murderers on Tuesday, June 16. Hide Caption 20 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Troopers stop civilian cars at a checkpoint outside Dannemora on Monday, June 15. Hide Caption 21 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Prison tailor Joyce Mitchell, charged with aiding the escape, appeared in court on Monday, June 15. Hide Caption 22 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers work a roadblock in Saranac, New York, on Saturday, June 13. Hide Caption 23 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement personnel line the roadside on June 13 as they search an area in Cadyville, New York. Hide Caption 24 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police prepare equipment during the search on Thursday, June 11. Hide Caption 25 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Authorities block a road in Cadyville during the manhunt on June 11. Hide Caption 26 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A Vermont state trooper heads out on Lake Champlain in Burlington, Vermont, on June 11. Hide Caption 27 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers question a woman who lives near the Dannemora prison on Wednesday, June 10. Hide Caption 28 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An employee stands guard at the Clinton Correctional Facility on June 10. Hide Caption 29 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An officer checks the trunk of a car at a checkpoint near the Dannemora border on June 10. Hide Caption 30 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Officers continue their search in Essex, New York, on Tuesday, June 9. Hide Caption 31 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An officer walks through a swampy area near Essex on June 9. Hide Caption 32 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers search a wooded area in Dannemora on Monday, June 8. Hide Caption 33 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners State corrections officers monitor traffic June 8 at the Clinton Correctional Facility. See photos of the route the escaped prisoners took Hide Caption 34 of 34CAMPAIGN 2016Add one more: This morning Ohio Gov. John Kasich will become the This morning Ohio Gov. John Kasich will become the 16th Republican candidate in the presidential race as he makes his announcement in Columbus. Kasich sports an impressive resume, but he may struggle to raise money and gain attention in such a crowded field. Meanwhile, Donald Trump fought through a tough weekend to find himself at the top of yet another national poll. But the news wasn't all good for The Donald. An editorial published last night in the Des Moines Register -- the top newspaper in the crucial caucus state of Iowa -- demands that Trump get out of the race. "Trump has proven himself not only unfit to hold office, but unfit to stand on the same stage as his Republican opponents." Ouch.JUST WATCHED Who Is John Kasich? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who Is John Kasich? 02:10SANDRA BLAND DEATHSuicide or murder?: Dashcam video is expected to be released today in the mysterious Dashcam video is expected to be released today in the mysterious death of Sandra Bland . Bland, who lived in Chicago, was in Texas for a new job at a college. But she was pulled over by police for an alleged traffic violation and then arrested after police said she became "uncooperative." She was later found not breathing in her cell. Police said she hanged herself, but family and friends don't believe that, saying she was anything but suicidal. A district attorney said yesterday the inquiry into her death will be treated like a murder investigation.JUST WATCHED District Attorney describes Sandra Bland jail video Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH District Attorney describes Sandra Bland jail video 01:43ASHLEY MADISON HACKChristmas in July: Besides -- obviously -- spouses, who else might be the most interested in getting hands on that hacked data from Ashley Madison? Besides -- obviously -- spouses, who else might be the most interested in getting hands on that hacked data from Ashley Madison? Divorce lawyers . If the hackers make good on threats to make public the sensitive information stolen from the cheaters' dating site of choice, it could trigger a flood of divorces. One Canadian attorney says he thinks most lawyers would start raising their rates.JUST WATCHED How secure is Ashley Madison's data? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How secure is Ashley Madison's data? 02:40ALZHEIMER'S DISEASESpit detector: Is your saliva the key to beating Alzheimer's? Researchers think so. A Is your saliva the key to beating Alzheimer's? Researchers think so. A "saliva test" was presented this week at the 2015 Alzheimer's Association International Conference in Washington. The test examines saliva samples and looks at changes in it as the potential way to detect Alzheimer's early. The study has not been published or peer-reviewed, so more research will be needed before the saliva test could be used as a detection tool.