(CNN) Joyce Mitchell pleads guilty. Time is running out in the search for the missing Florida teens. And it's launch day for Windows 10.It's Wednesday, and here are five things to know for your new day.JOYCE MITCHELL: The prison tailor is now a prisoner herself. Joyce Mitchell pleaded guilty yesterday to charges related to her helping two murderers stage a dramatic escape from an upstate New York prison earlier this summer. She faces up to seven years in prison. A district attorney said there's not enough evidence to pursue a murder conspiracy charge against her, since recaptured inmate David Sweat didn't corroborate her story that killing her husband was part of the plan.JUST WATCHED Joyce Mitchell's graphic prison break confession Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Joyce Mitchell's graphic prison break confession 03:37MISSING FLORIDA TEENSHope holds: Today marks the Today marks the fifth day that a pair of Florida teens have been missing in the Atlantic Ocean. The Coast Guards says, when the water is warm, people can survive in the water for up to five days. So will the search for the boys continue beyond today? The Coast Guard and the boys' family and friends say they're not giving up hope, despite the increasingly dire circumstances. Five cutters, a Navy ship and multiple planes are involved in the search, and the teens' families have offered a $100,000 reward for their rescue.JUST WATCHED Search for missing teens enters fifth day, spans three states Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Search for missing teens enters fifth day, spans three states 01:43DEFLATEGATEPunctured pride: Is Tom Brady feeling deflated this morning (sorry, couldn't help myself) after his Is Tom Brady feeling deflated this morning (sorry, couldn't help myself) after his four-game suspension was upheld? We don't know, but we do know that the NFL Players Association will file an appeal. NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell apparently affirmed the suspension he handed down in May after learning that Brady destroyed the cell phone that may have held texts relevant to the investigation. Brady's attorney called the whole thing a sham, since Goodell essentially rubber-stamped his own decision.JUST WATCHED NFL: Tom Brady destroyed cell phone Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NFL: Tom Brady destroyed cell phone 02:22LION KILLEDOrthodontal outrage: Walter James Palmer may be the most unpopular dentist in America right now. The Minnesota man is accused by Zimbabwean officials of Walter James Palmer may be the most unpopular dentist in America right now. The Minnesota man is accused by Zimbabwean officials of killing a prized lion named Cecil. Authorities say Cecil -- who was skinned and beheaded -- was killed illegally. A police official in Zimbabwe said that two Zimbabweans had been arrested in the case and that police were looking for Palmer, who maintains the hunt was conducted legally and he had "no idea" that Cecil was an international favorite. #CecilTheLion is trending on social media, and some folks are putting Palmer's picture and phone number in their posts.Here's the abomination that spent $55,000 to kill a lion, sever it's head and skin it, all for sport. #CecilTheLion pic.twitter.com/wJCkegeUAn — Dylan Holderfield (@TheKingSlender) July 29, 2015WINDOWS 10Launch day: If you're one of those folks who seriously regretted getting Windows 8 (or were smart and stuck with Windows 7) today will be a great day. Why? Because Microsoft is launching Windows 10, a free upgrade for just about everyone currently running Windows 7 and 8. Windows 8 users get their Start button back, and Windows 7 users get a noticeably prettier version of Windows. CNNMoney declares the new operating system If you're one of those folks who seriously regretted getting Windows 8 (or were smart and stuck with Windows 7) today will be a great day. Why? Because Microsoft is launching Windows 10, a free upgrade for just about everyone currently running Windows 7 and 8. Windows 8 users get their Start button back, and Windows 7 users get a noticeably prettier version of Windows. CNNMoney declares the new operating system "seriously great." Well, it better be, since Microsoft predicts 1 billion devices will be running Windows 10 in a couple of years.