(CNN) The gun used in a San Francisco killing belonged to a federal agent. South Carolina's Confederate flag debate moves to the House. And Subway ditches its pitchman.It's Wednesday, and here are the "5 things to know for your New Day":SAN FRANCISCO KILLINGThere's a twist in the shooting death of a San Francisco woman by an undocumented immigrant. The gun used in the killing of Kate Steinle belonged to a federal agent, a source with knowledge of the investigation told CNN. What does it mean?No one's saying, but the suspect, Juan Francisco Lopez-Sanchez, had earlier told CNN affiliate KGO-TV that he found the gun wrapped inside a T-shirt before it accidentally went off. He pleaded not guilty yesterday to murder and weapons charges.CONFEDERATE FLAGFlag debate: Two more votes in the South Carolina State House, and the Two more votes in the South Carolina State House, and the Confederate battle flag could be history . It would still be around, of course, but it wouldn't be flying on the Capitol grounds. The bill to remove it passed the Senate on a 36-3 vote.Lawmakers in the House voted 93-18 to send it straight to the floor for debate. They'll tackle it today, starting at 10 a.m. ET. A final vote on the package could come as soon as tomorrow. Gov. Nikki Haley is among those calling for the flag to come down.JUST WATCHED South Carolina senator defends Confederate flag Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH South Carolina senator defends Confederate flag 01:10SUBWAY PITCHMANNo longer on a roll: Jared Fogle, the Subway pitchman, has nothing to pitch anymore. Jared Fogle, the Subway pitchman, has nothing to pitch anymore. He and the sandwich chain have parted ways after investigators raided his Indiana home. Agents aren't saying why they carted out computers, but Subway said it believed the raid was linked to an ongoing investigation involving a former Jared Foundation employee.Fogle rose to fame 15 years ago in a commercial centered on claims that he dropped 245 pounds on a diet involving Subway subs and exercise.JUST WATCHED Subway cuts ties with Jared after FBI raid Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Subway cuts ties with Jared after FBI raid 02:03CANDIDATE CLINTONJUST WATCHED Hillary Clinton: The full interview Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hillary Clinton: The full interview 18:57GREECETick tock: Europe is giving Greece until Sunday to prove it's serious about Europe is giving Greece until Sunday to prove it's serious about getting its economy in order . It's a stark warning. If the two sides can't get together on this, Athens will be out of the euro and printing its own money again.Greece has no cash, and the nation is teetering on the financial abyss. Europe could cough up billions more in bailouts, but not without Greece agreeing to wide-ranging reforms -- something it has balked at before.