Centennial, Colorado (CNN) It's déjà vu all over again. One by one, neighbors, teachers, coaches, classmates and teammates are stepping up to a witness stand to share their memories of a "perfect kid."They describe a quiet, sweet-natured, respectful boy who did well in school, got along with others and was kind to those less fortunate.A few months ago, the good boy's name was Jahar.This one is being called Jimmy.With the experienced eye of a trained observer and an avid trial-watcher's curious mind, Ann O'Neill is "The 13th Juror" for CNN's audience. Follow @AnnoCNN on Twitter daily.These boys, Dzhokhar "Jahar" Tsarnaev and James "Jimmy" Holmes, grew up to do horrible, unspeakable things. They killed strangers in places where people seek enjoyment, leaving others bloodied, broken and maimed. They made simple pleasures frightening, scarring communities once secure in the belief that "bad things don't happen here."Both boys had parents who wanted nothing more than for them to succeed and live out the American dream. But the boys felt out of place as they entered their teens, and eventually lashed out with unspeakable violence. For Jimmy and Jahar, the dream died before they reached 25.They now stand convicted of committing multiple murders deemed especially cruel, heinous and depraved. And they are becoming poster boys for the death penalty at a time when some states are declaring moratoriums and the method of execution is being challenged in the courts.For all their similarities, there is one glaring difference between these two capital cases. While Tsaraev's crime was cloaked in terrorism and what a judge called "the siren song" of martyrdom in the name of radical Islam, Holmes' story will focus on mental illness. It is the terror from within.We know what happened to Jahar Tsarnaev. His jury was unmoved by the photos of the cute little boy with the big brown eyes, or the fact he was helpful at school, attended a prom for the special ed kids and was nicer to girls than some of his friends.JUST WATCHED Voices of Aurora: Coping with grief, conquering life Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Voices of Aurora: Coping with grief, conquering life 04:13He awaits his death sentence, locked away in isolation at the federal Supermax prison, a 90-minute drive south of the courtroom where Holmes and his lawyers are appealing to jurors' mercy.Tsarnaev was tried, convicted and condemned in a federal court in Massachusetts, where there is no state death penalty. Holmes' case is unfolding in a state court in Colorado, which has the death penalty on the books, but seldom uses it.Neither state has held an execution in a generation.Holmes has been convicted of 24 counts of first-degree murder. No one questions that he suffers from schizophrenia. No one questions that his illness is severe. It wasn't enough for a successful insanity defense, perhaps, but his lawyers are far from finished.At this stage of the trial, when punishment is determined and mercy is granted or denied, the focus shifts from the crime to the man who committed it. The seats reserved for the families of the dead and wounded were empty as the defense took control of the courtroom narrative."This phase will be, in its entirety, all about the person who committed these horrors, these aggravated murders," prosecutor George Brauchler said. "When he was a child, he had an uneventful life," he added, ticking off the things that later went wrong for Holmes: "One love lost, one school lost, one career lost.""When things didn't work, the crime took place," the prosecutor said.The jury already has found that Holmes deliberately opened fire during the first moments of July 20, 2012, at a crowded movie theater in suburban Aurora. He intended to kill, and he acted with extreme indifference for the value of human life.He wasn't out of his mind, jurors determined; he knew what he was doing was wrong."We accept your verdicts," defense attorney Rebekka Higgs told jurors on Thursday, after they found that the cruelty of the murders qualified for the ultimate punishment.It is possible to be legally sane but seriously mentally ill, Higgs said. "But for his mental illness, this crime never would have occurred. It's not a justification or an excuse, but a reason to choose life."And so, the defense is pulling out all the stops to humanize Holmes. It brought 18 witnesses from California to Colorado to talk about his wonder years."You're going to hear about Mr. Holmes' life from the beginning because you are now responsible for that life," Higgs told the jury. "And you need to know everything about that life."Ten of the witnesses took their turns before the jury, until a juror fell ill. The jury was sent home Friday, but the testimony continued, captured on video to be shown later.The witnesses described a polite, mellow kid who seemed to enjoy an idyllic childhood with parents who were loving, supportive and engaged. There were piano lessons and soccer and basketball practices.The haunted house the Holmes family created in their garage each Halloween was a hit in the Oak Hills neighborhood near Castroville, California. The small agricultural community is known as "The Artichoke Capital of the World."Photos: Colorado shooting victims Photos: Colorado shooting victims Jonathan T. Blunk, 26, served for five years in the U.S. Navy. He died shielding a friend from the gunfire inside the theater. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Alexander J. Boik, 18, was remembered by friends and loved ones as a "great person" whose "craziness touched hundreds," according to a Facebook page created in his memory. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Air Force Staff Sgt. Jesse E. Childress, an Air Force reservist, was a cybersystems operator on active duty. He was 29. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Gordon W. Cowden, 51, took his two teenage children to the theater. His children escaped unharmed. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Jessica Ghawi, 24, was an aspiring sports reporter. She grew up in Texas before moving to Denver to try break into the television market there. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Petty Officer 3rd Class John Thomas Larimer, 27, served in the Navy like his father and grandfather. He had been in the service for about a year. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Matthew R. McQuinn, 27, died trying to provide cover for his girlfriend, Samantha Yowler, during the shooting, according to a family attorney. Yowler survived. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Micayla C. Medek, 23, known to her friends as Cayla, was "very spiritual and close to God," cousin Anita Busch told CNN. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Veronica Moser Sullivan, 6, was the youngest victim of the Aurora theater shooting. She had just learned how to swim. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Alex M. Sullivan, 27, went to the movie to celebrate his birthday with his wife, two days before their first wedding anniversary. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Alexander C. Teves, 24, recently graduated from the University of Denver with a master's degree in counseling psychology. He died protecting his girlfriend. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Rebecca Ann Wingo, 32, joined the Air Force after high school, became fluent in Mandarin and served as a translator, according to CNN affiliate WFAA. Hide Caption 12 of 12There were big neighborhood parties on Christmas and July 4, and kids roamed freely across unfenced back yards. Holmes was one of a group of boys who had the run of the place. In the photographs, he is smiling. He seems happy.Listen to what people who once knew Holmes and his family had to say:"He was a normal kid. He was very popular, a very bright student. The other kids liked to play with him. He was good in sports," said Suzanne Jimenez Diaz, a secretary at Castroville Elementary School."He was a gentleman. He was sweet. He just had a nice, mellow mannerism to him," said Martin Thomas Barrett, a neighbor from Oak Hills. He said Holmes was one of a pack of about 15 neighborhood boys, including his sons, who played together. "It seemed like all those boys were having a great childhood," he added, saying Holmes seemed "extremely happy" as a boy of 9 or 10. He described Holmes' parents, Robert and Arlene, as "superparents.""He was a very nice kid, very fun to be around. He was just there having fun with everyone else," said Barrett's son, Joseph, who went by the childhood nickname of "Jo-Jo." Joseph Barrett is now an attorney in Las Vegas."He was a good student and I thought he had potential," said his former piano teacher, Claire Ann Vincent. She said she was sorry to lose him when the Holmes family moved to San Diego as he reached the age for middle school."He was a good boy," said middle school band teacher James Gerald Posteraro. Holmes traded the piano for a trumpet. He didn't seem to have trouble fitting in, and he received straight As and high marks for effort and citizenship."I remember a very funny, very sweet, quiet kid who kind of flew under the radar," said Patrick Silva, who played soccer with Holmes during middle school and high school. "I didn't have anything bad to say about him on the field, and I don't give my respect willy-nilly.""He was pretty much a model child," said Barbara Stop Martin, a neighbor in San Diego who hired Holmes for yard work when he was 17. She said he worked hard and did everything he was asked to do.Photos: Mass shooters in U.S. history Photos: Mass shooters in U.S. history Dylann Storm Roof is accused of opening fire at a church in Charleston, South Carolina, killing nine. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Mass shooters in U.S. history Adam Lanza killed 20 children and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, in 2012. He also killed his mother. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Mass shooters in U.S. history James Holmes opened fire inside a packed movie theater in Aurora, Colorado, also in 2012. He killed 12 people and injured 70. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Mass shooters in U.S. history Jared Loughner killed six people and wounded former U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords in Arizona. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Mass shooters in U.S. history Seung-Hui Cho was responsible for the 2007 massacre at Virginia Tech, which left 32 people dead. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Mass shooters in U.S. history Aaron Alexis killed 12 people inside the Navy Yard in Washington in 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Mass shooters in U.S. history Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold were responsible for killing 13 people at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colorado, in 1999. Hide Caption 7 of 7But, Holmes wasn't as social in San Diego as he had been in Castroville. By the end of middle school, he began to withdraw. Classmate William Tyler Reese recalled him as a group of five "quiet guys" who ate lunch together in the cafeteria, went to movies and played paintball."I would say he was a 'by himself' kind of guy," said Thomas James Oliver, who taught Holmes in advanced history and English classes in high school. "Jimmy was really tough to get to know." He doesn't remember him having friends.He had won medals in cross-country as a child, but by the time he got to high school, Holmes didn't have the stamina or form to succeed, said his coach, Lori Villareal Godwin. He usually came in last, but he kept coming to practice.She described Holmes as "a shadow figure." She never saw him smile and found his social awkwardness "painful." He kept his head and eyes down and gave off a vibe: "I can see you but please don't talk to me." He seemed to be "in his own little world.""He was part of us, but not part of us," Godwin said. "If I didn't take roll, I probably wouldn't even know he was there." He was so shy that she wondered if he had a learning disability. But, she added, other students told her Holmes was "crazy smart."Crazy smart. Is that what happened to the model child, the happy boy?By high school, Holmes was struggling with his "broken brain" and having thoughts about killing people, he revealed in a notebook he mailed to a psychiatrist hours before going on his killing rampage.Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The public gets its first glimpse of James Holmes, then 24, the suspect in the Colorado theater shooting during his initial court appearance July 23, 2012. With his hair dyed reddish-orange, Holmes, here with public defender Tamara Brady, showed little emotion. He is accused of opening fire in a movie theater July 20, 2012, in Aurora, Colorado, killing 12 people and wounding 70. Holmes faces 166 counts, almost all alleging murder or attempted murder. He has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. More photos: Mourning the victims of the Colorado theater massacre Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police release the official photo from Holmes' booking after the shooting. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes often had a blank stare during his July 23, 2012, court appearance, seeming to be in a daze. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Victims and their relatives and journalists watch the proceedings in 2012. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Flags fly at half-staff on July 23, 2012, at the Arapahoe County Courthouse in Centennial, Colorado, where the movie theater shooting suspect had his first court appearance. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Arapahoe County District Attorney Carol Chambers talks to reporters July 23, 2012, before heading into the courthouse. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Family members of the victims arrive at the courthouse July 23, 2012, for the suspect's first court appearance. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The Century Aurora 16 multiplex in Aurora becomes a place of horror after a gunman opened fire July 20, 2012, in a crowded theater. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes is accused of opening fire during a midnight screening of the Batman movie "The Dark Knight Rises." Holmes purchased four weapons and more than 6,000 rounds of ammunition, police say. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police investigate outside the Century 16 multiplex July 21, 2012, a day after the mass shooting. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the suspect's car outside the theater. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police escort a sand-filled dump truck containing improvised explosive devices removed from Holmes' booby-trapped apartment on July 21, 2012. Authorities have said they believe the suspect rigged his place before leaving for the movie theater. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police break a window at the suspect's apartment July 20, 2012, in Aurora. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers speak with Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper, center, outside the suspect's apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers prepare to disarm the booby-trapped apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officials tow cars outside Holmes' apartment July 21, 2012. Police disassembled devices and trip wires set up in the apartment. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers prepare to place an explosive device inside the apartment. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Debris flies out a window, right, after law enforcement officers detonate an explosive device inside the apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People mourn the victims during a vigil behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers in Aurora. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman grieves during a vigil for victims behind the theater. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A distraught woman receives counseling from the Rev. Quincy Shannon, left, in front of Gateway High School in Aurora, where the families of the missing met after the shooting. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Lin Gan of Aurora holds back tears as she speaks to reporters about her experience in the Century 16 theater. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People embrace before a vigil for victims behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators work on evidence near the apartment of James Holmes on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Members of the Aurora Police Department SWAT unit walk near the Holmes' apartment. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Television news crews gather in front of the home of Robert and Arlene Holmes, parents of suspect James Holmes, in San Diego on July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A popcorn box lies on the ground outside the Century 16 movie theater. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Adariah Legarreta, 4, is comforted by her grandmother Rita Abeyta near the Century 16 Theater in Aurora. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Jessica Ghawi, an aspiring sportscaster, was one of the victims. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman waits for news outside Gateway High School, a few blocks from the scene of the shooting at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police chief Daniel J. Oates speaks at a press conference near the Century 16 Theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the trash container outside the suspect's apartment in Aurora. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A Federal ATF officer carries protective gear onsite at the home of the shooting suspect. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre President Obama speaks on the shootings at a July 20, 2012, event in Fort Myers, Florida. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Moviegoers are interviewed at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers gather at the theater July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators were a common sight at the theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Authorities gather at the shooting suspect's apartment building in Aurora. Police broke a second-floor window to look for explosives the suspect claimed were in the apartment. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Screaming, panicked moviegoers scrambled to escape from the black-clad gunman, who wore a gas mask and randomly shot as he walked up the theater's steps, witnesses said. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Onlookers gather outside the Century Aurora 16 theater. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman sits on top of her car near the crime scene. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police block access to the Town Center mall after the shooting. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Cell phone video taken by someone at the theater showed scores of people screaming and fleeing the building. Some, like this man, had blood on their clothes. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Witnesses told KUSA the gunman kicked in an emergency exit door and threw a smoke bomb into the darkened theater before opening fire. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre What is believed to be the suspect's car is examined after the shooting. Hide Caption 45 of 45None of the people who has testified so far mentioned seeing signs of serious mental illness. That evidence is yet to come, and according to the defense, it is the key to the argument for mitigation."The only reasonable explanation here is a psychotic break, a broken mind," said defense attorney Higgs. All the elements that made his crime especially heinous "were born of disease," she told jurors, saving her most dramatic argument for last:"We don't kill people for being sick."