Story highlights The Texas Rangers and the FBI are investigating Sandra Bland's deathPolice say she hanged herself in a jail cell, but friends and family express doubt"Ms. Bland's family does make valid points that she did have a lot of things going on in her life that were good," says a Texas DA(CNN) The investigation into the death of Sandra Bland is being treated like a murder investigation, a district attorney said Monday.Police say they found the 28-year-old dead last week after she hanged herself with a plastic bag inside the Waller County Jail, where she was incarcerated after allegedly assaulting an officer during a July 10 traffic stop.The Texas Rangers and the FBI are investigating her death."It is very much too early to make any kind of determination that this was a suicide or a murder because the investigations are not complete," Waller County District Attorney Elton Mathis told reporters. "This is being treated like a murder investigation."He said the case would go to a grand jury.Photos: Remembering Sandra Bland Photos: Remembering Sandra Bland The mother of Sandra Bland, Geneva Reed-Veal, center, and sister Shavon Bland mourn at the gravesite during the funeral at Mount Glenwood Memory Gardens West cemetery, on Saturday, July 25, in Willow Springs, Illinois. Bland was arrested on July 10 for allegedly assaulting an officer during a routine traffic stop. On July 13, she was found dead in her jail cell. Police say the 28-year-old hanged herself with a plastic bag. Her family disputes that. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Remembering Sandra Bland Hundreds of people attended Sandra Bland's funeral near the Chicago suburb where she grew up. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Remembering Sandra Bland Shavon Bland, the sister of Sandra Bland, holds a flower over her gravesite on July 25. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Remembering Sandra Bland Sandra Bland's sister, Sharon Cooper, kneels at Bland's burial site on July 25. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Remembering Sandra Bland Jeanette Williams places a bouquet of roses at a memorial for Sandra Bland near Bland's alma mater, Prairie View A&M University, in Prairie View, Texas, on Tuesday, July 21. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Remembering Sandra Bland Geneva Reed-Veal, Bland's mother, hugs family members at a memorial service for her daughter July 21 in Prairie View. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Remembering Sandra Bland Angel Duncan cries Sunday, July 19, while speaking at a vigil at Bland's alma mater. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Remembering Sandra Bland Lanitra Dean hugs Bland's friend Carlesha Harrison during the Prairie View vigil on July 19. Bland had been arrested by the Texas Department of Public Safety, which said she became "argumentative and uncooperative" during a traffic stop. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Remembering Sandra Bland The Revs. James Miller and Lana Parks Miller lead a prayer walk remembering Bland in Lisle, Illinois, on July 19. Bland lived in the Chicago suburb of Naperville, Illinois. Her family questions that she would commit suicide. Sharon Cooper, one of Bland's sisters, said the idea of her sister committing suicide is "unfathomable" to her. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Remembering Sandra Bland Quanell X, leader of the New Black Panther Party, holds a plastic bag while speaking at a rally at the Waller County Courthouse in Hempstead, Texas, on Friday, July 17. Authorities said there were no cameras in Bland's jail cell to show that she hanged herself, but cameras in the hallway show no one entering or leaving the cell before her body was discovered. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Remembering Sandra Bland From left, Hempstead Mayor Michael Wolfe, Prairie View Mayor Frank Jackson and Texas state Sen. Lois Kolkhorst listen as Waller County District Attorney Elton Mathis, right, speaks to the media in Hempstead on July 17. "The death of Sandra Bland will not be swept under the rug," Mathis said. The Texas Rangers and the FBI are investigating her death. Hide Caption 11 of 11Read More