Watch "Children for Sale: The Fight to End Human Trafficking" Sunday at 7 p.m. ET or on CNNgo.(CNN) Sex trafficking isn't just something happening in Third World countries. It's happening in the United States, every day.Watching #ChildrenForSale on CNN. It's outrageous that this is happening right here in GA. #EndChildTrafficking #EndSexTrafficking#endsextrafficking Stories like these are always tough to watch, even worse when they are happening within our cities under our noses.Many viewers found the personal stories heartbreaking. "Sacharay" shared her story of being trafficked when she was just 14.This little girl said she had sex with forty guys in one day. 💔 #EndSexTrafficking #CNN#endsextrafficking it's so sad to see that in this world there are people who can abused and exploit innocent kidsRachel McCool, who like Sacharay has been able to start fresh, said in the documentary there wasn't a time when she didn't know what sex was. Her story struck a chord.@BRComm How brave this young woman is; how heartbreaking her story is. #endsextraffickingMcCool described working at what appeared to be a strip club, but which functioned more like a modern-day brothel. Brandi Richard, a public speaker and advocate, tweeted that she now thinks differently about the attractiveness of some strip clubs after watching the documentary.This documentary is making me think very differently about the glamour and appeal of strip clubs... #EndSexTrafficking — Brandi R. Richard (@BrandiRRichard) July 22, 2015Social media users emphasized that even though it might be a tough issue to talk about, it's worth educating people about sex trafficking.Seriously people knowledge is power turn on your tvs and be aware @CNN #endsextrafficking — Victoria Cerqueira (@vcerqueira90) July 22, 2015Thank you @CNN and @jadapsmith for airing this #endsextrafficking special report. This is real and it is vital young women know that. — Marlisa Goldsmith (@MarlisaTHV) July 22, 2015This documentary is so heartbreaking. It makes me so mad, sad, and disgusted, but I can't pretend this isn't going on. #endsextrafficking — Ranada's Reads&Reels (@readsandreels) July 22, 2015Leading up to the documentary, Pinkett Smith joined CNN for a Facebook chat and answered questions from the audience.Asked what we can do to educate sons and daughters about this issue, Pinkett Smith said sex trafficking is a difficult topic but an important conversation."I wish I could tell you that there is an easy way to talk about this subject matter," she said. "I've only found that the most effective way is to be honest with your children about the issue."The average age a child is first trafficked is 13 or 14, according to a U.S. Department of Justice report published in 2010.Children are often vulnerable, in part, because of a lack of attention in their homes.The Twitter community urged parents to show their children love and attention on a regular basis.@CNN children turning to strangers that pretend to listen! Have we become to busy to listen to our kids? #EndSexTrafficking — Ivette (@ivetteim29) July 22, 2015Want to #EndSexTrafficking in the #USA? Easy...talk to your children. Pay attention to them @CNNFreedom — Jessica Harris (@Blaueve) July 22, 2015Hug ur kids!!! Tell'em you love them... it could mean the world to them!!! @CNN @jadapsmith #endsextrafficking — Deidra Blalock (@LovelyDB83) July 22, 2015Facebook users also asked what steps could be taken to help end sex trafficking and what they could do to protect their loved ones."There are many organizations that have fantastic survivor speaker networks that can send survivors to your school, church or local community center to tell their stories," Pinkett Smith said. "It is very impactful to hear directly from survivors on how they were targeted, how they were able to escape and ultimately survive."Viewers also expressed a sense of urgency and a hope for change.This @CNN special on human trafficking is slaying my heart. How could you not want to do something? #endsextrafficking — Denisse (@thugnanny) July 22, 2015It's our duty as women to help mentor and support other women. Young girls are crying for guidance and love. #EndSexTrafficking — Jess C (@SimplyJ3ss_) July 22, 2015@jadapsmith seminars should happen in every city. So many girls/women are missing. Keep talking about it please. #endsextrafficking — Garcia (@garciascloset) July 22, 2015If you or someone you know is a victim of human trafficking, call the National Human Trafficking Resource Center at 1-888-373-7888.