(CNN) When Richard Matt broke out of prison, he was looking forward to seeing his daughter. "I always promised you I would see you on the outside," he wrote to her in a letter.She received it in the mail three days after he and fellow inmate David Sweat escaped from the Clinton Correctional Facility in upstate New York, according to The Buffalo NewsState corrections officers monitor traffic June 8 at the Clinton Correctional Facility. See photos of the route the escaped prisoners tookAn officer walks through a swampy area near Essex on June 9.An officer walks through a swampy area near Essex on June 9.Officers continue their search in Essex, New York, on Tuesday, June 9.Officers continue their search in Essex, New York, on Tuesday, June 9.An officer checks the trunk of a car at a checkpoint near the Dannemora border on June 10.An officer checks the trunk of a car at a checkpoint near the Dannemora border on June 10.An employee stands guard at the Clinton Correctional Facility on June 10.An employee stands guard at the Clinton Correctional Facility on June 10.Law enforcement officers question a woman who lives near the Dannemora prison on Wednesday, June 10.Law enforcement officers question a woman who lives near the Dannemora prison on Wednesday, June 10.A Vermont state trooper heads out on Lake Champlain in Burlington, Vermont, on June 11.A Vermont state trooper heads out on Lake Champlain in Burlington, Vermont, on June 11.Authorities block a road in Cadyville during the manhunt on June 11.Authorities block a road in Cadyville during the manhunt on June 11.New York State Police prepare equipment during the search on Thursday, June 11.New York State Police prepare equipment during the search on Thursday, June 11.Law enforcement personnel line the roadside on June 13 as they search an area in Cadyville, New York.Law enforcement personnel line the roadside on June 13 as they search an area in Cadyville, New York.Department of Corrections officers work a roadblock in Saranac, New York, on Saturday, June 13.Department of Corrections officers work a roadblock in Saranac, New York, on Saturday, June 13.Prison tailor Joyce Mitchell, charged with aiding the escape, appeared in court on Monday, June 15.Prison tailor Joyce Mitchell, charged with aiding the escape, appeared in court on Monday, June 15.New York State Troopers stop civilian cars at a checkpoint outside Dannemora on Monday, June 15.New York State Troopers stop civilian cars at a checkpoint outside Dannemora on Monday, June 15.A task force of U.S. Marshals and police officers go door to door near Dannemora, New York, searching for the two escaped murderers on Tuesday, June 16.A task force of U.S. Marshals and police officers go door to door near Dannemora, New York, searching for the two escaped murderers on Tuesday, June 16.New York State Police officers gather along Route 20 near Friendship on June 21.New York State Police officers gather along Route 20 near Friendship on June 21.Corrections officers search railroad tracks near Friendship, New York, on Sunday, June 21, after a possible sighting of the fugitives.Corrections officers search railroad tracks near Friendship, New York, on Sunday, June 21, after a possible sighting of the fugitives.A bus transports corrections officers to a search area in Mountain View, New York, on June 22.A bus transports corrections officers to a search area in Mountain View, New York, on June 22.Corrections officers stop a vehicle Monday, June 22, in Owls Head, about 20 to 25 miles west of the prison where Matt and Sweat escaped. The discovery of the escapees' DNA in a cabin re-energized the search for the fugitives.Corrections officers stop a vehicle Monday, June 22, in Owls Head, about 20 to 25 miles west of the prison where Matt and Sweat escaped. The discovery of the escapees' DNA in a cabin re-energized the search for the fugitives.Department of Corrections officers and a forest ranger, back, search a barn in Owls Head, New York, on June 26.Department of Corrections officers and a forest ranger, back, search a barn in Owls Head, New York, on June 26.A New York State Police officer stands guard near the shooting scene in Malone on June 26.A New York State Police officer stands guard near the shooting scene in Malone on June 26.New York State Police officers stand guard near the site where Matt was shot and killed in Malone on June 26.New York State Police officers stand guard near the site where Matt was shot and killed in Malone on June 26.New York State Police officers talk to motorists at a roadblock near Malone on June 27.New York State Police officers talk to motorists at a roadblock near Malone on June 27.Department of Corrections officers man a roadblock in Malone, New York, on Saturday, June 27.Department of Corrections officers man a roadblock in Malone, New York, on Saturday, June 27.Law enforcement officials are seen in the side-view mirror of a car as they stand guard June 28 in Duane, New York.Law enforcement officials are seen in the side-view mirror of a car as they stand guard June 28 in Duane, New York.Police escort ambulances from an area where law enforcement officers were searching for Sweat on June 28.Police escort ambulances from an area where law enforcement officers were searching for Sweat on June 28.Sweat is bloodied, shirtless and cuffed at the ankles, and he appears to be breathing into an oxygen mask after his capture on June 28.Sweat is bloodied, shirtless and cuffed at the ankles, and he appears to be breathing into an oxygen mask after his capture on June 28.Sweat was captured on June 28, multiple law enforcement sources briefed on the investigation told CNN. He was shot twice in a field by a New York state trooper and taken into custody in upstate New York, close to the Canadian border.Sweat was captured on June 28, multiple law enforcement sources briefed on the investigation told CNN. He was shot twice in a field by a New York state trooper and taken into custody in upstate New York, close to the Canadian border.Matt's body lies on the ground after he was killed by police on June 26.Matt's body lies on the ground after he was killed by police on June 26.Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat were on the run after they escaped from the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York, on Saturday, June 6. Matt was killed by police on Friday, June 26. Sweat was captured two days later and is now in police custody.Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat were on the run after they escaped from the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York, on Saturday, June 6. Matt was killed by police on Friday, June 26. Sweat was captured two days later and is now in police custody.Matt's words were relayed to the paper, which cited unnamed law enforcement officials. The envelope was postmarked before the June 6 breakout.The paper said there is no indication that Matt's daughter knew ahead of time he was planning the break. CNN has reported that she cooperated with investigators while Matt was on the lam with Sweat."I'm a man of my word," Matt wrote to his daughter.But he was unable to keep it. Police shot him dead after he aimed a 20-gauge shotgun at an officer.He and Sweat had split up. Matt had been hitting the bottle hard after they broke into a cabin. And he was too out of shape to keep up, Sweat told officers when he was captured this week. That led to arguments.When a U.S. Border Patrol special operations team found Matt a week ago, he was lying alone behind a fallen tree. He wouldn't obey their commands.Once they had shot him, officers could smell alcohol coming from his body from feet away.Matt's body arrived Friday at the John O. Roth Funeral Home in Tonawanda, New York, according to funeral home employee Marguerite Wilson.Sweat captured days laterTwo days later, an officer shot and wounded Sweat less than 2 miles from the Canadian border.JUST WATCHED Can David Sweat's testimony be trusted? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Can David Sweat's testimony be trusted? 01:47From his hospital bed in Albany, New York, he has spilled baffling details about the prison break and the men's time on the run.Sweat and Matt pulled off the escape not once, but twice, he told investigators. The first time was a dry run that took them through a labyrinth of pipes and tunnels, but they didn't like the street they popped up in from a manhole. It had too many houses nearby.While authorities initially spoke of the possible use of power tools in the escape, Sweat has said they found a sledgehammer in an underground passageway.It was probably left behind inadvertently by a construction worker, according to a law enforcement official briefed on Sweat's interviews with investigators. The men supposedly used the sledgehammer to break down a brick wall on their way out of the maximum-security prison, the official said.Sweat told investigators that he and Matt used only hacksaws to cut through their cell walls and a steam pipe inside the prison, Clinton County District Attorney Andrew Wylie told CNN.Close callsDuring their time as fugitives, they had several close calls as authorities closed in, Wylie said. While hiding in a hunting cabin, they heard voices nearby at one point.Photos: New York prison escape Photos: New York prison escape Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat were discovered missing on Saturday, June 6, at the 5:30 a.m. "standing count" of inmates at the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Gov. Andrew Cuomo, shown during a tour of the prison, said of the escapees: "These are dangerous people. They are nothing to be trifled with." Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape The hole the inmates cut into a cell wall to escape. The men had side-by-side cells and apparently had obtained power tools to cut through the steel wall, authorities said.Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Looking from the catwalk, this is the hole the inmates cut into the wall. The pair followed the catwalk toward a series of tunnels. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Gov. Cuomo studies the maze of pipes the prisoners navigated during their escape. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Cuomo climbs a ladder as he examines the prisoners' escape route. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Cuomo examines the escape route of the prisoners. "It was elaborate; it was sophisticated," he said. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape The inmates used power tools to drill through steel pipes as they made their escape. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Gov. Cuomo examines a pipe the inmates cut through. Authorities don't know how the prisoners got the power tools. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Officials look at the manhole through which the inmates crawled to freedom. Hide Caption 10 of 10And after the pair split up, Wylie said, Sweat saw a law enforcement officer walk right by him as he hid in a tree stand used by hunters.Officials said the two had originally planned to come out of a manhole and meet prison tailor Joyce Mitchell, who would drive them away. The Buffalo News reported that Matt encouraged Mitchell to establish a relationship with his daughter via text messages and phone calls.The convicted murderers would then kill Mitchell's husband, Lyle, before fleeing to Mexico , officials said.Sweat has told investigators it was Mitchell's idea for them to kill her husband, according to the law enforcement official briefed on his interviews. But her attorney denied that accusation Wednesday.Joyce Mitchell told authorities that Matt and Sweat hatched the plan to kill her husbandThe night of the escape, Mitchell did not show up, forcing the fugitives to improvise on the run for more than three weeks.Hidden in meatSweat will be turned over to the Corrections Department after his release from the hospital. He is listed in fair condition and is expected to remain at Albany Medical Center for a few more days, according to the hospital.Mitchell, the prison tailor, has admitted to smuggling hacksaw blades by hiding them in frozen hamburger meat and having the meat delivered to Matt, a law enforcement official said last week.She has been arrested and charged with promoting prison contraband and criminal facilitation.Another employee, Gene Palmer , is accused of taking the meat to the inmates. He's charged with promoting dangerous prison contraband, two counts of destroying evidence and one count of official misconduct.The escape has prompted prison officials to beef up security.Broader corruption?And the investigation extends beyond Mitchell and Palmer.Three members of the prison's executive team, along with nine security staff employees, have been placed on paid administrative leave as part of the review of the escape, the New York State Department of Corrections and Community Supervision said.The nine security staff employees include a watch commander who was covering for the usual midnight-duty lieutenant, a sergeant who was working mandatory overtime the night of the escape, and a female officer who had just transferred to Clinton, according to a Corrections Department source.One possible avenue of investigation involves a melee with about 30 inmates that broke out at the prison one week before the escape, a Corrections Department source told CNN. The department approved a partial lockdown that did not include the honor block, where Matt and Sweat were housed.The May 29 brawl was reportedly brought under control in less than a minute and left one inmate with injuries that were not life-threatening, the source said.The FBI is investigating possible broader corruption at the prison, law enforcement officials briefed on the case said. Agents are looking into whether drug trafficking or other criminal behavior among employees and inmates took place, officials said.Some employees told investigators that there was heroin use among prisoners and an alleged drug trade involving employees.