Story highlights "Today is about mourning; tomorrow is about debate," police union head saysOfficers who turned back on mayor at funeral feel "betrayal," union head addsRamos is posthumously made honorary NYPD chaplain of 84th PrecinctRamos and partner are also promoted to detectives first grade posthumouslyAn extraordinary sea of dark blue flooded the streets around a Queens church Saturday morning -- thousands of police paying respects for one of two New York police officers who lost their lives in the line of duty last weekend.More than 25,000 police officers from throughout the country and even Canada came to Christ Tabernacle in the Glendale neighborhood for the funeral of Rafael Ramos, 40.The ceremony began when a police honor guard carried Ramos' casket into the church.Then Vice President Joe Biden, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio and Police Commissioner Bill Bratton delivered eulogies that were notably solemn and expressive, political and apolitical.Ramos and his partner, Officer Wenjian Liu, were gunned down December 20 as they sat in their patrol car in Brooklyn. The gunman, Ismaaiyl Brinsley, shot himself at a subway shortly afterward. He earlier posted angry messages on social media against police and government, citing two black men killed by officers.Liu's funeral will be January 4.During Saturday's service, Bratton announced he was appointing Ramos as an honorary NYPD chaplain and posthumously promoting Ramos and Liu to the rank of detective.Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Law enforcement helicopters fly over Christ Tabernacle in Queens, where the casket of New York City police officer Rafael Ramos is carried by pallbearers, on Saturday, December 27. Ramos and Officer Wenjian Liu were shot and killed while they sat in their patrol car in Brooklyn on December 20. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – The casket of Officer Ramos is carried out of Christ Tabernacle. Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Maritza Ramos, center, wife of Officer Ramos, holds the colors as she is flanked by her sons Justin, left, and Jaden during the funeral service. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Police officers hold hands in prayer during the funeral services. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Justin Ramos is comforted by his mother following the funeral service. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Police officers salute as the casket of Officer Rafael Ramos arrives before the funeral. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Thousands of police officers gathered to pay their respects outside the church. Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio and his wife, Chirlane McCray, arrive for the funeral. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – NYPD officers embrace before the funeral of the slain officer. Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Vice President Joe Biden and his wife, Jill, enter Christ Tabernacle Church in Queens for the funeral of the slain NYPD Officer. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Police Commissioner Bill Bratton, center, arrives with his wife, Rikki Klieman. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Officers from Ramos' precinct wait outside before the funeral. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo arrives at the funeral with his girlfriend Sandra Lee. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Justin Ramos arrives at the funeral wearing his father's jacket. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Family members of officer Ramos, including sons Jaden and Justin and his wife, Maritza Ramos, in backseat, arrive for the funeral. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Police officers gather outside the church. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – An NYPD officer loads flowers onto a vehicle outside Officer Ramos' funeral. Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Church staff place flowers on a vehicle before the funeral. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos Honoring slain NYPD Officer Rafael Ramos – Firefighters arrive for the funeral. Hide Caption 19 of 19JUST WATCHED Cops carry casket, salute Ramos family Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cops carry casket, salute Ramos family 06:46JUST WATCHED Biden: Ramos a cop for all right reasons Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Biden: Ramos a cop for all right reasons 07:07JUST WATCHED Cuomo pays tribute to slain NYPD officer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cuomo pays tribute to slain NYPD officer 01:49The service ended with trumpeters playing taps and "America the Beautiful" as the pallbearers carried the casket to a hearse attended by the Ramos' widow and two sons. Several police helicopters flew in formation above a vast crowd of officers wearing white gloves, and then hundreds of police motorcyclists rumbled as lead escorts of the cortege.Officers formed endless chains holding hands in prayer during the funeral."I have 31 years on the job, I've never seen such a show of support as we have today," said Patrick Lynch, head of the city's police union.Biden: "It's an uncommon fraternity"As impressive as the display of blue was under the clear skies, the tributes inside the church moved mourners to tears, applause -- even moments of levity.At times, the eulogies and officers' reactions captured how a nation struggles with the honor and conduct of police in the wake of citizen killings.At one point, scores of officers turned their back on a large TV screen showing the live address by the mayor inside the church.Tensions between the NYPD and the mayor came to a boil during recent protests after a grand jury declined to indict an officer in the death this summer of Eric Garner in Staten Island.Lynch has said the mayor and City Hall had "blood" on their hands for supporting critics and protesters against police.After Saturday's funeral, Lynch declined to comment directly about the officers' about-face. "The feeling is real, but today is about mourning; tomorrow is about debate," he said.When asked what he would tell those protesting officers, Lynch stated: "We have to understand the betrayal that they feel, but today we also come to bow our head in mourning, and tomorrow we'll debate."Saturday, Wiley Norvell released the following statement on behalf of the Mayor's Office:"The Ramos and Liu families, our police department and our city are dealing with an unconscionable tragedy. Our sole focus is unifying this city and honoring the lives of our two police officers."On Sunday, Bratton said he believed the scores of police officers who turned their back on de Blasio during speech at the funeral acted inappropriately."I certainly don't support that action yesterday. I think it was very inappropriate at that event. That funeral was held to honor Officer Ramos. And to bring politics, to bring issues into that event I think was very inappropriate and I do not support it," Bratton told CBS' "Face the Nation."On NBC's "Meet the Press," Bratton said the "rift" would likely go on for a "while longer.""The issues go on far beyond race relations in this city. They involve the labor contracts, they involve a lot of history ... different from some of what's going on in the country as a whole," Bratton said.Biden, the first eulogizer, focused on the Ramos family's loss."I'm sure I speak for the whole nation when I say our hearts ache for you," the vice president told the family during the service. He said the thousands of officers surrounding the church "will stand with you for the rest of your life.""It's an uncommon fraternity," Biden said of the police. He added, "Thank God for them.""Amen," some in the church said."This is the finest police department in the world," Biden added, drawing applause.He added that the bullets that targeted the officers also "targeted the city, and (they) touched the soul of an entire nation."Cuomo mentions threats, "abusive tirades"The governor led the congregation in delivering a round of applause to the Ramos family. Then, he made note of protesters who have taken strong exception to police conduct and the recent deaths of unarmed black men at the hands of police.Cuomo praised the professionalism of the NYPD officers during tense demonstrations in the city."The NYPD protected the right of free speech even though they were targets of false and abusive tirades," the governor said. "What a beautiful testament to their professionalism."Officer Rafael RamosHe also noted threats against police."The threats against the New York police are insults to the law-abiding and won't be tolerated," Cuomo said, adding that the National Guard "has your back every step of your way."Anyone making threats "will be investigated, and they will be prosecuted," Cuomo added.Cuomo also delivered a measure of relief when he spoke of Ramos' two sons."Justin and Jaden are Mets fans, which tells us a lot of about them. It means they are really tough and really committed and really, really, really loyal," Cuomo said, drawing widespread laughter.Mayor avoids politicsA couple of officers booed de Blasio when he arrived for the funeral. Some protest signs against him, including "Dump de Blasio," could be seen, but they were small displays and officers were largely polite.Some officers turned their backs on the church as the mayor spoke.Ill feelings toward de Blasio stem from critics' contention that -- amid protests that arose after a grand jury's refusal to indict a police officer in the July death of Eric Garner in Staten Island -- the mayor was not supportive of the police. Some have accused him of fomenting an anti-police fervor that contributed to the deaths of Liu and Ramos.Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – People light candles during a vigil on Sunday, December 21, for two NYPD officers who were ambushed and killed on Saturday. The two NYPD officers, Wenjian Liu and Rafael Ramos, were shot while sitting in their police car. Police have named Ismaaiyl Brinsley as the shooter. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – Lucy Ramos, aunt of slain police officer Rafael Ramos, speaks at a news conference in front of Ramos' childhood home on December 21. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – A New York City police officer kneels on Sunday, December 21, in front of a small memorial for two police officers who were killed in Brooklyn, New York, on Saturday. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – The Rev. Al Sharpton, center, speaks about the killings of the officers during a news conference at the National Action Network headquarters in New York on December 21. Behind him are, from left, Esaw Garner, widow of Eric Garner; attorney Michael Hardy; Gwen Carr, mother of Eric Garner; and attorney Jonathan Moore. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams, third from right, speaks on December 21 while Manhattan Borough President Gale Brewer, fourth from right, and Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz, right, listen during a news conference at an impromptu memorial near the site where the officers were shot. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – Mourners stand at attention as the bodies of two fallen NYPD officers are transported from Woodhull Medical Center on Saturday, December 20. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – New York Police Department Commissioner Bill Bratton speaks alongside Mayor Bill de Blasio, left, and NYPD's Chief of Department James O'Neill, right, during a news conference at Woodhull Medical Center on December 20. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – Investigators work the scene where two NYPD officers were shot December 20, in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York. Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – The officers were shot and killed ambush-style Saturday afternoon as they sat in their patrol car in Brooklyn, officials said. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – The officers -- one with two years' experience, the other with seven years on the job -- were normally assigned to downtown Brooklyn but were working a "critical response" detail in an area with higher crime, police said. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – The shooter was found dead in a nearby subway station from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, officials said. The shooter, identified as Ismaaiyl Brinsley, arrived in New York from Baltimore, police said. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – The shooting occurred near Myrtle and Tompkins avenues in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – Police officers gather near the scene of the shooting. U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder called the attack "an unspeakable act of barbarism." Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: Photos: Two NYPD officers fatally shot Two NYPD officers fatally shot – An officer with a police dog monitors the scene on the evening of December 20. Hide Caption 14 of 14JUST WATCHED What drove cop killer to act? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What drove cop killer to act? 02:58JUST WATCHED Garner's daughter visits NYPD memorial Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Garner's daughter visits NYPD memorial 04:32Visitors pay respects to two slain police officers this week at a memorial in New York's Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood.Nonetheless, in his remarks de Blasio did not comment on protests or threats against police. Instead, he hailed Ramos for his desire to serve people in many ways.Ramos spent the last 10 weeks of his life studying to be a chaplain, and he was to graduate on the day he was killed. "He was already serving in so many ways, and yet he felt deeply called to serve spiritually, as well," de Blasio said."Our hearts are aching today," the mayor said. "I feel it physically. ... New York City has lost a hero -- a remarkable man because of the depth of his commitment to all around him."He offered condolences to Ramos' family, and then to the NYPD, who he said is "hurting so deeply right now."Ramos made honorary chaplainThe police commissioner drew applause when he stated that Ramos "was a hero."The pair were killed, Bratton observed, simply because of the uniform they wore. "They were killed because they were blue.""Officer Ramos was assassinated because he represented all of us," Bratton said.Bratton drew applause again when he announced he was appointing Ramos, posthumously and effective Saturday, as honorary department chaplain for the 84th Precinct.Bratton also promoted both Ramos and Liu to detectives first grade, posthumously, drawing applause again.LivestreamingTelevision monitors and loudspeakers broadcast the service to the crowds packing the streets outside. The church posted a stream of photographs of Ramos' on YouTube.The service began with a young woman the church identified as Mia Hunt-Pierce singing the national anthem. Police outside stood at attention. The church choir then sang the Christmas carol "O Come All Ye Faithful."Ramos leaves a wife, Maritza, and sons Justin and Jaden, the latter of whom recounted how he had to say goodbye to his father in an emotional Facebook post."(H)e was the best father I could ask for," Jaden wrote after the shooting. "It's horrible that someone gets shot dead just for being a police officer. Everyone says they hate cops but they are the people that they call for help. I will always love you and I will never forget you. RIP Dad."Justin, the older brother, spoke at his father's wake at the church Friday, according to CNN affiliate NY 1."My father was a man of character. He was a selfless man," the college sophomore said. "He always went above and beyond for his family, constantly putting everyone before himself. Dad, I'm forever grateful for the sacrifices you made to provide for me and Jaden."His pastor, the Rev. Rafael Castillo, said his death was a loss for the church."He was a man of great faith, and his faith informed his worldview, not just as a police officer, but as a husband and as a father," Castillo said. "And as I've been saying, we are going to miss him a great deal."