Story highlights I "was expecting to have to evacuate my building," nearby CNN iReporter saysA huge fire in Los Angeles burns an apartment construction siteAt least two other nearby high-rises are damaged, freeways are closed; no injuries reportedDamage is estimated to be in the millions, and the cause is under investigationLos Angeles firefighters spent Monday morning battling two fires, both in apartment buildings: one under construction, the other under renovation, fire officials said.A 911 caller reported the first fire at 906 N. Fremont Ave. just before 1:30 a.m. The location was directly across the street from a fire station."That address had a multistory apartment building under construction, a total of seven floors in the wood-frame stage, approximately 1.3 million square feet of area space," Los Angeles Fire Department Chief Ralph Terrazas said."More than two-thirds of (the building) was on fire, causing significant exposure issues for two nearby high-rise buildings," he added.It took 250 firefighters to get the massive blaze under control.Photos: Building burns in downtown Los Angeles Photos: Building burns in downtown Los Angeles Building burns in downtown Los Angeles – A massive fire engulfs an apartment building that was under construction Monday, December 8, in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Building burns in downtown Los Angeles Building burns in downtown Los Angeles – Los Angeles County firefighters battle the blaze. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Building burns in downtown Los Angeles Building burns in downtown Los Angeles – "More than two-thirds of (the building) was on fire, causing significant exposure issues for two nearby high-rise buildings," Los Angeles Fire Department Chief Ralph Terrazas said. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Building burns in downtown Los Angeles Building burns in downtown Los Angeles – A 911 caller reported the fire at 906 N. Fremont Ave. just before 1:30 a.m. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Building burns in downtown Los Angeles Building burns in downtown Los Angeles – It took 250 firefighters to get the massive fire under control. No one was hurt. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Building burns in downtown Los Angeles Building burns in downtown Los Angeles – The cause of the fire is under investigation. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Building burns in downtown Los Angeles Building burns in downtown Los Angeles – The fire was directly across the street from a fire station. Hide Caption 7 of 7No one was injured.CNN iReporter Andrew Gottesman lives close to the scene. He told CNN he saw the fire from his window and it "seemed incredibly large."Gottesman described the inferno as scary sight. "It was incredibly nerve racking being so close, and I actually was expecting to have to evacuate my building.""The cause is under investigation, and the loss is being tabulated. We estimate that it will be in the multimillion-dollars of loss range," Terrazas said.The second fire was reported in a smaller apartment building about eight blocks away on West Seventh Street just after 4 a.m.Fire officials don't know whether the blazes are related, but it took 100 firefighters to get the second fire under controlThe fires also caused traffic headaches. Parts of the 110 and 101 freeways were closed as fire crews battled the flames.