Story highlights Indiana police officer sells T-shirts that read "Breathe Easy, Don't Break the Law"Jason Barthel says the shirts are meant to remind people that police are there to protect themCritics are angry over apparent reference to Eric Garner's last words, "I can't breathe"It "shows great disrespect to ... victims of police misconduct," one commenter writesEric Garner's final words have become a rallying call for protesters across the country.In the days following a grand jury decision not to indict New York police Officer Daniel Pantaleo in Garner's chokehold death, demonstrators in New York City and beyond took to the streets demanding justice, chanting "I can't breathe" -- a reference to Garner's last utterance.A police officer and small business owner in Indiana is hoping to change the conversation around police-community relations.Jason Barthel, an officer with the Mishawaka Police Department and the owner of South Bend Uniform Company, is selling a T-shirt that reads "Breathe Easy, Don't Break the Law." The shirt is emblazoned with a graphic of a police officer's badge.Barthel said the shirt is meant to bring people together and remind communities that police officers are there to serve and protect -- not to harm.Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Demonstrators chant during a rally in downtown Manhattan on December 13. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Police arrest a "Black Lives Matter" protester on Saturday, December 20, in Bloomington, Minnesota. Invoking the familiar names of blacks who died at the hands of police, including Eric Garner, Michael Brown and Tamir Rice, thousands have taken part in protests across the country calling for a more aggressive federal response to recent slayings by police. Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Thousands of protesters fill the Mall of America in Bloomington on Saturday, December 20. Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Police line up to move the protesters from out of the mall on December 20 in Bloomington. Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Mikela Mosley speaks out in front of a line of police during a demonstration on Saturday, December 13, in Oakland, California. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests A protester is arrested at a demonstration on December 13 in Oakland. Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Demonstrators march over the inbound lane of the Brooklyn Bridge in New York on December 13. Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Protesters stage a "die-in" during a march in Chicago on December 13. Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Demonstrators face off with police during a march in Chicago on December 13. Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Protesters march through the streets of Oakland on December 13. Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Protesters gather at the Alameda County Courthouse in Oakland on December 13. Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests A demonstrator marches in New York on December 13 during the "Justice for All" rally. Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests The protest moves down Sixth Avenue in New York on December 13. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests A woman marches down 14th Street in New York on December 13. Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests From left, Samaira Rice, the mother of Tamir Rice; Lesley McSpadden, the mother of Michael Brown Jr.; the Rev. Al Sharpton and Michael Brown Sr., the father of Michael Brown Jr, raise their hands in the air during the "Justice For All" march and rally through Washington on December 13. Hide Caption 15 of 16 Photos: 'Black lives matter' protests Protesters fill the street as they gather for a march on December 13 in Washington. Hide Caption 16 of 16"When we use the slogan 'Breathe Easy' we are referring to knowing the police are there for you! The police are here to protect and serve," Barthel wrote on Facebook. "99.9% of us have the greater good in our hearts each time we strap on our uniforms and duty belts."Not everyone agrees with his reasoning. Many have taken to his company's Facebook page to criticize the shirt's reference to Garner and the controversy surrounding his death."This shirt shows great disrespect to the family of Eric (Garner), and all victims of police misconduct. Please reconsider its production," wrote one commenter."As a marketer you know using a reference to that will sell. It is poor taste, and inflammatory. How does this help in any way relations between police and community?" wrote another.Barthel maintains that the shirt is "by no means is a slam on Eric Garner or his family" and that "we are one people, one nation regardless of race, religion, creed or gender."The shirt sells for $7.95 online, where a banner advertising the shirt reads "Make a Statement." Barthel told CNN affiliate WSBT that he has already received over 100 orders and that phones have been ringing nonstop.Garner's death was later ruled a homicide by the New York City medical examiner. U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder announced earlier this month that federal officials were moving ahead with a civil rights investigation.The city of Mishawaka is located in northern Indiana, just south of the Michigan border.