Story highlights William and Kate, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, arrive in New YorkThey are on a three-day visit to New York and WashingtonWilliam will meet with President Barack ObamaThe Duke and Duchess of Cambridge arrived in New York City on Sunday as they begin a busy three-day visit to the United States.A crowd gathered outside the hotel where William and Kate are staying hours before the royal couple arrived.Police were on hand to keep the crowds a safe distance away.Many of those who gathered said they were more interested in catching a glimpse of Kate, who is pregnant with her second child. The couple's toddler, Prince George, did not make the trip.William and Kate have a private dinner for donors to their foundation on Sunday night.Photos: House of Windsor babies Photos: House of Windsor babies Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, pose with their newborn son Archie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor in St. George's Hall at Windsor Castle on May 8, 2019. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Britain's Prince Louis of Cambridge is carried by his mother, Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, on their arrival for his christening service at the Chapel Royal, St. James's Palace in London on July 9, 2018. Prince Louis is fifth in line to the British throne. Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge and Prince William, Duke of Cambridge leave The Lindo Wing of St. Mary's Hospital with their newborn daughter, Princess Charlotte , on May 2, 2015 in London. Charlotte is fourth in line to the British throne, behind Prince Charles, William and her big brother, George. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Prince George of Cambridge arrives with parents Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, for his christening on October 23, 2013. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Zara Phillips holds daughter Mia Grace, born in January, during horse race trials in July. Phillips, a granddaughter of Queen Elizabeth II, is the daughter of Princess Anne and a cousin of Princes William and Harry. She is married to rugby player Mike Tindall. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Autumn Phillips, the wife of Peter Phillips, attends the Gatcomb Horse Trials in Minchinhampton, England, with daughters Isla and Savannah in September 2013. Peter Phillips is the oldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex, and wife Sophie, Countess of Wessex, leave Frimley Park Hospital in Surrey, England, with their second child, James, Viscount Severn, in December 2007. Edward is the youngest son of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip. Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Prince Edward and Sophie pose with their first child, Lady Louise Windsor, in January 2004. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Sarah, Duchess of York, holds 1-week-old Princess Eugenie of York outside London's Portland Hospital in March 1990. She is the daughter of the Duchess of York and Prince Andrew, Duke of York, who is the son of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip. Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Prince Andrew, Duke of York, and Sarah, Duchess of York, with their 2-week-old daughter Princess Beatrice at Balmoral Castle in Scotland in August 1988. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Prince Charles, Princess Diana and 3-month-old Prince Harry at St. George's Chapel in Windsor, England, in December 1984. Charles is the eldest son of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Prince Charles and Princess Diana with their oldest son, Prince William, on a royal tour of Australia in November 1982. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Princess Anne leaves St. Mary's Hospital in London with 3-day-old Zara Phillips in May 1981. Anne is the only daughter of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip. She was married to Mark Phillips from 1973 to 1992. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Members of the royal family with Peter Phillips after his christening in December 1977. Phillips is the son of Princess Anne, seen holding him, and Capt. Mark Phillips and the grandson of Queen Elizabeth II, center, and Prince Philip. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Andrew with newborn Prince Edward, the queen's fourth child, in Buckingham Palace's music room in June 1964. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Queen Elizabeth II holds newborn Prince Andrew in the music room of Buckingham Palace in March 1960. Prince Charles, from left, Prince Philip and Princess Anne are by her side. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Then-Princess Elizabeth with Prince Charles and newborn Princess Anne in September 1950. Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies Then-Princess Elizabeth holds son Prince Charles after his christening at Buckingham Palace in December 1948. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: House of Windsor babies The future King George VI and Queen Mother with their daughter Elizabeth, now queen, at her christening in May 1926. Hide Caption 19 of 19Prince William, Duke of Cambridge and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge arrive at The Carlyle Hotel, where they will be staying during their official two-day visit to the United States, on Sunday, December 7in New York.On Monday their itinerary includes everything from a children's craft group in Harlem, a conservation reception with Hillary and Chelsea Clinton, to an NBA game where they're likely to rub shoulders with Beyoncé and husband Jay Z.William will split for a while Monday for a trip to Washington, where he will meet with President Barack Obama in the Oval Office.On Tuesday, their plans include a moment of reflection at the September 11 memorial and a glittering charity dinner at the Metropolitan Museum of Modern Art.The White House said William's visit underscored "the special relationship" between the United States and the United Kingdom.