(CNN) Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. Trump news conferenceHe also insisted his administration is running "like a fine-tuned machine," despite early staff turnover and an ongoing problem with anonymous leaks. Asked about his travel ban, Trump called it a "smooth rollout." Collusion with Russia? "A ruse." Oh, right, and he announced his new pick for labor secretary, Alexander Acosta . (That was the point of the news conference.)Trump supporters cheered the chaotic session , seeing it as a return to the bravado-filled days of his campaign.2. White House changesIn: Crossroads Media founder Mike Dubke : Crossroads Media founder Mike Dubke is expected to be named White House communications director . Dubke founded the Republican media source in 2001 and is seen by some as an outsider who wasn't close to the President during his campaign.Not In: Usually when a president asks you to serve, you say yes. Not retired Vice Adm. Bob Harward. He was : Usually when a president asks you to serve, you say yes. Not retired Vice Adm. Bob Harward. He was supposed to replace Michael Flynn as national security adviser . A Republican official said Harward declined the post because he thought he wouldn't be able to form his own team.3. Syria4. New immigration orderBe on the lookout for a new executive order on immigration next week . Trump has promised an order tailored to the federal court decision that paused his first ban on travelers from seven Muslim-majority countries (including Syria). That travel ban is still tied up in appeals after a restraining order put the brakes on it nationwide . As for the new order, we don't have too many details, but the President says it will be "a new and very comprehensive order to protect our people."5. West Coast weatherBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Museum removes all art created by immigrantsWhoopi Goldberg to Tiffany Trump: I'll sit with you at Fashion WeekNASA solves its space poop problemWhy UPS trucks almost never turn leftOrphaned tigers nursed back to health with stuffed toyTODAY'S QUOTE ..."The leaks are real, the news is fake."President Donald Trump, on leaks from anonymous sources that have suggested collusion with Russia by his close advisersAND FINALLY ...Is this 'School of Rock' IRL?