(CNN) Obama and Netanyahu publicly feud. An investigation finds a pattern of discrimination in the Ferguson Police Department. And opening statements in the Boston Marathon bomber trial start today.It's Wednesday, and here are the 5 Things to Know for Your New Day:OBAMA VS. NETANYAHUU.S. President Barack Obama and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu have never been buddies, but they didn't fight in public, either. Now it's getting nasty after Netanyahu challenged the White House on its approach to a possible nuclear deal with Iran. Speaking to the U.S. Congress, the Israeli leader painted Obama as naive about the dangers of the Middle East. The President slammed Netanyahu for not offering a viable alternative to the intricate nuclear talks between world powers and IranALABAMA SAME-SEX MARRIAGEBack and forth: Alabama's Supreme Court has ordered probate judges in the state to Alabama's Supreme Court has ordered probate judges in the state to stop issuing licenses for same-sex marriages . This comes just a few weeks after a federal court cleared the way for same-sex marriages to begin in the state. The bottom line of the court order: Marriage is between one man and one woman under Alabama law. "Nothing in the United States Constitution alters or overrides this duty," it says. Stay tuned.Same-sex couples in Alabama won't be able to get a license to marry under this new order.FERGUSON JUSTICE REPORTBlack and white: We have some early details on the Justice Department's We have some early details on the Justice Department's civil rights investigation into the Ferguson Police Department . It concludes that FPD and the city's municipal court engaged in a "pattern and practice" of discrimination against African-Americans, a law enforcement official told CNN. Here are some of the findings: From 2012 to 2014, 85% of people subject to vehicle stops by Ferguson police were African-American; 90% of those who received citations were black; and 93% of people arrested were black. This while 67% of the Ferguson population is black. The findings in the investigation could be made public as soon as today.JUST WATCHED Ferguson's history of racial divisions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ferguson's history of racial divisions 02:45BOSTON MARATHON BOMBER TRIAL24 months later: Opening statements will begin today in the Opening statements will begin today in the trial of accused Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokar Tsarnaev . Three people died in the blasts and more than 260 people were maimed and injured. A fourth person, an MIT police officer, was ambushed and killed in his patrol car three days after the bombings as Tsarnaev and his brother, Tamerlan, allegedly ran from police. The 26-year-old Tamerlan was killed in a gun battle with officers. Tsarnaev is charged with 30 counts -- 17 of the counts carry a possible death sentence. Tsarnaev has pleaded not guilty.Photos: The Tsarnaev case: His family, friends Dzhokhar "Jahar" Tsarnaev is on trial in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. He is charged with 30 federal counts stemming from the attack. He has pleaded not guilty. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: The Tsarnaev case: His family, friends Elder brother and Boston Marathon bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev died April 19, 2013, following a shootout with police. His brother tried to free him with a stolen SUV but ran him down instead, according to an indictment against the younger Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: The Tsarnaev case: His family, friends Anzor and Zubeidat Tsarnaev are the parents of the Tsarnaev brothers. The two divorced in 2011, and both now live in the Russian republic of Dagestan. If Zubeidat Tsarnaev returns to the United States, she could be arrested for failing to resolve shoplifting charges pending against her. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: The Tsarnaev case: His family, friends Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has two sisters -- Ailina Tsarnaeva, pictured, and Bella Tsarnaeva. Ailina was arrested last year and charged with aggravated harassment, accused of making a bomb threat against the mother of her boyfriend's child. She denies the charge. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: The Tsarnaev case: His family, friends Katherine Russell is the widow of Tamerlan Tsarnaev. Her last known apartment was just blocks from the last listed address of Ailina and Bella Tsarnaeva, her sisters-in-law. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: The Tsarnaev case: His family, friends Ruslan Tsarnaev, the uncle of the Tsarnaev brothers, widely condemned the Boston attack, saying nephew Tamerlan "messed up his life, that's why he decided (to) take lives of innocent people." Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: The Tsarnaev case: His family, friends Dias Kadyrbayev, from left, Robel Phillipos and Azamat Tazhayakov were friends of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's. Kadyrbayev pleaded guilty to charges in connection with removing a backpack and computer from Tsarnaev's dorm room after the bombing. Phillipos was convicted on charges of lying to federal agents investigating the bombing, and a jury found Tazhayakov guilty of obstructing justice. Hide Caption 7 of 7MATERNITY TOURISMAmerican-born: Federal agents have Federal agents have raided more than three dozen "maternity hotels" in Southern California , authorities said. These are places where foreign women give birth, allegedly for the sole purpose of having a U.S.-citizen baby. The "maternity tourism" sites included apartment complexes in Los Angeles, Orange and San Bernardino counties. The operations catered largely to women from China, who paid $15,000 to $50,000 for lodging, transportation and food, according to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The United States grants American citizenship to anyone born on U.S. soil.Photos: Feds fight 'maternity tourism' with raids Federal agents enter an upscale apartment complex on Tuesday, March 3, in Irvine, California. More than three dozen "maternity hotels" were raided in Southern California, where foreign women give birth, allegedly for the sole purpose of having a U.S.-citizen baby, authorities said. Hide Caption 1 of 4 Photos: Feds fight 'maternity tourism' with raids Federal agents walk by an upscale apartment complex, where authorities say a birth tourism business charged pregnant women $50,000 for lodging, food and transportation. Hide Caption 2 of 4 Photos: Feds fight 'maternity tourism' with raids A resident holds her dog while talking to reporters at an apartment complex. Authorities are looking for evidence of bringing in and harboring of undocumented visitors; conspiracy, fraud and misuse of visas and permits; tax evasion and false tax returns; and willful failure to file report of foreign bank and financial accounts, court papers said. Hide Caption 3 of 4 Photos: Feds fight 'maternity tourism' with raids A federal agent looks through a disposable diaper box while serving warrants at an apartment complex during an ongoing investigation of alleged birth tourism centers. Hide Caption 4 of 4Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing:Hey, that's my car: A buffalo at Yellowstone Park slams into the front of a Nissan Xterra. Damage to the SUV? Nearly $2,800.#DearMe: An anti-bullying video with a great message: What advice would you give to your younger self?Musical interlude: The History of Duets with Jimmy Fallon and Kelly Clarkson.Unexpected hook up: Classic pop-rock acts Chicago and REO Speedwagon jam together.Doggy tricks: Lexus the German Shepherd knows a trick or two or three or ...