(CNN) With tensions running high after the shooting of two officers in Ferguson, Missouri, state and county police took over protest security in the St. Louis suburb Thursday.St. Louis County Police and the Missouri State Highway Patrol are assuming "command of the security detail regarding protests," St. Louis County Police said, while Ferguson Police will remain responsible for "routine policing services" in the city.The takeover came less than a day after two police officers standing guard outside Ferguson police headquarters were shot in what St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar called an "ambush," spurring a manhunt for those responsible for targeting the line of officers."We could have buried two police officers," Belmar told reporters. "... I feel very confident that whoever did this ... came there for whatever nefarious reason that it was."Belmar said several people "have been very forthright" with investigators, but authorities haven't released the names of any possible suspects.Investigators believe they have identified two people they want to question in the shooting, and one of them might be the shooter, a law enforcement official said. Police are also trying to find anyone who may have helped the shooter get away.'A very tense situation'This isn't the first time that county police and state troopers have stepped in to handle protest security.When clashes between police and protesters boiled over last year, Missouri's governor declared a state of emergency and tapped the State Highway Patrol to take over . After that emergency declaration expired in December, Ferguson Police resumed command of protest security. Officers from other agencies have continued to provide backup at larger protests.At a candlelight vigil Thursday night near the scene of the shooting, religious leaders led prayers for the wounded police officers and protesters.Dozens of demonstrators gathered again outside the police headquarters Thursday night.This time, Jeff Roorda of the St. Louis Police Officers Association said, the security situation on the streets is different."It's a very tense situation, as you can well imagine," he told CNN's "The Situation Room." "In my communications as a union official with police commanders, I've been assured that tactics will be different tonight. I assume that means not only more officers, but a wider perimeter, with coverage, perhaps, of these blind spots from which the shots were fired last night."'Muzzle flashes ... about 125 yards away'Shots rang from a hill overlooking the station out shortly after midnight Wednesday, at the end of a protest against the Ferguson Police Department.Officers saw "muzzle flashes ... about 125 yards away," Belmar said.Protesters have disavowed any ties to the shooting, saying the demonstrators believe in nonviolence."As the protest was dying down, someone, somewhere got violent. Now who they were and what group they were affiliated with, we don't know," said Antonio French, a St. Louis alderman. "In no way are they representative of the thousands of people...who have been protesting."Belmar believes someone targeted the police, who have faced heated criticism for months, for a reason. "These police officers were standing there, and they were shot just because they were police officers," he said.That department has been under fire since one of its officers, Darren Wilson, shot and killed black teen Michael Brown in August, and more recently since a scathing U.S. Department of Justice report came out documenting a pattern of racial discrimination. Police Chief Thomas Jackson resigned from his post Wednesday.While the demonstrators' focus was Ferguson, neither of the wounded officers works in that St. Louis suburb's Police Department.JUST WATCHED Two officers shot outside Ferguson Police Department Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Two officers shot outside Ferguson Police Department 01:56One is from Webster Groves, a city about 13 miles south of Ferguson. The officer -- a 32-year-old with seven years' experience -- was shot at the high point of his cheek, just under his right eye, Belmar said.The other wounded officer was hit in the shoulder and the bullet came out the middle of his back, Belmar said. He is a 41-year-old from St. Louis County Police who has been in law enforcement for the past 14 years.Both men were treated and released from St. Louis' Barnes Jewish Hospital.'This was a damn punk'Brown's parents condemned the shooting as "senseless," saying such violence against law enforcement "will not be tolerated."So did the White House, with a tweet signed with President Barack Obama's initials offering prayers for the wounded officers and calling "violence against police ... unacceptable."Violence against police is unacceptable. Our prayers are with the officers in MO. Path to justice is one all of us must travel together. --bo — The White House (@WhiteHouse) March 12, 2015And U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, who visited Ferguson in the aftermath of Brown's shooting and unrest that spurred, decried what happened as a "heinous and cowardly (and) repugnant attack.""What happened last night was a pure ambush," Holder said. "This was not someone trying to bring healing to Ferguson. This was a damn punk who was trying to sow discord."Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Ferguson activists march through downtown St. Louis during a protest on Saturday, March 14. The Ferguson Police Department has been under fire since one of its officers, Darren Wilson, shot and killed African-American teen Michael Brown in August, and more recently since a scathing U.S. Department of Justice report documented a pattern of racial discrimination. Hide Caption 1 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting A protester with a taped mouth marches through downtown St. Louis on March 14. Hide Caption 2 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting St. Louis police arrest a demonstrator in St. Louis on March 14. Hide Caption 3 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Ferguson, Missouri, Mayor James Knowles joins business owners to speak to the press outside a restaurant on March 14 in Ferguson, Missouri. The business owners called the press conference to explain how the constant protests in the town have been detrimental to business. Hide Caption 4 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Suzanne Del Rosario pauses as she visits the memorial at the location of the shooting death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, on March 15. Hide Caption 5 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Demonstrators visit a memorial to Michael Brown on Friday, March 13, in Ferguson, Missouri. Hide Caption 6 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Demonstrators voice support for the Ferguson mayor and police outside the police station, on March 13. Hide Caption 7 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Ferguson Mayor James Knowles (second from right) talks with a reporter across the street from the police station on March 13. Hide Caption 8 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Crime scene tape used to secure the area after two officers were shot outside the Ferguson police station, sits in a trash can on March 13. Hide Caption 9 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting A pedestrian walks past a boarded-up furniture store March 13 in Ferguson. Some businesses in the city haven't reopened since last fall's riots, though a number continue to operate despite being boarded up. Hide Caption 10 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting People take part in a candlelight vigil Thursday, March 12, in Ferguson, Missouri. Hide Caption 11 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting St. Louis County police Lt. Jerry Lohr walks through a crowd of protesters in Ferguson on March 12, trying to get them to move out of the street. The St. Louis County police said it had assumed "command of the security detail regarding protests," together with the Missouri State Highway Patrol. Hide Caption 12 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Demonstrators shout slogans during ongoing protests in Ferguson on March 12. Organizers say protests have continued for more than 200 days since Brown's killing. Hide Caption 13 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Police respond after the two officers were shot outside the Ferguson Police Department early March 12. Hide Caption 14 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Police take cover after the two officers were shot on March 12. Hide Caption 15 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Officers gather outside the police station on March 12. Hide Caption 16 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Police mobilize in the parking lot after shots were fired on March 12. Hide Caption 17 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Police shine a light on a helmet as they investigate the scene outside the Ferguson Police Department on March 12. Hide Caption 18 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Protesters demonstrate outside the police station on Wednesday, March 11. Some gathered to cheer the resignation of police Chief Thomas Jackson. Others amassed to demand more: the disbanding of the entire police department and the resignation of Mayor James Knowles. Hide Caption 19 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Police in riot gear respond to demonstrators blocking traffic in Ferguson on March 11. Hide Caption 20 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Police officers stand on alert during the protests on March 11. Hide Caption 21 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting A demonstrator is detained and arrested during the March 11 protest. Hide Caption 22 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Protesters face off with Ferguson police officers on March 11. Hide Caption 23 of 24 Photos: Calls for calm in Ferguson after shooting Protesters demonstrate outside the police station on March 11. Hide Caption 24 of 243 questioned by investigatorsIresha Turner says police banged on her door in the middle of the night."I opened the door and stood back. I look at my chest, there's a red dot on it," she said. "I have my hands up, start crying. I said, 'please, don't shoot me."Turner was one of three people who were questioned for hours by investigators Thursday and eventually released.But they never saw the shooting and had no idea who opened fire, she said. Turner thinks police questioned her because she was in a car of people who sped away after the shooting -- not because they had anything to do with it, she said, but because they were scared after hearing gunshots.It's not known what connection, if any, the shooter or shooters had to Wednesday night's protest.Protester: Before shooting, there was 'great energy'One irony is that, for some protesters, Wednesday was a day to celebrate: They'd called for Jackson's resignation for months, and finally it was happening.But for others, it was not enough. That's why they congregated in Ferguson, to demand changes like disbanding the city's entire Police Department and ousting Mayor James Knowles.Some chanted, "Racist cops have got to go." Others held signs with slogans such as "They don't really care about us!" and "Black lives matter.""It was a great group (with) great, great energy," protester Markus Loehrer said.Three were arrested in a crowd Belmar characterized as agitated and "pretty rowdy" at times. Demonstrator DeRay McKesson told CNN that one fight that occurred had nothing to do with the protests.At its peak, some 150 protesters congregated Wednesday night in front of the Ferguson police station, Belmar said.About 70 law enforcement officers from multiple departments came in to stand in front of the station, as they have on many other nights -- with the turnout of demonstrators the highest since the November grand jury decision not to indict WilsonFlorissant, St. John, hillsdale & Northwoods RT @deray: Officers from everywhere but Ferguson. Ferguson PD. pic.twitter.com/96albXpZ8j — the III.  (@GeekNStereo) March 12, 2015What's next?There's the manhunt, of course. And then there's the likelihood of more protests and the possibility of more violence as well.Even though Jackson, City Manager John Shaw, Ferguson's top court clerk and two police officers are gone or on their way out, some activists are vowing to keep pressing for change."We aren't satisfied with this," Reed said of the police chief's exit. "It's a step in the right direction, but it's not what total justice looks like in Ferguson."Jackson expressed optimism that, in his view, the Justice Department report concluded that Ferguson "can do the tough work to see this through and emerge the best small town it can be."But what are the prospects after Thursday's shooting?Loehrer worried that the shooting will undercut the protesters' message against discrimination and violence."It's a shame that somebody had to take advantage of this great group," he said, "to do something so despicable."And Belmar said it underscores the fact that, eight months after Brown's death, the streets of Ferguson are still simmering and law enforcement officers there are on edge."This is beginning at times to be very difficult for any law enforcement agencies, anywhere, to really wrap their arms around," he said. "I want everybody ... to understand how difficult this is."