(CNN) The co-pilot in the Germanwings crash was once suicidal. The backlash against Indiana's "religious freedom" law grows. And "The Daily Show" gets a new host.It's Tuesday, and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayGERMANWINGS CRASH: Andreas Lubitz was once suicidal and underwent psychotherapy. That's what the prosecutor's office in Dusseldorf, Germany, said yesterday about the co-pilot who deliberately brought down Germanwings Flight 9525 . The investigation into the crash has not yet revealed evidence of Lubitz's motive, and there's no evidence that he was suicidal just before the crash, the prosecutor's office said. Meanwhile Patrick Sondenheimer, the captain of the flight who tried to break down the cockpit door in an attempt to stop Lubitz, is being hailed as a hero. "He deserves the German Medal of Honor for his heroic attempt," said Sondenheimer's grandmother.INDIANA LAWBacklash grows: Businesses are threatening to pull out, governors and mayors in other states are banning travel and celebrities are ramping up criticism over Businesses are threatening to pull out, governors and mayors in other states are banning travel and celebrities are ramping up criticism over Indiana's new "religious freedom" law . But the state's Republican governor and other national GOP leaders showed no sign yesterday of backing away from the controversial law. Gov. Mike Pence defended the law in a Wall Street Journal op-ed, saying it is not a "license to discriminate." Probable 2016 GOP presidential contenders, such as Jeb Bush and Marco Rubio, voiced support for the law yesterday. But the NCAA -- which is based in Indianapolis and hosts its men's basketball Final Four there this weekend -- said it wants some clarity on the law or the organization may move.JUST WATCHED Indiana lt. gov.: Law is not intended to discriminate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Indiana lt. gov.: Law is not intended to discriminate 02:39IRAN NUCLEAR TALKSDeadline day: Today is the deadline for : Today is the deadline for negotiators to come up with a deal on Iran's nuclear ambitions. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry shied away yesterday from predicting success, noting there are still some "tricky issues" to work through. World powers say a deal would stop Iran from getting a nuclear weapon for at least 15 years. In exchange, Iran would be free of sanctions that have crippled its economy. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and most Republicans in Congress have voiced opposition to any deal with Iran.JUST WATCHED Zakaria on Iran: It's not about trust, but dialogue Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Zakaria on Iran: It's not about trust, but dialogue 02:30BOSTON BOMBING TRIAL'This is difficult': That's what Bill Richard : That's what Bill Richard said in court yesterday as he described seeing his 8-year-old son, Martin, after one of the bombs exploded near him while the family watched the 2013 Boston Marathon. It was difficult for jurors as well. Several of them cried as they heard Richard, and then Boston's chief medical examiner Henry Neilds, describe the boy's extensive wounds. Neilds said because of the severity of his injuries -- including a severed aorta -- Martin Richard likely bled to death in minutes, if not seconds. The government rested its case yesterday after testimony on Martin's injuries and those of Lingzi Lu, a 23-year-old grad student who also died in the blast.JUST WATCHED Prosecution rests bombing case with grisly photos Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Prosecution rests bombing case with grisly photos 01:03'THE DAILY SHOW'New host: Meet Trevor Noah, the man who : Meet Trevor Noah, the man who will replace Jon Stewart as host of "The Daily Show." The South African comic has big shoes to fill. Under Stewart, who's helmed the show for 16 years, "The Daily Show" became the go-to, late night destination for political comedy and satire and attracted many of Washington's movers and shakers as guests, including President Obama. Noah, 31, just made his "Daily Show" debut back in December. He has performed all over the world and hosted his own late night talk show in South Africa.JUST WATCHED Meet the new host of 'The Daily Show' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meet the new host of 'The Daily Show' 02:37Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Bad driver: Just because you want a Porsche doesn't mean you can drive it.Fly over: Watch the reactions when a stealth bomber flies over a crowd in Pasadena, California.No surprise: Turns out cheese in a can is NOT a good substance for 3D printers. Shocker.Lava meets ice: What happens when bubbling hot lava is poured on ice? Not what you'd expect.Baby hippo: Do we really need to say anything more to get you to watch this one?