Story highlights Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is on trial in 2013 Boston Marathon bombingsHis parents, who are divorced, have both moved to Russian republic of DagestanHis sisters and brother's widow are believed to be living in New Jersey(CNN) Here are some of the names you might be hearing about as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev goes on trial in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings:• Dzhokhar "Jahar" Tsarnaev: Born July 22, 1993, Tsarnaev and his family immigrated to the United States and applied for political asylum when he was 8. A popular student, Tsarnaev attended Cambridge Rindge and Latin School and was captain of his high school wrestling team. He received a $2,500 scholarship from the city of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and attended the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth.JUST WATCHED Suspected Boston bomber: How they caught him Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Suspected Boston bomber: How they caught him 02:44Tsarnaev was known on campus for selling marijuana, according to court testimony. He became a naturalized U.S. citizen in September 2012, seven months before the bombings. Federal agents say surveillance video captured him near the second blast site, where 8-year-old Martin Richards was killed.After the bombings, Tsarnaev returned to campus and stayed there until the FBI publicly identified him as a suspect. Tsarnaev texted a friend to come to his room and take whatever he wanted as he would not be coming back. He and older brother Tamerlan went on the run, allegedly killing an MIT officer, carjacking an SUV and engaging Watertown, Massachusetts, police in a firefight. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed, and Dzhokhar was discovered the next day, badly wounded, hiding in a boat.Photos: Boston bombings suspect: Tamerlan Tsarnaev Photos: Boston bombings suspect: Tamerlan Tsarnaev Tamerlan Tsarnaev, one of the Boston Marathon bombing suspects, was the subject of an April 2009 photo essay that appeared in a graduate school magazine at Boston University. According to the article, he had hoped to become a naturalized American and make the U.S. Olympic boxing team. Authorities say an overnight shootout with police left him dead on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Boston bombings suspect: Tamerlan Tsarnaev Tsarnaev answers a call while walking to boxing practice at the Wai Kru Mixed Martial Arts center in Boston. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Boston bombings suspect: Tamerlan Tsarnaev Tsarnaev practices boxing at the Wai Kru Mixed Martial Arts center. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Boston bombings suspect: Tamerlan Tsarnaev Tsarnaev shows how he strengthens his ankles, according to the photo essay. The photographer did not want to be named for this story. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Boston bombings suspect: Tamerlan Tsarnaev Though he had lived in the United States for five years, Tsarnaev said in the essay: "I don't have a single American friend. I don't understand them." Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Boston bombings suspect: Tamerlan Tsarnaev Tsarnaev works out. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Boston bombings suspect: Tamerlan Tsarnaev Tsarnaev stretches during boxing practice. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Boston bombings suspect: Tamerlan Tsarnaev Tsarnaev tapes up his hand. Hide Caption 8 of 8• Tamerlan Tsarnaev: Tamerlan Tsarnaev, born October 21, 1986, was an accomplished boxer. He won the New England Golden Gloves heavyweight division in 2009-2010. Known for his flashy clothes and in-your-face self-confidence, Tamerlan aspired to join the U.S. boxing team despite being only a permanent resident and therefore ineligible. In early 2011, Russia asked the FBI to look at Tsarnaev's activities. After interviewing Tsarnaev and family members, the FBI said it "did not find any terrorism activity, domestic or foreign, and those results were provided to the foreign government." In January 2012, Tsarnaev left New York for Russia. It's not clear what he did while there, but Tsarnaev's father has said his son was with him at all times. He returned to the United States in July 2012.