(CNN) Robert Durst is charged with a first-degree murder charge. It's Election Day in Israel. And the death toll climbs after Cyclone Pam pummels Vanuatu.It's Tuesday (St. Patrick's Day!) and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day.ROBERT DURST"Killed them all, of course." That's what Robert Durst said at the end of HBO's "The Jinx" documentary. But did he really? That remains to be proven, but prosecutors in Los Angeles think he's responsible for the December 2000 slaying of Susan Berman, a longtime friend. Yesterday they charged Durst with first-degree murder in her death, two days after FBI agents arrested him in New Orleans. Dick DeGuerin, Durst's attorney, said Durst is ready to end the "rumor and speculation."ISRAEL ELECTIONSIsrael's choice: Today is Election Day in Israel, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu gave voters one last thing to chew on yesterday when he declared Today is Election Day in Israel, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu gave voters one last thing to chew on yesterday when he declared he won't let a Palestinian state form as long as he's in office. Netanyahu is locked in a close race to keep his job and appealing to his nation's more conservative voters for an electoral boost. He also bashed his opponents -- Isaac Herzog and Tzipi Livni -- saying they were "sticking their head in the sand, time and time again."JUST WATCHED Netanyahu: No Palestinian state if I'm re-elected Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Netanyahu: No Palestinian state if I'm re-elected 02:05CYCLONE PAM'Worst-case scenario': Pam is gone, but her impact will be felt for years in Vanuatu. Pam is gone, but her impact will be felt for years in Vanuatu. The tropical cyclone powered through the South Pacific island nation over the weekend. Many are dead, but as the scope of the devastation -- described by a local journalist as "apocalyptic" -- becomes more clear, the death toll is almost certain to rise. About 90% of the housing in Vanuatu's capital is badly damaged, the hospital is flooded, radio and phone communications are still down and tens of thousands of children need help. But help is on the way: the Australian government is already there with personnel and supplies.JUST WATCHED Vanuatu struggles to clean up after massive storm Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Vanuatu struggles to clean up after massive storm 02:01BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING TRIALMorning of terror: Gun battles. Bombs thrown. An SUV used as weapon. That's what police from Watertown, Massachusetts, remembered yesterday about the morning of April 19, 2013, when they Gun battles. Bombs thrown. An SUV used as weapon. That's what police from Watertown, Massachusetts, remembered yesterday about the morning of April 19, 2013, when they encountered the Boston Marathon bombing suspects . A patrolman spotted the stolen SUV Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev were in and called for backup, sparking the violence. Tamerlan would be killed; Dzhokhar would later be captured in a boat. Jurors got a chance to see that boat -- and the words he wrote in it -- when it was brought to a location about a mile from the courthouse.JUST WATCHED Cops testify Tsarnaev didn't have to run over brother Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cops testify Tsarnaev didn't have to run over brother 04:56MARCH MADNESSMore than basketball: You thought the hype around the You thought the hype around the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament was just about basketball? Ah, what a quaint notion. It's also about money, college applications, money, vasectomies, money, fast food, money and reduced productivity. Did I also mention money? Anyway, the fun starts Tuesday in Dayton, Ohio, with the "First Four" round of games. Will the University of Kentucky complete a perfect season? We'll know in a couple of weeks.Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Matt Costello (10) and Travis Trice (20) of the Michigan State Spartans celebrate defeating the Louisville Cardinals 76 to 70 in overtime of the East Regional Final of the 2015 NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament at Carrier Dome on March 29, 2015 in Syracuse, New York. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Members of the Gonzaga Bulldogs look on in the closing minutes against the Duke Blue Devils during the South Regional Final of the 2015 NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament at NRG Stadium on March 29, 2015 in Houston, Texas. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Marshall Plumlee (40) of the Duke Blue Devils and Kyle Dranginis (3) of the Gonzaga Bulldogs go for a rebound during the South Regional Final of the 2015 NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament at NRG Stadium on March 29, 2015 in Houston, Texas. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Willie Cauley-Stein of the Kentucky Wildcats dunks against the Georgia Bulldogs at Stegeman Coliseum on March 3, 2015 in Athens, Georgia. Kentucky is favorite to win the NCAA Tournament -- known as "March Madness." Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament NBA Most Valuable Player candidate Stephen Curry (center) shined during the 2008 NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament. Here he celebrates a second-round win over Georgetown with his Davidson College teammates after a 25-point second-half performance. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament NBA All-Star teammates Curry (right) and Klay Thompson of the Golden State Warriors both played at unheralded college programs. Curry's Davidson has an undergraduate enrollment of 1,850 while Thompson went to Washington State. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Two-time NBA champion Norris Cole was known for his defensive prowess while playing at Cleveland State in the Horizon League. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Former Butler player Gordon Hayward was one shot away from a national championship in 2010. He is now a starter with the NBA's Utah Jazz. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Bryce Drew made his mark in the 1998 NCAA Tournament playing for Valparaiso University, with his father Homer Drew coaching. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament As a coach, Bryce Drew (drawing up a play for Kevin Van Wijk #55 and Bobby Capobianco #5) has led Valparaiso to its record number of wins in just his fourth season in charge. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: NCAA Basketball Tournament Jamaica-born Vashil Fernandez, a 6-foot-10-inch senior center with the Valparaiso Crusaders, will look to shine during March Madness. Hide Caption 11 of 11Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of other things that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Puppy rescue: Watch and cheer as a four-man team frees a 2-month-old puppy stuck in a pipe.Tiny treats: Everybody likes cake, right? Even if its an itty-bitty cake made with itty-bitty utensils.Happy hamsters: It's almost spring, which means it's almost Easter. Check out how this adorable pair of hamsters celebrates the holiday.Beatdown: Someone (who had a LOT of time on their hands) put all of boxer Mike Tyson's knockouts in one video. You're welcome.Big hole: Can't have buzzies without drones, right? Here's what it looks like when you fly a drone through the world's largest cave.