Boston (CNN) Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's own words may determine whether he lives or dies, even if he never speaks a word at his trial.The admitted Boston Marathon bomber has sat in silence as people who lost limbs sobbed or glared at him from the witness stand. He slouched in his chair as jurors watched videos of him both before and after two nail-packed pressure cooker bombs exploded, killing three people, claiming 17 limbs and hurting more than 260 others.He didn't utter a peep as his tweets and words he had scribbled on the side of a pleasure boat flashed up on a big screen and were quoted in court.At issue: Was Tsarnaev a terrorist looking to punish the United States for policies he believed were harmful to Muslims? Or, was he a goofball stoner who simply followed the lead of his older, more radical brother?The defense team tried to portray Tsarnaev as a confused college kid who, like countless others, watches Comedy Central and cracks crass jokes. "I wanna study a broad or two," he posted on his Twitter account as @J_tsar . He jokes about not seeing commercials featuring the Trix rabbit, and about "whale watching" outside a McDonald's fast-food restaurant.Miriam Conrad, a member of his defense team, tried Tuesday to apply a more benign spin on tweets the government contends show him as a would-be jihadist eager for martyrdom and a free pass to paradise.His brother was dead and police knew who he was; they were scouring the Boston suburb of Watertown for Tsarnaev when he slipped under a tarp and climbed aboard the Slip Away II, a fishing boat dry-docked in a Watertown backyard. He hid for hours before being discovered.Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A jury condemned Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to death on Friday, May 15, for his role in killing four people and wounding hundreds more in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. See photos that were released as evidence in his trial. Hide Caption 1 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This undated photo of a young Tsarnaev with his brother, Tamerlan, was shown by the defense in the sentencing phase of the trial. Tamerlan died after being shot by police and run over by a car driven by his brother in the massive manhunt that followed the bombings. Hide Caption 2 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Katie Russell met Tamerlan Tsarnaev at a nightclub and dropped out of college to marry him. Her mother, Judith Russell, testified that Tamerlan came between Katie and her family and that Katie became isolated. She eventually converted to Islam and changed her name to Karima Tsarnaeva. She was the breadwinner. But when company came for dinner, she cooked, served the men and then retired to another room. Hide Caption 3 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This collection of photos of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in his wrestling days was introduced by the defense. Hide Caption 4 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This photo of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, recovered from his computer, was shown during the sentencing phase. Hide Caption 5 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image shows victims' positions in the crowd prior to the Boston Marathon bombings on April 15, 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev "flips the bird" in a jail cell during his first arraignment on July 10, 2013. The image was presented to jurors in the sentencing phase of his trial. Hide Caption 7 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev poses in front of a black standard adopted by various militant Islamist groups in this Instagram photo that was entered as evidence. Hide Caption 8 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say Tsarnaev was a self-radicalized jihadist who pored over militant writings, including the article "How to Build a Bomb in the Kitchen of Your Mom." It was found on his laptop and other devices, part of a full-edition download of Inspire magazine, a glossy English-language propaganda tool put out by al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Hide Caption 9 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This Russian manual on how to fire a handgun was found in the apartment where Tsarnaev's brother, Tamerlan, lived. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 10 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This copy of The Sovereign, which calls itself the "newspaper of the resistance," was also found in Tamerlan Tsarnaev's apartment. Hide Caption 11 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Pictured here is a box of bullets found on a street after the shootout in Watertown. The brothers' fingerprints were on the box, prosecutors said. Hide Caption 12 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A pressure cooker was embedded in the side of a resident's Honda during the Watertown shootout. Hide Caption 13 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos of the Watertown shootout were entered into evidence. Neighbors came to their windows and then retreated. One grabbed his infant son and headed toward the back of his house with his wife. Another grabbed a camera and took photographs from an upstairs window. Hide Caption 14 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence The Tsarnaevs had carjacked a Mercedes SUV in Watertown before the shootout. The vehicle was covered in bulletholes, and the rear window was shattered. Hide Caption 15 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This unexploded pipe bomb was found at the scene of the shootout between police and the Tsarnaev brothers in Watertown. Hide Caption 16 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said these boards were attached to the boat where police found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding. A carved message reads, "Stop killing our innocent people and we will stop." Hide Caption 17 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Smashed phones and an ATM card owned by carjacking victim Dun Meng were in the yard where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found. Hide Caption 18 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this surveillance image shows Tsarnaev visiting an ATM hours before a police chase and chaotic shootout in which more than 200 rounds were fired. Hide Caption 19 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Another view of Tsarnaev's visit to the ATM. Hide Caption 20 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Exhibits related to the shooting death of MIT Officer Sean Collier were introduced to the jury on Wednesday, March 11. This image from the crime scene appears to show a bloody gun. Hide Caption 21 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This burned tank top and yellow hoodie belonged to bombing survivor Jessica Kensky. Hide Caption 22 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this Fox Racing logo was from one of the backpacks containing a bomb. Hide Caption 23 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this still image from surveillance video shows Tsarnaev in the UMass Dartmouth gym the day after the bombings. Hide Caption 24 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors showed the jury photos of what they say are Tsarnaev's writings inside the boat he was captured in. Hide Caption 25 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image is from a surveillance camera outside the Forum restaurant in Boston's Copley Square just after the bombing. Hide Caption 26 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors presented two Twitter accounts linked to Tsarnaev that, they said, showed targeting the marathon had been on his mind for at least a year. One account, @J_tsar, contained 1,100 tweets and was the more mainstream of the two. On the day of the 2012 Boston Marathon, a tweet from the account read, "They will spend their money & they will regret it & they will be defeated." Hide Caption 27 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said the second Twitter account is evidence that Tsarnaev led a double life. By day, he was a slacker college sophomore. By night, he was a wannabe jihadist, posting on the account @Al_firdausiA. In one tweet, he urged people to listen to radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki's lectures. "You will gain an unbelievable amount of knowledge," he said in March 2013, just weeks before the bombings. Prosecutors also allege in an indictment that Tsarnaev downloaded al-Awlaki's writings, calling him a "well-known al Qaeda propagandist." Al-Awlaki had been killed in a U.S. drone strike in 2011. Hide Caption 28 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Hide Caption 29 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A Boston Marathon bombing victim is tended to in the street. Hide Caption 30 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Victims at the finish line just after the bombing. Hide Caption 31 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Eight-year-old Martin Richard, the youngest victim , can be seen standing on the rail in the front row. Hide Caption 32 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A closer view of 8-year-old Martin Richard in the crowd before the bombing. Hide Caption 33 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Boston police tend to a wounded child. CNN has chosen not to show the young victim's face. Hide Caption 34 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Mayhem along Boylston Street. Hide Caption 35 of 35Bleeding, he picked up a pencil and wrote what Assistant U.S. Attorney William Weinreb called his "manifesto."Tsarnaev wrote he was jealous that his brother, Tamerlan, had achieved paradise by dying like a holy warrior; he was killed the night before during a gunbattle with police. The indictment against him says Tsarnaev helped in his brother's demise by running him over and dragging him along the road as he tried to run down police.About the bombings, Tsarnaev wrote on the boat that he didn't enjoy killing innocent civilians, but that circumstances excused it."The US Government is killing our innocent civilians but most of you already know that," he wrote. "Know you are fighting men who look into the barrel of your gun and see heaven, now how can you compete with that. We are promised victory and we will surely get it."Streaks of blood cover portions of his message. More than a dozen bullet holes obliterate parts of words. So ended one of the biggest manhunts in U.S. history.While in the boat, he wrote that he couldn't stand to see the U.S. government "go unpunished" for killing Muslims. "We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us all."He ended with: "Now I don't like killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to said " -- the word was lost to a bullet hole -- "it is allowed."Judge George O'Toole viewed the boat Tuesday afternoon so he could rule on a defense request to show the entire boat "in context" to the jury. He turned down requests by the media to accompany him.The defense said the government only presented about 45 tweets out of about 1,100. Many were benign, about girls, cars and food as well as sleeping and disliking studying, the defense argued.On Monday, FBI agent Steven Kimball testified about two Twitter accounts used by Tsarnaev. One account shows he tweeted on the day of the April 15, 2013, bombing:Ain't no love in the heart of the city, stay safe people — Jahar (@J_tsar) April 16, 2013"Ain't no love in the heart of the city, stay safe people"His last tweet was on April 17. He sent it while on the run:"I'm a stress free kind of guy"His other account carried seven tweets, including this:strive to be a better muslim, be greedy with your time, devote most of it to the Almighty for it is his satisfaction that you need #islam — Ghuraba (@Al_firdausiA) March 11, 2013"strive to be a better muslim, be greedy with your time, devote most of it to the Almighty for it is his satisfaction that you need #islam"Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is detained by officers on Friday, April 19. After a car chase and shootout with police, one suspect in the Boston Marathon bombing, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, was shot and killed by police early Friday, and his brother and second suspect, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, was taken into custody Friday night. The two men are suspects in the bombings at the Boston Marathon on April 15, that killed three people and wounded at least 170. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Special imaging techniques employed by Massachusetts State Police reveal Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding in a boat in a backyard in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Dzhokhar Tsarnaev gets out of the boat he was hiding in outside of a home in Watertown, as seen in a surveillance video still. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – An ambulance carries Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, from the scene after he was apprehended in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police SWAT teams leave the area after apprehending the suspect in a yard where he was hiding in a dry-docked boat on April 19. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Residents flee from an area where a suspect was hiding on Franklin Street on April 19. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT team members run toward a police assault on a house as gunfire erupts on April 19. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – People react while watching police respond to reported gunfire on April 19. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT team members move down residential streets as they perform door-to-door searches in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A U.S. military helicopter lands behind Watertown Mall as law enforcement agencies continue to search for the 19-year-old bombing suspect on Friday. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams prepare to enter a home as they continue the door-to-door search. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – U.S. President Barack Obama meets with members of his national security team in the Situation Room of the White House on April 19 to discuss developments in the Boston bombings investigation. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT team members line a residential street in Watertown, Massachusetts, as the manhunt continues on Friday. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A man watches from the window of a home as a SWAT team member keeps watch on Friday, in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police to continue to the door-to-door search on Francis Street in Watertown, Massachusetts, on Friday. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Law enforcement officers place themselves in an overhead position on Arsenal Street as the search continues on April 19. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Law enforcement officers react to what was initially thought to be a threatening suspect on Arsenal Street on April 19. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A police SWAT team searches houses on April 19 for the second suspect. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams searches homes along Winsor Avenue in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Massachusetts state trooper watches other troopers line up at Watertown Mall as the manhunt for the second suspect continues in Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police continue the ongoing manhunt for the second suspect on Williow Avenue in Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Watertown police vehicle with bullet holes in its body and a shattered windshield is towed out of the search area on April 19 in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Massachusetts State Police officer checks the bag of a cyclist amid heightened security on Friday in Watertown. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Katia Costa looks out her window as police continue the manhunt on Nichols Avenue in Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Ruslan Tsarni, uncle of the Boston terror suspects, told CNN affiliate WBZ that Tamerlan "got what he deserved" in an interview outside his home in Montgomery Village, Maryland, on Friday. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A woman is questioned by Cambridge police and other law enforcement agencies Friday near the home of the second suspect in Cambridge, Massachusetts. A Massachusetts Institute of Technology campus police officer was shot and killed late Thursday night at the school's campus in Cambridge. A short time later, police reported exchanging gunfire with alleged carjackers in nearby Watertown. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams move into position at the intersection of Nichols and Melendy avenues in Watertown, Massachusetts, on Friday. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams gather at the intersection of Nichols and Melendy avenues in Watertown while searching for the remaining suspect on Friday. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Onlookers take pictures while SWAT team members look around on Friday. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick, left, speaks to the media at a shopping mall on the perimeter of a locked-down area during the search on Friday. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Metro SWAT members hang off the back of a truck during the search on Friday. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT officers check a door with guns ready on Friday. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Officers patrol Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers – The aftermath of the shootout that police said involved the two suspects in Watertown early Friday. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police with guns drawn search for a suspect on Friday in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A police officer runs with his gun drawn on Friday. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston Police gather in the parking lot in front of a Best Buy store near the Watertown Mall on Friday. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis speaks during a media briefing in the parking lot of the Watertown Mall on Friday. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston police gather in front of a Best Buy on Friday. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police stop cars at School and Walnut streets on Friday. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Massachusetts state trooper checks a building along Mount Auburn Street as police search neighborhoods in Watertown. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police search neighborhoods yard by yard on Friday. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police convene on School and Walnut streets on Friday. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A police officer talks to a driver at a checkpoint in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police officers keep a man on the ground in Watertown on Friday. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 45 of 45The jury also has now seen Tsarnaev in videos, trailing his brother onto Boylston Street. Both carried heavy backpacks. He paused for four minutes, standing next to a tree in front of the Forum restaurant. In front of him stood a line of children who were leaning over the barricade and watching the race. He put his backpack down at his feet and made a phone call.When his brother's bomb went off a block away, heads swiveled in surprise in the direction of the noise. And there was Tsarnaev walking through the crowd, looking back over his shoulder as his own bomb went off 12 seconds later. Martin Richard, an 8-year-old standing in the line of kids, took the full brunt of the blast, which tore him apart.The bombs went off at 2:49 and 2:50 p.m., about the same time as he exchanged phone calls with his brother. The next video showed Tsarnaev in the crowd running. Other videos show him carrying on as usual: buying milk and swiping his card at his college gym. But FBI agents were already in pursuit, collecting store security videos and looking for somebody suspicious in the marathon crowd.By Wednesday night, authorities had a good idea who they were looking for. By Thursday night, his photo had been released to the public. By the next morning, his brother was dead, and Tsarnaev was hiding in the boat, writing of martyrdom and paradise.