(CNN) Diplomacy can be dangerous. U.S. diplomats have come under attack in various places in the last few decades.Here's a look at U.S. diplomats who have been killed in the line of duty.1968 in GuatemalaThe first U.S. ambassador assassinated while in office was John Gordon Mein, the U.S. ambassador to Guatemala.Mein was shot and fell to the ground about 12 yards behind his limousine.1973 in SudanCleo Noel Jr., the U.S. ambassador to Sudan, was nearing the end of a March 1973 reception in the Saudi Embassy in Khartoum when terrorists stormed in.The gunmen took Noel and another American, as well as diplomats from Saudi Arabia, Belgium and Jordan, according to a U.S. intelligence memo . The captors' demand: Free various people, mostly Palestinian guerillas, then imprisoned in Jordan, Israel and the United States.This spurred negotiations that didn't go anywhere, ending instead with the killing of Noel, fellow U.S. diplomat George Curtis Moore and Belgium's Charge d'Affaires. U.S. authorities say the assailants belonged to the Palestinian terrorist movement known as "Black September," claiming that Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat signed off on the attack.1974 in CyprusAmbassador Rodger Davies, who had been in Cyprus for less than months, hunkered down in a hallway on August 19, 1974, hoping he was safe from those involved in a nearby demonstration.Antoinette Varnava, a 31-year-old local who was part of the small embassy staff for about a decade, also died in the violence.1976 in LebanonU.S. ambassador to Lebanon Francis Meloy, his economic counselor Robert O. Waring and their Lebanese driver disappeared in June 1976 as they crossed the Green Line, the division between Beirut's Christian and Muslim sectors.Their bullet-riddled bodies were found a short time later in mainly Muslim west Beirut, which was then controlled by PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat's guerrillas.Two former Muslim guerillas were convicted in the kidnapping and killings, only to be freed in 1996.1979 in AfghanistanAbout eight months after President Jimmy Carter appointed him as U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan, Adolph Dubs was taken from his car while heading home from the embassy.His captors took the Foreign Service veteran to the Hotel Kabul, where Dubs died in a shootout between captors and Afghan police -- a violent death that, whomever fired the fatal bullets, the U.S. State Department considers an assassination1983 in BeirutA former eight-story hotel facing the sea transformed into America's embassy in Beirut turned into a war zone in April 1983, when a truck loaded with explosives was rammed into its entrance.The result was horrific. Offices were pancaked on top of each other, the elevator shaft and stairwell destroyed, the cafeteria full of bodies and rubble, recalled the then U.S. ambassador Robert Dillon , who himself was dug out of the rubble.While 44 people inside the embassy survived the blast, 17 Americans, 25 Foreign Service nationals, 10 contract workers and 10 visa applicants and passerby did not.In 2008, Dillon said the attack was believed to have been carried out by a family "under the direction of members of Iran's Revolutionary Guards."1998 in KenyaOn August 7, 1998 -- around the exact same time a bomb went off at the U.S. Embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, killing 11 -- a huge explosion tore through the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya.A rescue worker stands on the remains of what used to be the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi.The American Foreign Service Association (AFSA) lists eight people as having died in the attack on its memorial remembering Americans who died while serving the U.S. government abroad in a foreign affairs capacity. Twelve Americans total were killed.Those are both jarring numbers, but they're still a fraction of the more than 200 people total killed in the attack, in addition to more than 4,000 wounded.In May 2001, a U.S. jury found four purported al Qaeda members guilty on all charges stemming from the embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania.2002 in JordanAs his wife of 34 years looked on, Laurence Foley was shot dead outside his home in Amman, Jordan, by a lone gunman in December 2002. A public servant for close to 40 years, the Boston-born Foley was serving as executive officer of the USAID mission in Amman at the time.U.S. officials were quick to label Foley's killing a murder, with the head of the AFSA calling it a "brutal terrorist attack."They later implicated Iraqi-based terrorist leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi for providing "financial and other support to the terrorists who assassinated" Foley.2012 in LibyaPhotos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – Attackers set the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya, on fire on September 11, 2012. The U.S. ambassador to Libya, Christopher Stevens, and three other U.S. nationals were killed during the attack. The Obama administration initially thought the attack was carried out by an angry mob responding to a video, made in the United States, that mocked Islam and the Prophet Mohammed. But the storming of the mission was later determined to have been a terrorist attack. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – Obama and Clinton stand at Andrews Air Force Base as the bodies of the four Americans killed are returned on September 14. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – A desk sits inside the burnt U.S. mission on September 13, two days after the attack. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – Damage is seen inside the U.S. mission on September 13. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – A lounge chair and umbrella float in the swimming pool of the U.S. mission on September 13. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – Demonstrators gather in Libya on September 12 to condemn the killers and voice support for the victims. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – U.S. President Barack Obama, with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on September 12, makes a statement at the White House about Stevens' death. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – A burnt vehicle is seen at the U.S. mission in Benghazi on September 12. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – People inspect the damage on September 12. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – A small American flag is seen in the rubble on September 12. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – A man stands in part of a burned-out building of the U.S. mission on September 12. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – Smoke and fire damage is evident inside a building on September 12. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – Half-burnt debris and ash cover the floor of one of the U.S. mission buildings on September 12. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – The U.S. mission is seen in flames on September 11, the day of the attack. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – A protester reacts as the U.S. mission burns on September 11. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – A vehicle and the surrounding area are engulfed in flames on September 11. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – Flames erupt outside of a building on September 11. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – A vehicle burns during the attack on the U.S. mission on September 11. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – Onlookers record the damage from the attack on September 11. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – Onlookers walk past a burning truck and building on September 11. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – A vehicle sits smoldering in flames on September 11. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Photos: Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi Attack on U.S. mission in Benghazi – People duck flames outside a building on September 11. Hide Caption 22 of 22Exactly 11 years after the September 11 attacks in New York, Washington and rural Pennsylvania, terrorists struck at Americans again -- this time some 5,000 miles away in the Libyan city of Benghazi.That's where Ambassador Christopher Stevens was when mortar and rocket fire struck a U.S. diplomatic annex there. Stevens didn't survive, nor did State Department computer expert Sean Smith or Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty, two former U.S. Navy SEALs then acting as security contractors.The attack was first portrayed as violence by an angry mob responding to a video made in the U.S. that mocked Islam and the Prophet Mohammed. But officials later determined that it was a terrorist attack.2013 in AfghanistanAnne Smedinghoff was a 25-year-old public diplomacy officer in Kabul when she was killed.Anne Smedinghoff , a 25-year-old public diplomacy officer at the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, was delivering books to a school in southern Afghanistan when a suicide bomber smashed into her convoy."We thought she was relatively safe in the embassy compound," her father Tom Smedinghoff told CNN. "But as it turned out, Anne really wanted to do a lot more."