Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) They're fighting in Kashmir (again) and a certain bank is sticking it to us (again). But hey, it's Friday, so smile and then Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. NJ train crashInvestigators will spend today trying to figure out why a commuter train crashed into a terminal in Hoboken. Some say positive train control -- a hi-tech way to monitor trains and stop them from derailing or crashing -- could've helped, but NJ Transit trains don't have it . A woman standing on a platform was killed; more than 100 others were hurt. Here's a visual timeline of what happened.2. 9/11 billJust one day after overriding President Obama's veto of the 9/11 bill, Congress is having buyer's remorse. The bill allows 9/11 families to sue Saudi Arabia. But Obama's said it could lead other countries to sue US troops abroad. Good point, Congress now concedes. Which led to this zinger from the White House: "What's true in elementary school is true in the United States Congress: ignorance is not an excuse."3. Kashmir4. Campaign 20165. Wells FargoQUOTE OF THE DAY"He started off life as Israel's brightest student, became its best teacher, and ended up its biggest dreamer"Bill Clinton, one of many world leaders saying goodbye to former Israeli Prime Minister and President Shimon Peres at his funeral today.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Buh byeA Pennsylvania mayor's being asked to resign after racists posts on Facebook , including one about the first family. When will folks learn?F is for fastNeed speed with or without the family? Ferrari's got you covered, with its fastest convertible ever and a super-fast family carNot for sale (anymore)Somebody at Home Depot thought selling something that looks like a Peeping Tom was a fun joke. No one's laughingGoing gagaHey Little Monsters! You have an excuse to watch the Super Bowl next year, now that your leader, Lady Gaga, will provide the halftime entertainmentWHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up laterFriday: Look! Up in the sky! It's a black moon. Never mind, Look! Up in the sky! It's a black moon. Never mind, you can't see it.Saturday: 'SNL' returns with Alec Baldwin in his yugest role yet: Donald Trump.Number of the day0The number of measles transmission in the Americas. It took 20 years but it's a global first : The region has eliminated the disease.AND FINALLY ...NBD