Photos: Behind the scenes: Denver's National Western Stock Show National Western Stock Show – Every year, cattlemen travel from around the Western United States to Denver for the annual National Western Stock Show. One of the highlights is the cattle show. Because cows enjoy looking at themselves, handlers use mirrors to get them to hold their heads up high. This year, CNN's Jim Spellman got a behind the scenes look at this uniquely American tradition: Hide Caption 1 of 12Photos: Behind the scenes: Denver's National Western Stock Show National Western Stock Show – Before heading into the ring to be judged, each cow is put through an intense beauty regimen. Hide Caption 2 of 12Photos: Behind the scenes: Denver's National Western Stock Show National Western Stock Show – First, they must get a thorough washing with shampoo -- and yes, conditioner, too. Hide Caption 3 of 12Photos: Behind the scenes: Denver's National Western Stock Show National Western Stock Show – This bull is getting a last-minute trim of his leg fur. Hide Caption 4 of 12Photos: Behind the scenes: Denver's National Western Stock Show National Western Stock Show – The gap between the legs presents a bit of unwanted negative visual space, so the handlers use tail-adhesive -- essentially heavy-duty hair spray -- to form the end of the tail into a ball-shaped tail bush. Hide Caption 5 of 12Photos: Behind the scenes: Denver's National Western Stock Show National Western Stock Show – Handlers use dozens of different bovine beauty products like this styling mousse. Hide Caption 6 of 12Photos: Behind the scenes: Denver's National Western Stock Show National Western Stock Show – When a cow like this Black Angus wins a ribbon, they get a turn in the winner's circle. Hide Caption 7 of 12Photos: Behind the scenes: Denver's National Western Stock Show National Western Stock Show – National Hereford Queen Amanda Bacon, left, and Colorado Hereford Queen Brooke Hinojosa hand out the ribbons to all the winning Hereford bulls. Hide Caption 8 of 12Photos: Behind the scenes: Denver's National Western Stock Show National Western Stock Show – There's a lot more to the National Western Stock Show than just the cattle competition: It's also a place where ranchers can purchase livestock and other farm animals. This golden Polish rooster was selling for $20. He'll be showing off his feathery 'do later in the week at the chicken and rooster judging contest. Hide Caption 9 of 12Photos: Behind the scenes: Denver's National Western Stock Show National Western Stock Show – Ranchers can also take care of their own personal beauty needs. Miles Flatley, pictured here, uses a steam table to soften the felt and re-shape hats that have gotten dirty or stretched out. "A lot of cattlemen come to the stock show once a year and this is the only time they get their hats reshaped," he said. "Some are more vain and come see me every few weeks." Hide Caption 10 of 12Photos: Behind the scenes: Denver's National Western Stock Show National Western Stock Show – Blake Tucker, 16, traveled from North Platte, Nebraska, with his cow Diana.They won the blue ribbon in the junior polled female category. Diana¹s mother, Shelby, and grandmother, Harley, were also champions. Hide Caption 11 of 12