Story highlights Hundreds of homes are destroyed; one family watched their home burn on TV newsBill and Karen Moreau tried to flee to family home, but family had to leave that house, tooThey are staying a hotel with their 8-day-old grandchildOfficials: Black Forest Fire has scorched close to 16,000 acres and killed at least two peopleNearly 500 homes have been destroyed in what authorities believe is the worst wildfire in Colorado history. Every single one of them has a story, and there are sure to be plenty more told as Friday's forecast predicts more scorching heat and strong winds.Bill and Karen Moreau are sitting in a hotel room 15 miles away from the home they planned to spend the rest of their lives in. For the past three nights, they've struggled to sleep, dreaming fitfully that they are again walking its 7,000 square feet of hardwood floors. They open their huge front doors, and are immediately soothed by the view from large windows, an expanse of lush timber."We had the most beautiful home," Karen Moreau said. "It's just so sad that it's gone."As firefighters and a cavalcade of responders battle the Black Forest Fire near Colorado Springs, families like the Moreaus are torn between absolute gratitude that they are safe, and sorrow that they've nothing left of their homes besides memories.Around 3 p.m. Tuesday, Bill Moreau got a call at work from a friend warning him that he'd better get home. The Black Forest Fire was headed toward his neighborhood.Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Plumes of smoke rise above Del Norte Peak in Colorado on Sunday, June 23. Fires have been burning across Colorado since early June. Hide Caption 1 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Smoke fills the sky as dawn breaks near South Fork, Colorado, on Saturday, June 22. Hide Caption 2 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Colorado State Patrol Officer Jessie Bartunek speaks to a resident on the outskirts of South Fork on June 22. Hide Caption 3 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Firefighters monitor a wildfire in a residential area in South Fork on Friday, June 21. Hide Caption 4 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A photo taken by the Pike Interagency Hotshot Crew shows the West Fork Fire Complex, made up of the West Fork Fire and Windy Pass Fire, burning 15 miles north of Pagosa Springs, Colorado, on Thursday, June 20. Hide Caption 5 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – The West Fork Fire Complex burns 15 miles north of Pagosa Springs, on June 20, as a fire crew truck is parked nearby. Hide Caption 6 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Smoke from the West Fork Fire Complex consisting of the West Fork and Windy Pass fires fills the sky on June 20. Hide Caption 7 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A mix of smoke and storm clouds gathers in Colorado Springs, Colorado, on Friday, June 14, three days after two major wildfires burned through the area. Rain has aided firefighters in containing the fires. Hide Caption 8 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Bonnie Kruse hugs her husband, James Kruse, at a press conference in Colorado Springs on June 14. Hide Caption 9 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – El Paso County Sheriff Terry Maketa speaks during a press conference about the Black Forest fire on June 14 in Colorado Springs. County spokesman Dave Rose told CNN it appeared to be the most destructive in the history of Colorado. Hide Caption 10 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – An orange sky highlights a fire on Thursday, June 13, that has been burning since June 11 near Colorado Springs. Hide Caption 11 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – An aerial view on June 13 shows destroyed house and vehicles after the Black Forest Fire passed through Black Forest, Colorado. Hide Caption 12 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A Blackhawk helicopter patrols over the Black Forest Fire on June 13. Hide Caption 13 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A baseball game goes on despite a raging wildfire in Colorado on Wednesday, June 12. Hide Caption 14 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A firefighter fights a blaze near Black Forest, Colorado, on Wednesday, June 12. The Black Forest Fire is one of two major wildfires near Colorado Springs. The other, the Royal Gorge Fire, is threatening the Royal Gorge Suspension Bridge. Hide Caption 15 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Smoke billows from the Black Forest Fire near a house north of Colorado Springs on June 12. Hide Caption 16 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Smoke rises from the Black Forest Fire near Colorado Springs on June 12. Hide Caption 17 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Smoke covers the area on June 12. Hide Caption 18 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – High temperatures, dry brush and gusty winds are proving to be a catastrophic combination in central Colorado. Hide Caption 19 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – An airplane drops flame retardant over the Black Forest Fire on June 12 near Colorado Springs. Hide Caption 20 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Schad Dohl watches a wall of fire as it rages through the Black Forest near Colorado Springs on Wednesday, June 12. Hide Caption 21 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A house burns late in the evening on Tuesday, June 11, northeast of Colorado Springs. Hide Caption 22 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Firefighters from the Black Forest Fire Department race toward a burning home near Colorado Springs on June 11. Hide Caption 23 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A house burns near Colorado Springs on June 11. Hide Caption 24 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – El Paso County Sheriff's Deputy Dan Cukowski helps Linda Davies walk her livestock out from the evacuated area in Colorado Springs on June 11. Hide Caption 25 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Andrew Dunlap and his father, Dave Dunlap, watch as a wildfire burns behind their house in Colorado Springs on June 11. Hide Caption 26 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Motorists stop along Interquest Parkway in Colorado Springs on June 11 to watch the advance of a wildfire burning in the Black Forest. Hide Caption 27 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Lynd Fitzgerald sprays fire retardant around a house in Colorado Springs on June 11. Hide Caption 28 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A wildfire burns in the Black Forest near Colorado Springs on June 11. Hide Caption 29 of 29JUST WATCHED Fire victims saw home burning on TV Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fire victims saw home burning on TV 02:28JUST WATCHED See what it's like to battle a wildfire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See what it's like to battle a wildfire 02:04JUST WATCHED Man burned while saving home from fire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man burned while saving home from fire 03:14JUST WATCHED Colorado wildfire out of control Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Colorado wildfire out of control 02:40That day, there was little indication that the fire would pick up as it has, moving with a ferocity that has shocked seasoned emergency professionals.Moreau met his wife, Karen, and their 30-year-old son, Craig, at home and saw smoke billowing two to three miles away.Just as Californians prepare themselves for an earthquake and Floridians for a hurricane, Colorado residents know what they need to grab from home in case of a wildfire.Because the smoke seemed relatively far away, they thought they had time."I said, 'Well, let's get some stuff ready,' " Bill Moreau said.They grabbed their passports, birth certificates and some clothes. Bill got his computer."After a while, it was just random," Karen said. "You start to think, 'Well, what else do I take?' "Every year of their 34-year marriage, Bill has given her a Santa for Christmas.For a moment, she thought about taking them."I thought, 'that's dumb, I really don't need to do that,' " Karen Moreau said.So she left them.Fleeing a fast-moving fireThe family had three cars, so each person took one. Lucy, the family lab, jumped into Karen's car.Karen and Craig drove away, heading toward the Moreaus' other son's house about five miles away. That son, Kevin, and his wife, Sylvia, had a baby eight days ago.Bill lingered a bit. He watched the fire with a local news photographer.Suddenly, the fire lurched toward them."It went through the woods like a demon," he recalled. "It was hard to take your eyes away from it. The smoke didn't go straight up. It billowed, and it churned. It was like it had a life. It was chewing up the woods."You could hear propane tanks exploding," he said. "Every time [the fire] would hit a house, the smoke would turn jet black for a second. It ran through that neighborhood faster than you could run."Moreau had to get out, and get out fast. So he pulled out and joined the thick traffic of other people trying to get out.Not long after he arrived at his son Kevin and Sylvia's house, the fire had spread their way. Smoke was billowing above the couple's house.Then, police cars raced up to the home, and officers told everyone to leave."Huge air tanker planes were flying right over the house," Bill Moreau said.Kevin and Sylvia, concerned about their baby Emmet, tried to keep steady and calm.They asked the Moreaus: What should we take?Karen Moreau told them: Your wedding album, photo albums, Emmet's Pack 'n Play.The entire family jumped into their cars and took off. At this point, drivers were moving fast, and some seemed panicked."I almost got hit by someone pulling a horse trailer," Bill Moreau said.About 15 miles south, they found a hotel far away from the fire.The next dayOn Wednesday, around 5 a.m., Bill Moreau was feeling anxious. He couldn't sleep. He was worried about his house.The fire couldn't be that bad, he thought, at least not dangerous enough to keep him from driving in the direction of his home with Lucy in the front seat of his Jeep.He parked about a mile away and hiked the rest of the way in.Relief fell over him. The house was fine.So Bill Moreau sat on his deck, sipped some water while Lucy slurped from her water bowl.Before he left to return to the hotel, he even watered his wife's flowers.Back at the hotel, he was feeling pretty good. Things were going to work out and they'd be home soon enough, he thought.At around 5 p.m. Thursday, Kevin and Sylvia came charging down the hotel hall."The look on their faces was ... I was thought, 'Oh, no, did the kids' house burn down?' ""And then they said to me, 'Your house is on fire. Turn on the news.' "He, Karen and the rest of the family watched flames lick their roof.The picture was so clear that Bill Moreau was able to see Lucy's water bowl."It's just unbelievable to watch your house burn down on the news," he said.'People have been so nice'On Friday, Karen Moreau said sadness just comes over her and she has to take a minute.She broke down in front of a hotel clerk who walked around the counter to hug her."People have been so nice," she said. "I just felt better after she did that."The baby is bringing more joy than they thought possible. "Emmet is getting held a lot," Bill Moreau said.While the Moreaus try to push on, officials say that the Black Forest Fire has scorched close to 16,000 acres and killed at least two people. Authorities said Friday that they are surveying about 7,000 homes in the area.At an 11 a.m. briefing Friday, El Paso County Sheriff Terry Maketa said workers plan to have a couple of updates about homes throughout the day. Marked units are moving through neighborhoods, and if they see a door ajar or flames approaching a home, they call for firefighters, the sheriff said.He said that he feels more encouraged about results of efforts to battle the Black Forest Fire and that authorities "gained some tremendous ground" when it came to identifying hotspots and saving structures."To me, it was the turning point we were looking for," he said, though he acknowledged conditions could change.Some 750 firefighters have helped contain the blaze by 5%. With the help of helicopters and air tankers, they established a loose perimeter.The fire's evacuation area was 93,000 acres, affecting approximately 38,000 people and 13,000 homes, and the flames were estimated to have burned through 15,700 acres, Maketa said.There were other fires in the state as well, including in Grand and Huerfano counties. Black Forest was the biggest of the blazes.