Story highlights High court rules on case involving Abigail Noel Fisher's suit against University of TexasThe lawsuit provides a look at her high school record and accomplishmentsShe says she'd dreamed of attending university's flagship Austin campus since childhoodShe went to Louisiana State University insteadThe young woman at the center of the Supreme Court challenge to the University of Texas' affirmative action policy was a good high school student, an accomplished musician and a frequent volunteer, according to information released by her legal team.When Abigail Noel Fisher filed the lawsuit challenging the rejection of her application to the school in 2008, she was a senior ranked 82nd in her class of 674 at Stephen F. Austin High School in the Houston suburb of Sugar Land, according the lawsuit she filed against the university.On Monday, in its decision on whether race-conscious school admission policies violate the rights of some white applicants, the Supreme Court affirmed the use of race in the admissions process, but made it harder for institutions to use such policies to achieve diversity.The justices' 7-1 decision threw the case back to the lower courts for further review.Fisher's academic record placed her in the top 12% of her classmates, and the school recognized her for academic excellence in each of her three years for scoring above 80% in all of her classes, according to the complaint.Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – Hollingsworth v. Perry (2013): The Supreme Court dismissed an appeal over California's Proposition 8 on jurisdictional grounds. The voter-approved ballot measure barring same-sex marriage was not defended by state officials, but rather a private party. This ruling cleared the way for same-sex marriage in California to resume, but left open-ended the legal language of 35 other states barring same-sex marriage. Take a look at other important cases decided by the high court. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – United States v. Windsor (2013): When her wife died in 2009, Edith Windsor, 84, was forced to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars in estate taxes because her marriage was not recognized by the federal government's Defense of Marriage Act of 1996. The Supreme Court struck down the part of the law which denied legally marriage same-sex couples the same federal benefits provided to heterosexual spouses. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius (2012): The Supreme Court upheld most of the Affordable Care Act, the Obama administration's health care reform law, on June 28, 2012. The decision determined how hundreds of millions of Americans will receive health care. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission (2010): Activists rally in February 2012 to urge the Supreme Court to overturn its decision that fundamentally changed campaign finance law by allowing corporations and unions to contribute unlimited funds to political action committees not affiliated with a candidate. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – Texas v. Johnson (1989): The Supreme Court overturned the decision that convicted Gregory Lee Johnson of desecrating a venerated object after he set an American flag on fire during a protest. The court ruled that Johnson (at right with his lawyer, William Kunstler) was protected under the First Amendment right to freedom of speech. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – United States v. Nixon (1974): When President Richard Nixon claimed executive privilege over taped conversations regarding the Watergate scandal, the Supreme Court ruled that he had to turn over the tapes and other documents. The ruling set a precedent limiting the power of the president of the United States. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – Roe v. Wade (1973): Norma McCorvey, identified as "Jane Roe," sued Dallas County District Attorney Henry Wade over a law that made it a felony to have an abortion unless the life of the mother was in danger. The court agreed with Roe and overruled any laws that made abortion illegal in the first trimester. Here, McCorvey, left, stands with her attorney Gloria Allred in 1989. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – Miranda v. Arizona (1966): Ernesto Miranda confessed to a crime without the police informing him of his right to an attorney or right against self-incrimination. His attorney argued in court that the confession should have been inadmissible, and in 1966, the Supreme Court agreed. The term "Miranda rights" has been used since. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – Gideon v. Wainwright (1963): The Supreme Court overturned the burglary conviction of Clarence Earl Gideon after he wrote to the court from his prison cell, explaining he was denied the right to an attorney at his 1961 trial. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – Mapp v. Ohio (1961): The Supreme Court overturned the conviction of Dollree Mapp because the evidence collected against her was obtained during an illegal search. The ruling re-evaluated the Fourth Amendment, which protects citizens against unreasonable searches and seizures. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – Brown v. Board of Education (1954): Nathaniel Steward recites his lesson surrounded by white classmates at the Saint-Dominique School in Washington. In Brown v. Board of Education, the Supreme Court ruled that it was unconstitutional to separate students based on race. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – Korematsu v. United States (1944): Fred Korematsu, a Japanese-American man, was arrested after authorities found out that he claimed to be a Mexican-American to avoid an internment camp during World War II. The court ruled that the rights of an individual were not as important as the need to protect the country during wartime. In 1998, President Bill Clinton awarded Korematsu the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – Plessy v. Ferguson (1896): Homer Plessy was arrested when he refused to leave a whites-only segregated train car, claiming he was 7/8 white and only 1/8 black. The Supreme Court ruled that "separate but equal" facilities for blacks were constitutional, which remained the rule until Brown v. Board of Education in 1954. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – Dred Scott v. Sandford (1857): When Dred Scott asked a circuit court to reward him his freedom after moving to a free state, the Supreme Court ruled that Congress didn't have the right to prohibit slavery and, further, that those of African-American descent were not protected by the Constitution. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – Gibbons v. Ogden (1824): This was the first case to establish Congress' power to regulate interstate commerce. The ruling signaled a shift in power from the states to the federal government. Aaron Ogden, seen here, was given exclusive permission from the state of New York to navigate the waters between New York and certain New Jersey ports. When Ogden brought a lawsuit against Thomas Gibbons for operating steamships in his waters, the Supreme Court sided with Gibbons. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – McCulloch v. Maryland (1819): In response to the federal government's controversial decision to institute a national bank in the state, Maryland tried to tax the bank out of business. When a federal bank cashier, James W. McCulloch, refused to pay the taxes, the state of Maryland filed charges against him. In McCulloch v. Maryland, the Supreme Court ruled that chartering a bank was an implied power of the Constitution. The first national bank, pictured, was created by Congress in 1791 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Photos: Supreme Court cases that changed America Supreme Court cases that changed America – Marbury v. Madison (1803): When Secretary of State James Madison, seen here, tried to stop Federal loyalists from being appointed to judicial positions, he was sued by William Marbury. Marbury was one of former President John Adams' appointees, and the court decided that although he had a right to the position, the court couldn't enforce his appointment. The case defined the boundaries of the executive and judicial branches of government. Hide Caption 17 of 17She participated in math competitions and also was an accomplished cellist, according to her lawsuit. She was co-president of her high school orchestra and played in city and regional youth orchestras, according to the complaint.She was also an active volunteer, having worked with Habitat for Humanity, and used her musical skills to play holiday music at a nearby nursing home, among other efforts, the lawsuit indicates.She included those details in her application to the university, but was nevertheless rejected under a program for students who don't land in the very top tier academically. Such students are automatically selected for admission."I was devastated," The New York Times quoted her as saying in a story published in October, in what the newspaper said was her first interview since the university turned her down."I dreamt of going to UT ever since the second grade," she said in a video interview released by her lawyers to bolster her case in September. "My dad went there, my sister went there and tons of friends and family, and it was a tradition I wanted to continue."Instead, she went on to study finance at Louisiana State University, where she graduated, according to The New York Times. She is working as a financial analyst in Austin, according to the newspaper."The only thing I missed out on was my post-graduation years," the newspaper quoted her as saying. "Just being in a network of U.T. graduates would have been a really nice thing to be in. And I probably would have gotten a better job offer had I gone to U.T."In the video interview released by her lawyers, she said she doesn't like any form of discrimination."I was taught from the time I was a little girl that any kind of discrimination was wrong. And for an institution of higher learning to act this way makes no sense to me," she said."If people say anything about me, I hope they say I didn't take this sitting down," she said in the interview. "I didn't accept the process because the process is wrong."