Story highlights Investigators complete second search of NFL player's homeAuthorities search an SUV parked in Aaron Hernandez's drivewayAuthorities say Odin Lloyd was killed Monday near the football player's housePolice also search a Rhode Island strip club as part of their investigationAuthorities searched the home of New England Patriots tight end Aaron Hernandez on Saturday for the second time since a man was found dead a half mile away.Hernandez has not been named a suspect in the case, and it's unclear what investigators were looking for.At least 20 state and local police investigators descended on the home around 1:30 p.m. They ended their search by early Saturday evening, and removed about a dozen brown paper evidence bags from the home.Some investigators wore blue latex gloves as they entered. At least two police dogs went into the house and also searched the backyard.Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Former NFL football player Aaron Hernandez attends his murder trial in Fall River, Massachusetts, on Thursday, January 29. The state accused Hernandez of orchestrating the shooting death of semi-pro player Odin Lloyd, the boyfriend of his fiancee's sister, in 2013. Hernandez pleaded not guilty to a charge of first-degree murder, but he was convicted on Wednesday, April 15, and sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez is led into a Boston courtroom to be arraigned in May 2014. Evidence collected in Lloyd's death investigation led to two additional murder charges against Hernandez in a separate case in Boston. In that case, Hernandez is accused of shooting Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado, allegedly over a spilled drink at a nightclub. The double shooting took place in July 2012, almost a year before Lloyd was killed. Hernandez, who pleaded not guilty, will be tried in that case after the Lloyd trial. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez At a news conference in May 2014, Suffolk County District Attorney Dan Conley announces that Hernandez has been indicted for the July 2012 killings of Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez is brought into the Attleboro, Massachusetts, District Court for his arraignment on June 26, 2013. He was charged with first-degree murder in Lloyd's death. Hernandez was released by his NFL team, the New England Patriots, less than two hours after his arrest. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez catches a pass during Super Bowl XLVI on February 5, 2012. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez scores a 12-yard touchdown in the third quarter of Super Bowl XLVI. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez celebrates his Super Bowl touchdown. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez answers questions during Super Bowl Media Day on January 31, 2012. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez scores a touchdown against the Buffalo Bills on January 1, 2012. Hernandez played three seasons with the Patriots, catching 18 touchdowns. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Tattoos on Hernandez's arm are visible during a pregame warmup on December 4, 2011. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez looks up after being tackled during a game in Philadelphia on November 27, 2011. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez carries the ball as the Patriots play the Cincinnati Bengals in Foxborough, Massachusetts, on September 10, 2010. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Rise and fall of Aaron Hernandez Hernandez, center, reacts during the SEC Championship game between the Florida Gators and the Alabama Crimson Tide on December 6, 2008. Hernandez's Gators went on to win the national title. Hide Caption 13 of 13JUST WATCHED Patriots player under investigation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Patriots player under investigation 01:48JUST WATCHED NFL player probed in suspicious death Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NFL player probed in suspicious death 00:40Investigators also searched a white SUV parked in Hernandez's driveway.It was the second time police searched the football player's home in connection with an investigation into the death Monday of Odin Lloyd. Lloyd's family says he was a friend of Hernandez and had partied with him.The Boston Globe reported that surveillance images recorded early Monday morning -- hours before Odin's death -- appeared to show Hernandez and Lloyd together on a Boston street. CNN has not independently confirmed the newspaper's report, which cited two law enforcement officials.Hernandez was last seen Friday afternoon when he arrived home, accompanied by his attorney. The athlete has yet to say anything publicly about the homicide case.Neither the district attorney nor Hernandez's lawyer have returned calls for comment.A statement from his lawyer acknowledged that there was an investigation, but didn't confirm media reports that authorities had questioned his client."It has been widely reported in the media that the state police have searched the home of our client, Aaron Hernandez, as part of an ongoing investigation," attorney Michael Fee said earlier this week. "Out of respect for that process, neither we nor Aaron will have any comment about the substance of that investigation until it has come to a conclusion."The 27-year-old Lloyd, a semi-pro football player, was found dead less than a mile from Hernandez's expansive home in North Attleborough. Police have searched the home and sifted through the nearby woods for clues.A law enforcement source with knowledge of the investigation said Lloyd was shot to death.As part of the investigation, authorities have also searched a strip club in Providence, Rhode Island, and copied video from a surveillance camera there, Providence Police Capt. Mike Correia said.A search warrant was executed Thursday at Club Desire, where authorities copied surveillance video from more than one day, he said.Police haven't revealed what they were looking for at the club. Authorities say the owner cooperated and consented to the search.CNN was unable to reach the club's owner or other club officers after leaving several messages.