Story highlights The Buffalo area braces for flooding and brutal winds that could knock down power linesBe ready to evacuate, Gov. Andrew Cuomo tells people at risk for flooding"It's not water," Cuomo says. "It's a toxic brew. It has sewage in it; it has runoff in it."Strangers are coming to help clear some of the mammoth snowfallWhat's worse than 7 feet of snow piled up in front of your house? How about the flooding that comes once those 7 feet of snow melt?That's exactly what some Buffalonians will grapple with when temperatures Monday warm up to around 60 degrees.Swift-water rescue teams and helicopters are already on standby in western New York in case anyone gets caught in a deluge.New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said residents shouldn't wait until the last minute to evacuate if they think their homes will get inundated. He advised such homeowners to clear their basements of valuables.The governor said dealing with flooding is worse than the snow.JUST WATCHED Inside Buffalo's Incident Command Center Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Inside Buffalo's Incident Command Center 01:48JUST WATCHED Views from an epic snowstorm Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Views from an epic snowstorm 01:01JUST WATCHED Drone captures stunning view of snowfall Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Drone captures stunning view of snowfall 01:51JUST WATCHED What is lake effect snow? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is lake effect snow? 01:16"It's not water," Cuomo said. "It's a toxic brew. It has sewage in it; it has runoff in it."State officials have beefed up stockpiles of generators and pumps and prepared almost 180,000 sandbags.After last week's nationwide bout with frigid weather, Buffalo temperatures could reach as 60 on Monday, according to the National Weather Service . Freezing temperatures are not expected again until Tuesday night."At least 3 feet of snow has melted so far," Dawn Buck of Depew, New York, told CNN's iReport on Sunday afternoon.But Erie County spokesman Benjamin Swanekamp said so far, the snow has been melting at a "relatively even pace.""The pace of the melting and the lack of additional rain has kept it manageable," Swanekamp said late Sunday night.About 700,000 people are under a flood warning until Wednesday, CNN meteorologist Pedram Javaheri said.Officials have been moving pumps into neighborhoods and sandbags near creeks. So far, the county hasn't received reports of major flooding.But Cuomo has asked residents to clean out storm drains in front of their houses "so the water has some place to go."Collapsing roofsThere's also the threat of more building collapses as all the rain saturates the snow on the tops of buildings, making the load even heavier.Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Workers clear snow from the field at Ralph Wilson Stadium on Sunday, November 23 in Orchard Park, New York. Snowed out at the stadium, the Bills are in Detroit to play their "home" NFL football game against the New York Jets on Monday night. Western New York continues to dig out from a lake-effect storm that dumped about a year's worth of snow in three days, trapping residents in their homes and stranding motorists on roadways. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Workers remove snow from the roof of a business on November 23 in West Seneca, New York. Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – People clear snow from a house on Saturday, November 22 in Orchard Park, New York. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Heavy snow caused the roof of Schmidt's Collision and Glass to collapse in Hamburg, New York, on November 22. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Heavy equipment moves snow at the Central Terminal that was removed from south Buffalo neighborhoods on Friday, November 21, after heavy lake-effect snowstorms. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Dump trucks wait to unload snow that was removed from south Buffalo, New York, neighborhoods on November 21. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – A man walks in his Buffalo neighborhood on Thursday, November 20. Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Firefighters from Cheektowaga and Depew, New York, assist an elderly patient from from Garden Gate Health Care Facility to the Appletree Mall November 20. About 180 patients from the facility were moved after officials questioned the safety of the roof under the weight of the snowfall. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – A police barrier prevents vehicles from entering Route 400 in West Seneca, New York, on November 20. Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Andrew Zelak cleans snow from his roof in Alden, New York, on November 20. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Snow covers a street in Buffalo on Wednesday, November 19. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Neighbors band together to make a supply run for groceries and gas in Lancaster, New York, on November 19. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Heavy snow covers Buffalo on Tuesday, November 18. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – A plane negotiates its way through the snow at Buffalo Niagara International Airport on November 18. All 50 states registered temperatures below freezing Tuesday morning. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Alisha Henry scrapes snow off her car before heading home from work November 18 in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – A band of storm clouds moves across Lake Erie and into Buffalo on November 18. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Commuters brave freezing temperatures in Philadelphia on November 18. Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Caelan Slate calls to say he is going to be a little late to work after losing control of his truck and landing in a ditch off the Pennyrile Parkway in Henderson County, Kentucky, on Monday, November 17. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: Photos: Wintry weather across U.S. Wintry weather across U.S. – Pedestrians make their way through downtown Cincinnati during the season's first snowfall on November 17. Hide Caption 19 of 19Several dozen roofs have already collapsed from just the weight of the snow, Erie County officials said.While most of the fallen buildings were unoccupied, Swanekamp said, a roof collapse at a dairy barn roof killed 25 cattleCuomo said structural engineers will examine schools and other government buildings that might be in danger of roof collapses. He said most state government offices will reopen Monday.Nasty winds tooThe National Weather Service in Buffalo issued a high wind warning from Monday afternoon until early Tuesday morning.High wind warnings are issued when sustained winds of at least 40 miles per hour are expected for at least an hour, with gusts of at least 58 mph at any time.The winds could topple trees and power lines, officials said. And with ongoing snow melt, the saturated ground will make it easier for some trees to come down.'City of Good Neighbors'Anthony Marchioli of Buffalo was so bored that he rented a small snow tractor to clear driveways on his street, CNN affiliate WKBW reported.On the way back from the rental company, he saw his pregnant wife standing in the street outside their house.Her water had broken. So Marchioli put her on the tractor and pushed through whiteout snow to Mercy Hospital, WKBW said.Eleven hours later, the couple's third daughter was born. Her name: Loxley Storm Marchioli.And despite the intimidating heaps of snow, strangers came to help any way they could.Erica Bartoe of Hamburg, New York, told CNN's iReport from Hamburg, New York that people had come to her town from other areas to help shovel snow and drop off donations."Buffalo is called the City of Good Neighbors for a reason," she said. "There were people everywhere helping out."