Story highlights The events in Ferguson, Missouri, show America remains deeply divided over raceGrand jury's decision in Michael Brown killing triggers more rage and fearWoman in Ferguson: "They don't care about black people. They treat us like criminals"Some people here just wanted the drama to end. Others say it can never end, not as long as a white cop can shoot an unarmed black teenager to death without consequences.On the street in front of Ferguson 's police station on Monday night, the tension crackled as hundreds of people awaited a grand jury's decision and chanted demands for an indictment.They were denied.Officer Darren Wilson will not be charged in the August 9 killing of 18-year-old Michael Brown."They don't care about black people," said Danielle Hines, in the throng outside the police station. "They treat us like criminals. This is what it feels like to be black in America."Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers walk past the smoldering remains of a beauty supply store in Ferguson, Missouri, on Tuesday, November 25. Ferguson has been struggling to return to normal since Michael Brown, an unarmed black teenager, was killed by Darren Wilson, a white police officer, on August 9. The grand jury did not indict Wilson in the case, prompting new waves of protests in Ferguson and across the country. Hide Caption 1 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A woman cleans up glass from a business' shattered window on November 25. Hide Caption 2 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A Ferguson firefighter surveys rubble at a strip mall that was set on fire overnight. Hide Caption 3 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters run away after police deployed tear gas in Ferguson on Monday, November 24. Hide Caption 4 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police take position during clashes with protesters on November 24. Hide Caption 5 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A protester stands in front of police vehicles with his hands up on November 24. Hide Caption 6 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police in riot gear move past a burning vehicle on November 24. Hide Caption 7 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A looter in Ferguson walks out of a burning Walgreens on November 24. Hide Caption 8 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Riot police clash with protesters on November 24. Hide Caption 9 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Firefighters work on extinguishing a Little Caesars restaurant on November 24. Hide Caption 10 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Smoke fills the streets of Ferguson as buildings burn on November 24. Hide Caption 11 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers grab a protester on November 24. Hide Caption 12 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A woman treats her face for possible tear gas exposure on November 24. Hide Caption 13 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson People walk away from a burning storage facility on November 24. Hide Caption 14 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A man steps out of a vandalized store on November 24. Hide Caption 15 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A police officer runs by a burning police car on November 24. Hide Caption 16 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers stand guard as protesters confront them on November 24. Hide Caption 17 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters block streets in St. Louis after the announcement of the grand jury's decision on November 24. Ferguson is a suburb of St. Louis. Hide Caption 18 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police confront protesters in Ferguson on November 24. Hide Caption 19 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A police officer points his rifle at demonstrators on November 24. Hide Caption 20 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters run for shelter as smoke fills the streets of Ferguson on November 24. Hide Caption 21 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson The glass windows of a store are shattered on November 24. Hide Caption 22 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A demonstrator listens to a car radio as the grand jury's decision is delivered in front of the Ferguson Police Department. Hide Caption 23 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Lesley McSpadden, mother of Michael Brown, is escorted away from the Ferguson Police Department on November 24. Hide Caption 24 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A group of protesters vandalizes a police vehicle in Ferguson on November 24. Hide Caption 25 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers confront protesters on November 24. Hide Caption 26 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Demonstrators block traffic during a protest in front of the Ferguson Police Department on November 24. Hide Caption 27 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Demonstrators gather outside the police station on November 24. Hide Caption 28 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters gather as they wait for the announcement of the grand jury decision on November 24. Hide Caption 29 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Members of the media line up in a parking lot across from the Buzz Westfall Justice Center on November 24. Hide Caption 30 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Residents begin to gather at the Michael Brown memorial ahead of the grand jury announcement. Hide Caption 31 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson National Guard troops arrive ahead of the grand jury announcement. Hide Caption 32 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Members of the Missouri National Guard are escorted out of the Buzz Westfall Justice Center. Hide Caption 33 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Demonstrators are confronted by police as they block a street before the grand jury announcement. Hide Caption 34 of 34JUST WATCHED Darren Wilson friend speaks to CNN Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Darren Wilson friend speaks to CNN 02:11JUST WATCHED Debris thrown at reporter in Ferguson Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Debris thrown at reporter in Ferguson 01:02JUST WATCHED Obama speaks as smoke fills the streets Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama speaks as smoke fills the streets 01:29The crowd surged toward metal gates in front of the station. Some people were crying; many were angry. They threw their hands up and screamed. A chant arose, " F*ck the police!"They were met by a phalanx of cops in full riot gear."No justice, no peace!"It soon turned ugly. Protesters turned their rage on police vehicles and boarded-up storefronts. The air was heavy with noxious gas. Police denied it was tear gas, but CNN reporters insisted they had been tear-gassed.Brown's shooting death ignited two weeks of violent protests last summer in Ferguson and rekindled the national debate on race and the criminal justice system. Supporters of Brown's family backed witness accounts that Wilson fired while Brown had his hands up in surrender. Wilson's supporters say that Brown was the aggressor and the officer fired in self-defense after the teen tried to take his gun.'I'm scared. This is so sad'The emotional response to the grand jury decision spoke to issues far larger than Ferguson -- to America's deep racial divisions.Deidre Johnson, who is raising four boys, had tears in her eyes as she learned the grand jury's decision."I just know they can't walk on our streets," she said. "I'm scared. This is so sad."Another mother echoed her feelings. "I hate this for our youth," said Shellie Robinson, who has a 19-year-old son. "We've been fighting for 100 days. This breaks my heart."JUST WATCHED Jackson: Civil rights have been violated Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jackson: Civil rights have been violated 01:28JUST WATCHED Crump: Mike Brown crying out from grave Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Crump: Mike Brown crying out from grave 03:35JUST WATCHED Ferguson protesters smash police car Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ferguson protesters smash police car 01:17The head of the Southern Poverty Law Center, which for decades has fought racial injustice in the Deep South, said Ferguson underscores a flawed and biased justice system."The events in Ferguson have made vivid just how wide the gulf is between the police and those who are policed in so many communities in our country," said Richard Cohen. "It's a gulf that's been formed by the history of discrimination in our country, a gulf that has been deepened by the systemic biases in our current criminal justice system. It's a gulf that breeds suspicion and mistrust, a gulf that undermines the very legitimacy of our system of justice."President Barack Obama, speaking after the announcement, said: "We need to recognize that the situation in Ferguson speaks to broader challenges that we still face as a nation."At Morehouse College in Atlanta, about 200 students chanted: "Ferguson's hell is America's hell." They chanted the names of other black men and women killed by police and quoted civil rights hero the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.His daughter, the Rev. Bernice King, had hoped people would rise above anger and make history."Decades from now, what do we want historians to write about this moment?" she asked. She urged protesters to speak up, but refrain from violence."Historians, 40 years from now, can reflect that we decided to live in such a way that humanity could continue," she said. "Nonviolence 365 (days a year) is the choice that we must make. The alternative may well be a civilization plunged into the abyss of annihilation."'This is our moment, St. Louis'Another religious leader, St. Louis Archbishop Robert Carlson, echoed calls for a restrained reaction. "This is our moment, St. Louis," he said several hours before the grand jury's findings were announced. "Whatever the grand jury decides, we can be an example for the rest of the world. Everyone is watching what we will do next, and violence is not the answer."Tory Wilson, co-founder of the "Hands Up United" organization, urged calm and restraint -- by the police."I'm urging calm for the police officers to not pepper spray me, tear gas me, mace me and shoot rubber bullets," he said. "People need to urge the police to be calm. Stop hurting kids, stop traumatizing our communities."Many questioned why, given the volatile emotions on the streets, prosecutors waited until long after darkness fell to announce the decision.Tension had been building in Ferguson for days. A crowd gathered outside police headquarters Monday evening, chanting, "Indict that cop!" and "Tell me what democracy looks like. This is what democracy looks like!"Ray Lewis stood out among the demonstrators. He was white, and he wore a police uniform. He carried a sign that said, "Police: try love."A retired police captain from Philadelphia, Lewis came to support the protesters and draw attention to what he considers excessive use of force by police across the country."I wanted to bring a white police captain's face to show people in Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas, that too often blacks are shown as rioting and as criminals. And that is just not true," he said. "Think twice about judging these people."He insisted he wasn't anti-cop. "I am anti-corrupt cop," he said.He was surrounded by people chanting, "Mike Brown! Mike Brown!"He said there's a lot of truth to what's being said about white cops not hesitating to pull the trigger on young black men. Police should recruit officers more sensitive to racial issues, Lewis said. Otherwise, police can be perceived as an occupying force."There's a thousand Fergusons all over America."