Story highlights Lava from Kilauea volcano engulfed a house, USGS saysThe residents had long evacuated and cleared out belongingsThere are not other homes nearby in any danger, officials sayOfficials can only watch the lava flow and warn residentsLava from Hawaii's Kilauea volcano engulfed a home today in Pahoa village, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. It's the first home to be destroyed by the lava flow.The residents had long evacuated and cleared out their belongings, officials said."The lava spread out and ignited the house before noon local time," said USGS spokeswoman Janet Baab. "There are no other homes in imminent danger. We are watching the flow closely and continue to monitor it."There is nothing residents can do about the 2,000-degree Fahrenheit river of lava that's been inching towards their town since June 27.Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Lava flows near a residential structure in Pahoa, Hawaii, on Monday, November 10. The lava flow from the Kilauea Volcano is advancing on the community of about 950 people on Hawaii's Big Island and claimed its first home in the town, which has been watching the slow-moving flow approach for months. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Lava burns near the town of Pahoa on Sunday, November 9. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Lava flows over a fence marking a property line near the town of Pahoa on Friday, October 31. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Lava burns vegetation as it approaches a property boundary early on the morning of Tuesday, October 28. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Pictured here on Tuesday morning, October 28, lava had crossed into two privately owned properties. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Smoke rises near Apa'a Street and Pahoa Village Road in Pahoa, Hawaii, on Monday, October 27. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – The horizontal incandescent cracks seen in the center and right portions of the photo, taken October 25, indicate that the flow was inflating: Fed by a continuing supply of lava beneath the cooling crust, the surface slowly rises. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Hawaiian Volcano Observatory geologists walk over the surface of the flow to track surface breakouts along a portion of the flow margin, about a kilometer (0.6 miles) up the slope from the flow front, on October 24. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Another view of the leading tip of the flow as it moves into the open pasture on October 24. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – Pu'u O'o Crater, in the eastern rift zone of Kilauea, remains filled with thick fumes, but recent views with the naked eye and thermal camera confirm that little change has occurred in the crater over recent weeks. The fumes mask a handful of small, glowing openings on the crater floor. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – A closer view of surface activity on September 15. "A lot of smoke (is) coming off the front, a lot of cracking noises, methane explosions are going on," said Tim Orr of the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). "So, it's a noisy situation out there just from all the burning vegetation." Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Lava crawls from Kilauea Lava crawls from Kilauea – A view of the sinuous, channelized flow that was moving to the northeast from Kilauea on June 27. The flow threatening Pahoa has advanced about 13 miles (21 kilometers) since then. Kilauea is one of the world's most active volcanoes. Hide Caption 12 of 12JUST WATCHED The science of lava Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The science of lava 02:17While the main lava flow has been stalled for a week , a smaller side flow of lava oozed out toward the home, according to Hawaii County's Civil Defense Agency."It's very difficult for the homeowners, because it's a stop-and-go phenomenon," said Darryl Oliveira, the civil defense agency's administrator.Evacuation advisories for residents down slope of the lava flow will continue as needed, officials said.Kilauea has been an active volcano since 1983.