Story highlights FBI looks into handwritten note threatening trees and shrubs in Ole Miss' Grove"Fans are being encouraged to report any suspicious behavior," official saysExtra law enforcement resources added around stadium ahead of the "Egg Bowl"University of Mississippi faces off against rival Mississippi StateAuthorities are investigating an anonymous threat against the University of Mississippi's signature greenery ahead of the school's big football game Saturday against bitter rival Mississippi State.A note received Tuesday on the Oxford, Mississippi, campus of Ole Miss said, "What's going to happen to ya'll on the field Saturday Aint nothing compared to what's going to happen on your beautiful campus. You won't be one of the most pretty campus's Next year. A lot of shrubs and trees are going to die; especially in the grove. Can't stop us."The handwritten note was signed, "Hail State Go to Hell TSUN."TSUN, a reference to Ole Miss, stands for "The School Up North" -- both a geographical and snarky term for Oxford's location 100 miles northeast of the town of Starkville and Mississippi State and widely used when discussing the schools' matchup.It was not clear how the note came to the attention of authorities, but university police said it was sent to the FBI's office in Jackson this week.The warning against The Grove, the University of Mississippi's storied tailgating area, also prompted campus police to add additional law enforcement resources to address fan safety around the stadium ahead of the matchup, known to fans as the Egg Bowl."Fans are being encouraged to report any suspicious behavior," said Danny Blanton, director of public relations at the University of Mississippi. "We are looking forward to having another hospitable, enjoyable experience to celebrate the final home game of the season."The threat recalls another Southeastern Conference rivalry that prompted one fan to the poison Auburn University's trees at the school's Toomer's Corner.Alabama fan Harvey Updyke Jr. targeted the famed oaks after Auburn won a contentious November 2010 football game against the University of Alabama. Updyke served 76 days in prison for the crime.Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – Crews remove pieces of live oaks on Tuesday, April 23, at Toomer's Corner in Auburn, Alabama. Auburn University spent two years trying to save the trees that a fan of rival Alabama poisoned in 2010. Auburn fans would roll the iconic oaks with toilet paper after big victories, and they did so for the last time on Saturday. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – A crane pulls off the top of the trunk Tuesday. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – Crews examine a trunk on the street on Tuesday. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – A woman is overcome with emotion while watching the trees get cut down on Tuesday. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – A crane grabs a tree trunk on Tuesday. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – A crew member saws a branch on Tuesday. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – A crew member works to bring down a live oak tree on Tuesday. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – Spectators watch as crews cut down a live oak on Tuesday. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – A crane is positioned to bring down the oak on Tuesday. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – One of the branches is chopped off on Tuesday. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – A spectator wipes away a tear Tuesday. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – A crew member puts a chainsaw to a branch on Tuesday. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – The sun rises before the live oaks are taken out on Tuesday. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – Auburn fans roll the famous oak trees at Toomer's Corner for the last time on Saturday, April 20, after Auburn held its A-Day spring football game. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – An Auburn fan rolls the tree on Saturday. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – Toilet paper hangs over fans on Saturday. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – An Auburn fan prepares to fling a roll on Saturday. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Photos: Auburn says goodbye to its oaks Auburn says goodbye to its oaks – Auburn fans bid goodbye to the famous oak trees on Saturday. Hide Caption 18 of 18"This longtime football rivalry has separated families and friends for generations, but while it's spirited, our attention has been focused mostly on the football field," Ole Miss police Chief Calvin Sellers said in a statement. "We encourage everyone to remember that this is a game, after all, not a time for hate. We are hopeful that passions have not escalated to the point that someone is prepared to do damage to a landmark for which all Mississippians take great pride."