Story highlights Shaylee Chuckulnaskit was 14 years oldShe died Friday at a hospital, a week after being shot in her school cafeteriaHers was the third death from the shooting; two students are recoveringThe shooter, Jaylen Fryberg, took his own life in the cafeteria.A third victim of last week's shooting at a Washington state high school has died, according to the hospital that treated victims.Fourteen-year-old Shaylee Chuckulnaskit died Friday night at Providence Regional Medical Center, not far from Marysville Pilchuck High School, where she and four other students were gunned down last Friday as they sat in the school cafeteria."The entire Providence family is deeply saddened by this news and we extend our heartfelt sympathy to Shaylee's family," the medical center said, added that the teenager known as Shay "passed away ... as a result of severe injuries from last Friday's school shooting."Shaylee Chuckulnaskit was just 14 years old when she died.Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Students from Marysville-Pilchuck High School write messages and prayers during a vigil Friday, October 24, at a church in Marysville, Washington. Earlier in the day, a student shot five people at the school before he committed suicide, law enforcement officials told CNN. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Community members and students gather for the vigil. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – People embrace at the church where students were taken to be reunited with parents. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Parents crowd around buses as students arrive at the church. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – A woman waits on a curb at the church. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – People hug after arriving at the church. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – A girl is consoled at the church after the shooting. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Police monitor the school's athletic fields after the shooting. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Emergency personnel respond to the school after the shooting. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Authorities "are confident that there is only one single shooter," Marysville police spokesman Robert Lamoureux told reporters. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Students walk across a field after reports of shots being fired at the school. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – Authorities first learned about the shooting after getting a 911 phone call around 10:30 a.m. (1:30 p.m. ET) from someone inside the school, Lamoureux said. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Photos: Shooting at Washington high school Shooting at Washington high school – A student locked down inside a classroom told CNN by phone that the shooting began in the cafeteria. Hide Caption 13 of 13The Chuckulnaskit family released its own statement, saying: "Our hearts are broken at the passing of our beautiful daughter. Shay means everything to us."In Shay's short life she has been a radiant light bringing us incredible joy and happiness. She has been a loving daughter, a caring sister, a devoted friend and a wonderful part of our community. We can't imagine life without her."In the hours and days following the shooting, two other Marysville families were thrown into sudden mourning with the deaths of students Zoe Galasso and Gia Soriano.Shaylee was one of three students hospitalized after a gunman opened fire in the cafeteria.The shooter, Jaylen Fryberg, took his own life, in the school cafeteria.