Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – The iconic home of Vito Corleone from the 1972 classic "The Godfather" is for sale in Staten Island, New York. The home is listed for nearly $3 million. Hide Caption 1 of 15Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – There has been only one new owner since the 1972 film. Hide Caption 2 of 15Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – The yard -- where Marlon Brando's character Vito Corleone died in the film -- now has a saltwater pool. Hide Caption 3 of 15Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – The home's yard was also used for the wedding scenes in the movie. Hide Caption 4 of 15Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – The home was renovated in 2012, according to the real estate agent. Hide Caption 5 of 15Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – The nearly 6,300-square-foot home features a gourmet eat-in kitchen. Hide Caption 6 of 15Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – The home has coffered ceilings, as well as custom moldings. Hide Caption 7 of 15Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – While broker Connie Profaci said none of the movie's scenes were shot inside the home, its sprawling 24,000 square foot property was the setting for the Mafia epic's opening. Hide Caption 8 of 15Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – In addition to the eat-in kitchen, the home also features a formal dining room. Hide Caption 9 of 15Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – The home has five bedrooms and seven bathrooms. Hide Caption 10 of 15Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – A view of one of the home's five bedrooms. Hide Caption 11 of 15Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – Another bedroom is pictured from the iconic house. Hide Caption 12 of 15Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – This bedroom is set up as a nursery. Hide Caption 13 of 15Photos: 'Godfather' home up for sale 'Godfather' home up for sale – The home also features a gym, a "man cave" and a English pub themed bar area. Hide Caption 14 of 15