Story highlights The civil rights leader discusses Kennedy's role in getting him freed from prisonThe recording was found in a Tennessee attic after five decadesIllusionist David Copperfield bought the tape and gave it to a museum"It gave me chills," Copperfield saysA previously unheard recording of Martin Luther King Jr. discussing John F. Kennedy will be played Monday in the place where the civil rights leader was assassinated.King's comments are on a 53-year-old reel-to-reel tape discovered in a Tennessee attic several years ago. But the last several minutes are only now being made public.The civil rights leader is heard discussing Kennedy's role in securing his release from a Georgia prison after he was sentenced to four months of hard labor for a traffic violation two weeks before the election that sent Kennedy to the White House.Then-Sen. Kennedy placed a call to Coretta Scott King against the advice of close advisers, expressing his concern to King's wife. His brother, Robert Kennedy also called the Georgia judge who had sentenced King to the chain gang and denied him bond. King was freed the next day.Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. was best known for his role in the civil rights movement and nonviolent protests. His life's work has been honored with a national holiday, schools and public buildings named after him, and a memorial on the National Mall in Washington. Take a look back at the late civil rights leader's defining years. Here, King speaks in Washington in 1968, the year he was assassinated. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King outlines boycott strategies to his advisers and organizers on January 27, 1956. Seated are the Rev. Ralph Abernathy, left, and Rosa Parks, center, who was the catalyst for the protest of bus riders. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King sits for a police mugshot after his arrest for directing a citywide boycott of segregated buses on February 24, 1956. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King stands in front of a bus at the end of the Montgomery bus boycott in Montgomery, Alabama, on December 26, 1956. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King speaks during the Prayer Pilgrimage near the Reflecting Pool in Washington on May 17, 1957. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Accompanied by his wife, Coretta Scott, King leaves Harlem Hospital after being stabbed near the heart on September 20, 1958. The near-fatal incident occurred when he was autographing copies of his book at a Harlem bookstore. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King delivers a sermon at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta in September 1960. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King, his wife and children, Yolanda, 5, and Martin Luther III, 3, play the piano together in their living room in Atlanta in 1960. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Moderator John McCaffery, left, segregationist editor James J. Kilpatrick and King debate segregation in New York on November 11, 1960. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King addresses a crowd of demonstrators outside the Lincoln Memorial during the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom in Washington on August 28, 1963. He delivered his famous "I Have a Dream" speech to more than 250,000 people. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. President Lyndon B. Johnson talks with King and civil rights leaders at the White House. On July 2, 1964, Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act into law. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King speaks with Malcolm X at a press conference on March 26, 1964. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. In 1963, King became the first African-American to be named Time magazine's Man of the Year. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King receives the Nobel Prize for Peace from the president of the Nobel Prize committee, Gunnar Jahn, in Oslo, Norway, on December 10, 1964. At the time he was the youngest person to win the prize. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King and his wife lead a black voting rights march from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama, on March 30, 1965. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King addresses civil rights marchers in Selma in April 1965. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Mississippi patrolmen shove King during the 220-mile "March Against Fear" from Memphis, Tennessee, to Jackson, Mississippi, on June 8, 1966. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King signs the Degree Roll at Newcastle University after receiving an honorary Doctor of Civil Law degree, in Newcastle, England, on November 14, 1967. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King and comedian Bob Hope, right, talk at John F. Kennedy International airport in New York on November 14, 1967. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Dr. Ralph Abernathy, Jesse Jackson and others stand on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee, on April 4, 1968, pointing in the direction of the gunshots that killed King, who lies at their feet. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King's body is pictured on April 8, 1968, following his murder in Memphis. His wife, Coretta, led a silent march of 50,000 people through the streets of Memphis before making a televised speech at his funeral. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. The statue of King is pictured at a memorial in August 2013 in Washington, as thousands of people gathered to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, where King gave his "I Have a Dream" speech. Hide Caption 22 of 22The interviewer asked Dr. King if he thought Kennedy had any influence on his release."Well, I would say first that many forces worked together to bring about my release," King said. "I don't think any one force brought it about, but you had a plurality of forces working together. I'm sure that the interest of the public, in general, all over America had something, a great deal to do with it."In fact, Atlanta Mayor William Hartsfield was working to negotiate King's release from incarceration, which began with his arrest during a protest eight days earlier, according to Taylor Branch's historical account in his book, "Parting the Waters.""Now, it is true that Sen. Kennedy did take a specific step," King said. "He was in contact with officials in Georgia during my arrest and he called my wife, made a personal call and expressed his concern and said to her that he was working and trying to do something to make my release possible."John F. Kennedy made the call to King's wife at the urging of his brother-in-law Sargent Shriver, but out of the presence of campaigns aides who were concerned it could cost him southern support in the election 13 days away, Branch wrote.Robert Kennedy, who was initially upset when he found out about the call, reversed himself later that day and placed his own call to the judge, Branch wrote. King told the interviewer he thought it had "some part" in his release."His brother, who at that time was his campaign manager, also made direct contact with officials and even a judge in Georgia, so the Kennedy family did have some part, at least they expressed a concern and they did have some part in the release, but I must make it clear that many other forces worked to bring it about also."The Kennedys' intervention is credited with shifting support of Black voters in crucial northern states to the Kennedy side and away from Richard Nixon, whose campaign only offered a "no comment" when asked about the civil rights leader's imprisonment.The recording is from an interview conducted on December 21, 1960, in Chattanooga, Tennessee, by a man who intended to write a book about the civil rights movement. He never finished the book and the tape was lost until the man's son rediscovered it five decades later while rummaging through dilapidated boxes left there by his father.The first five minutes, in which King discusses his definition of nonviolence and its importance in the civil rights movement, was made public in 2012."I would ... say that it is a method which seeks to secure a moral end through moral means," he said. "And it grows out of the whole concept of love, because if one is truly nonviolent that person has a loving spirit, he refuses to inflict injury upon the opponent because he loves the opponent."King continued, "I am convinced that when the history books are written in future years, historians will have to record this movement as one of the greatest epics of our heritage," he said. "It represents struggle on the highest level of dignity and discipline."In another part of the recording, King describes his visit to Nigeria and the importance of the civil rights movement in the United States and abroad."There is quite a bit of interest and concern in Africa for the situation in the United States. African leaders in general, and African people in particular are greatly concerned about the struggle here and familiar with what has taken place," he said, "We must solve this problem of racial injustice if we expect to maintain our leadership in the world, and if we expect to maintain a moral voice in a world that is two-thirds color."Keya Morgan, a collector and expert on rare historical artifacts, brokered its sale to illusionist David Copperfield, who then donated the tape to the National Civil Rights Museum, which is housed in the Lorraine Motel in Memphis.King was shot to death standing on a balcony of the Memphis, Tennessee, motel on April 4, 1968. The entire recording will be played Monday in the last room where the civil rights leader slept."When I heard it, I got goose bumps all over," Morgan said, "It feels like he's sitting in your living room and talking to you.""It gave me chills," Copperfield told CNN in September 2012, when he bought the tape for an undisclosed amount. It was striking because the recording revealed King in a relaxed mood, he said."We've heard Dr. King talk about peaceful change in the public forum, but this is an audio tape of him talking conversationally," he said. "I'm certainly no expert, but it's the first time I've ever heard him in that context and I was very moved by it."Copperfield said he gave the recording to the museum because it "is just the right thing to do.""He's certainly one of the great inspirational figures in history," Copperfield said. "So much of what I do, in my own little way, is making people dream, transporting them, making them think differently. That's what magic does. His dream was far greater than any entertainer can provide."