Story highlights Chris Cuomo will talk with Dennis Rodman during CNN's New Day on FridayRodman entered rehab after returning from a controversial trip to North KoreaDuring that trip, Rodman launched into an outburst while being interviewed by CuomoRodman later apologized and said he had been drinkingIt may be more important to tell you what is not motivating my trip to see Dennis Rodman.I am not looking to spar about his "friend," the much-maligned ruler of North Korea, or to debate the merits of basketball diplomacy in that country when I sit down to talk with him live Friday morning.Dennis can speak to an issue that is a bigger threat to our country than Kim Jong Un: addiction.Rodman may be in the fight of and for his life, and it is a battle all too familiar these days.I want to talk to him about that, his recent bottom, what has kept him from sobriety. And hopefully he is willing to talk about the challenges and the benefits of rehab, as readily as he discusses the virtues of his despot "friend."JUST WATCHED Rodman to CNN: I don't give a s*** Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rodman to CNN: I don't give a s*** 08:25JUST WATCHED Rodman fiery on Kenneth Bae question Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rodman fiery on Kenneth Bae question 02:27Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – During his Hall of Fame basketball career, Dennis Rodman was known for his flashy looks on and off the court. Here, Rodman sports the logo of the Chicago Bulls, who he won the NBA title with in 1996, 1997 and 1998. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman stretches before a game in Seattle in 1996. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman signs his first autobiography, "Bad As I Wanna Be," in a Chicago bookstore in 1996. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman dives for a loose ball during a game in 1997. Rodman is one of the NBA's all-time greatest rebounders, leading the league in that category from 1992 to 1998. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman arrives at the Academy Awards ceremony in 1997. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman appears on "The Tonight Show with Jay Leno" in 1998. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman is hit with a trash can by Curt Hennig during a pro wrestling match in Sydney in 2000. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman rocks gold pants in 2004. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman took part in the 2006 Lingerie Bowl. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman appears in costume for a book signing of his second autobiography, "I Should be Dead by Now," in 2005. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman wears makeup similar to the rock band Kiss in 2006. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman arrives at the Basketball Hall of Fame for his enshrinement in 2011. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman wears face paint in 2011 while playing a basketball game with other NBA greats in Macau. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman puckers his lips and holds the face of writer/director Alex Forstenhausler at the "So You Think You Can Roast?" event at the New York Friars Club in 2013. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos Dennis Rodman: Hoops, hair and tattoos – Rodman attends the finale of the television show "All-Star Celebrity Apprentice" in 2013. Rodman has appeared on several reality TV shows, even winning "Celebrity Mole" in 2004. Hide Caption 15 of 15Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Former NBA basketball star Dennis Rodman is surrounded by North Korean officials and members of the media upon his arrival at Sunan International Airport in Pyongyang, North Korea, on Tuesday, June 13. The trip comes at a time of heightened tension between Washington and Pyongyang. Hide Caption 1 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Rodman arrives in North Korea on June 13. When asked if he planned to talk to North Korean officials about the four Americans detained there, Rodman said: "Well that's not my purpose right now. ... My purpose is to go over there and try to see if I can keep bringing sports to North Korea." Hide Caption 2 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Rodman waves to photographers at Beijing Capital International Airport ahead of his departure to Pyongyang on June 13. Hide Caption 3 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea At the Beijing airport, Rodman told CNN he was hoping to do "something that's pretty positive" before boarding a plane bound for North Korea. Hide Caption 4 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea In a handout photo from the North Korean government, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un talks with Rodman during an exhibition basketball game in Pyongyang on January 8, 2014. Rodman, a former contestant on Donald Trump's pre-presidency reality TV show "Celebrity Apprentice," is one of the few Americans to have met Kim. Hide Caption 5 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Rodman sings "Happy Birthday" to Kim before the exhibition game in Pyongyang. In what he calls "basketball diplomacy," Rodman participated in a game between North Korea and a team of former NBA players. Hide Caption 6 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea A bottle of vodka with illustrations of Rodman, Kim and Rodman's name written in Korean sits on the roof of a car outside a Pyongyang hotel in January 2014. Hide Caption 7 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Son Kwang Ho, vice minister of North Korea's Sports Ministry, greets Rodman at the airport in Pyongyang in January 2014. Hide Caption 8 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Rodman plays one-on-one with a North Korean player during a practice session in Pyongyang in December 2013. During the session, Rodman selected the members of the North Korean team who would play in Pyongyang against the visiting NBA stars. Hide Caption 9 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Rodman holds a cigar as he speaks to North Korean basketball players during the practice session in December 2013. Hide Caption 10 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Rodman attracts notice as he enters the Koryo Hotel in Pyongyang in December 2013. Hide Caption 11 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Rodman arrives at Beijing's airport before a flight to North Korea in December 2013. Hide Caption 12 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Rodman shows photos of himself with Kim while talking to journalists at the Beijing airport in September 2013. It was after his second trip to the reclusive nation. Hide Caption 13 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Rodman faces questions about detained American Kenneth Bae at the Beijing airport in September 2013. "It is not my job to talk about Kenneth Bae," he told reporters. Bae was later released from detention in North Korea in 2014. Hide Caption 14 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Kim talks with Rodman during a dinner in this undated photo published on the homepage of North Korea's Rodong Sinmun newspaper on September 7, 2013. Hide Caption 15 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Rodman arrives at North Korea's Pyongyang airport in September 2013. Hide Caption 16 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Airport staff take pictures of the former NBA star at a check-in counter in Beijing in September 2013. Hide Caption 17 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea Rodman hugs Kim in this photo released by the Korean Central News Agency after a basketball game in Pyongyang in February 2013. Hide Caption 18 of 19 Photos: Dennis Rodman's trips to North Korea A photo released by the Korean Central News Agency shows Kim and Rodman clapping during a basketball game between the Harlem Globetrotters and players from the North Korean University of Physical Education in February 2013. Hide Caption 19 of 19Maybe that friendship has metaphoric value for Rodman: keeping cozy with his own demons, abusing drugs to hide from himself -- just as he hid from the reality of that country and its ruler?Too far? Probably, but he is face-to-face with a battle that too many are fighting and losing. I want to see how much fight the hardwood warrior has in him to get sober and treat his illness.I hope he is as fired up about his future as he was in our last interview about defending his friend.The last time we talked it was earlier this month while he was in Pyongyang for a basketball game on Kim's birthday.I didn't intend to get into a joust with the former NBA star, but believe it or not, Rodman is the U.S. citizen with the most direct line to a dictator with nuclear weapons, and I needed to ask him some questions about the political nature of his trip.He said later he was drunk during the interview and when he got back to the United States, he checked into a rehab center.This time we're going to talk in person. I want to know, I want to see for myself, how he's doing in the biggest battle of his life.