(CNN) Witnesses talk about wiseguys, rats and hiding bodies, and list the do's and don'ts of organized crime. A tattoo on the defendant's arm reads "Death before dishonor." Peppered into riveting testimony are nicknames like Skinny Dom, Vinny Gorgeous, Louie Haha and Tommy Shots.If it sounds like a Hollywood movie script, it kind of already is.But this is real life and at the center of it all is 80-year-old Vincent Asaro -- the alleged former Bonanno crime family captain who's on trial in federal court to face charges in a string of crimes over 40 years. Among them: murder, racketeering and the famed 1978 Lufthansa heist at JFK International Airport that helped inspire part of the plot in the 1990 film "Goodfellas."In recordings made by the government's key witness and played in court Thursday, Asaro appears to bemoan not getting a larger cut of the Lufthansa score.In that robbery, a band of robbers stole about $5 million in cash and nearly $1 million in jewels from an airline cargo building.Asaro was one of five reputed mobsters indicted in January in long-unsolved crime.But by 2011, the man accused of helping orchestrate one of the biggest heists in American history was measuring his scores in much smaller sums, boasting in a recorded conversation with cousin Gaspare Valenti about winning a mere $200 in a Texas Hold 'em game.Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Actor Ray Liotta has over 100 credits to his name, but for many fans he will always be... Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Mobster turned snitch Henry Hill in "Goodfellas," which was released on September 19, 1990. Let's catch up with some of the other members of the cast. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Robert De Niro hosted a screening of "Goodfellas" during the 2015 Tribeca Film Festival in April in New York. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? De Niro Starred as James "Jimmy the Gent" Conway in the film. The character was based on real-life mobster James Burke, who died of cancer while incarcerated in 2008. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Joe Pesci has all but disappeared from Hollywood and rarely appears in films. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Pesci won an Academy Award for best supporting actor for the role of Tommy DeVito in "Goodfellas." Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Lorraine Bracco is no stranger to fans of mob projects. She shot to fame as Tony Soprano's therapist, Dr. Jennifer Melfi, on " The Sopranos." Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Years before the hit HBO series, Bracco portrayed Henry Hill's long-suffering wife, Karen. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Paul Sorvino has said he seriously considered dropping out of "Goodfellas" at the last minute because he worried he wouldn't be able to pull it off. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Thank goodness he changed his mind, as Sorvino's quietly menacing Paul Cicero is one of the highlights of the movie. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Frank Vincent is another "Sopranos" alum, having appeared as "Phil Leotardo" in the series. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? As Billy Batts, Vincent plays a pivotal role in "Goodfellas." Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Samuel L. Jackson is now a major movie star and commercial pitch person. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Jackson was less famous when he appeared as Stacks Edwards." Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Michael Imperioli is most famous for his years spent portraying Christopher Moltisanti on "The Sopranos." Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? A much younger Imperioli is part of film history as Spider in "Goodfellas." Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Debi Mazar has done everything from hosting the Cooking Channel series "Extra Virgin" with her husband, Gabriele Corcos, to portraying public relations professional "Shauna Roberts" on the HBO series "Entourage." Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? In "Goodfellas" Mazar appeared as Liotta's girlfriend Sandy. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? In addition to appearing in mobster projects like "Goodfellas" and "The Sopranos," Tony Darrow has run into some legal trouble of his own, including pleading guilty in 2011 to one count of participating in an extortion conspiracy in a case involving the Gambino crime family. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: 'Goodfellas' cast: Where are they now? Darrow played restaurant owner Sonny Bunz in "Goodfellas." Hide Caption 20 of 20Lufthansa heistValenti is one of two witnesses cooperating with the government who have been called in the trial's opening week, and it's his testimony that ties Asaro to the most serious charges he is facing, including what prosecutors call the "score of all scores" -- the Lufthansa heist.Valenti testified this week that Asaro invited him to take part in the heist, and on the night of the robbery, cautioned him to "make sure you do everything you're supposed to do. Don't dog it. If anything happens, stand your ground, do the robbery the best you can."While Asaro allegedly waited outside the terminal in a decoy "crash car" which would intercept the police in case they responded to the heist, the robbery team, brandishing guns, detained Lufthansa terminal workers and robbed the vault of 50 boxes -- each containing $125,000; a silver box of jewelry and German money, Valenti testified.Valenti recalled being "happy" and "euphoric" after the group realized the size of its score.But in the recordings made in 2011, Valenti laments to Asaro: "Look at what we come down to."Asaro replies: "It's life, we did it to ourselves. ... We never got our right money, what we were supposed to get. We got f---ed all around ... that f---ing Jimmy kept everything," referring to former partner Jimmy Burke, who inspired the character Jimmy the Gent, played by Robert De Niro, in "Goodfellas."When asked by prosecutors what money Asaro was talking about, Valenti testified it was in reference to the Lufthansa heist.Burke died in 1996 of cancer while serving 20 years in prison for the murder of a drug dealer.Dealing with 'a rat'In grim testimony that gave a glimpse into how the mob deals with those who cooperate with law enforcement, Valenti said Asaro and Burke buried the body of a warehouse owner whom they accused of being a "rat." Paul Katz disappeared in 1969.Asaro allegedly told Valenti that he "did most of the digging. Jimmy hurt his hand when he killed Paul. They strangled him with a dog chain."The body was buried at a vacant house owned by Asaro and covered up with cement, according to Valenti's testimony.Valenti testified that years later, he was instructed by Asaro to dig up the body and move it from its hiding place.'These are some fairy tales'Throughout Valenti's testimony, Asaro periodically shook his head and conferred with his lawyers, at one point mouthing the word "liar." Family members of Asaro's also could be heard muttering, "These are some fairy tales. ... They gave him a book to memorize ... he should get an Academy Award."Asaro attorney Diane Ferrone called the government's witnesses "criminal cooperators" in her opening statement, who "have a motive to lie." She noted Valenti's history of borrowing money he couldn't pay back and accused him of cooperating for money, saying everything he "did was to make a buck ... his latest con victim is the U.S. government."During cross-examination of Sal Vitale -- the first government witness -- defense attorney Elizabeth Macedonia had him detail the 11 murders he pleaded guilty to as part of his cooperation agreement with the government and highlighted that he has been paid for testifying for the government in almost 10 trials, including a $250,000 payment.