It's Friday, and here are five things to know for your new day.NOBEL PEACE PRIZEThe Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Tunisia's National Dialogue Quartet today for its "decisive contribution to the building of a pluralistic democracy in Tunisia in the wake of the Jasmine Revolution of 2011." The quartet is a coalition of groups the Nobel committee deemed important to building democracy and keeping peace in the nation. The Nobel committee always keeps you guessing. The quartet probably wasn't on too many short lists heading into the announcement.SYRIA RUSSIAN MISSILESDid they, or didn't they?: U.S. officials say a handful of U.S. officials say a handful of cruise missiles fired by Russia at targets in Syria didn't quite hit their mark. Monitoring by U.S. military and intelligence assets in the region concluded they crashed in Iran. Not so, says the Russian Defense Ministry. And Iran's semi-official FARS news agency also weighed in, saying the country's defense ministry rejected the reports.JUST WATCHED Source: Russian missiles aimed for Syria crash in Iran Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Source: Russian missiles aimed for Syria crash in Iran 02:31SPENCER STONEStabbed again: It's been an It's been an eventful couple of months for Spencer Stone . In August, the U.S. airman was tending to stab wounds after helping stop a gun attack on a European train. He was hailed a hero. He's again tending to stab wounds. This time in a California hospital. Stone was stabbed during an altercation in downtown Sacramento this week when he was out with some friends. Police are investigating and looking for two Asian men who fled the scene. Stone is in serious condition, but the wounds aren't life-threatening.JUST WATCHED New video shows France train hero getting stabbed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New video shows France train hero getting stabbed 01:58INDIANA FRATERNITY VIDEOA T uh-Oh: The Alpha Tau Omega fraternity is history at Indiana University. The The Alpha Tau Omega fraternity is history at Indiana University. The national office shut it down after a video surfaced showing members cheering on a brother who was involved in a sexually explicit act. It's not certain that anything illegal happened, but ATO headquarters called it "highly inappropriate and vulgar" and "contrary to the ideals and principles" of the fraternity. Boys being boys isn't an excuse anymore.JUST WATCHED ATO frat shut down after sexually explicit video surfaces Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH ATO frat shut down after sexually explicit video surfaces 01:06CHEF PRUDHOMMEFood legend gone: Paul Prudhomme didn't create Cajun and Creole cuisine, but he sure made it popular. The Paul Prudhomme didn't create Cajun and Creole cuisine, but he sure made it popular. The iconic New Orleans chief died yesterday at 75 after a brief illness. Prudhomme was one of the nation's first celebrity chefs, and his restaurants attracted huge crowds.