The famed feminist attorney interrogated the 78-year-old comedian and Jell-O huckster under oath Friday in Boston, Massachusetts, about his alleged serial doping and groping of young women. She says no question was off-limits.A video camera was rolling, but what it captured will remain under seal for at least the next 60 days. The lawyers have been told not to discuss what was said during the deposition.But it's no secret that Allred had been eagerly awaiting her moment with a man she views as a sexual predator."Mr. Cosby, I'm really looking forward to seeing you in person at this deposition," she said recently on CNN, adding he "needs to get ready."Allred said Saturday that she was able to question Cosby from about 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and wants to ask him more questions. She added, crytpically, that she expects to file legal motions in connection with what took place at the deposition.It was a week in which Cosby took a bicoastal legal bath. Bids to toss out lawsuits by his accusers failed in both California and Massachusetts.And he faces a tough weekend in the court of public opinion.On Friday night, 27 of Cosby's accusers, ranging in age from 48 to 80, appeared together in the same studio on NBC's "Dateline." Several said they were drugged and sexually assaulted by Cosby when they befriended him in hopes he'd help their careers in show business.More than 40 women have accused Cosby of sexual misconduct over several decades. The star has not been criminally charged and has vehemently denied wrongdoing.A federal judge in Springfield, near Cosby's Massachusetts home, ruled Friday that three women can continue to pursue a defamation action against the comedian and his handlers. Tamara Green, Therese Serignese and Linda Traitz allege Cosby and his representatives defamed them while defending Cosby. Their offiicial line had been that the women fabricated sexual abuse allegations against Cosby.Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? More than 50 women have spoken out to various media outlets about allegations of sexual misconduct by Bill Cosby. Here are 25, in chronological order, who have spoken with CNN, spoken on camera about their allegations or been the subject of responses from Cosby's attorneys. Read more on the allegations and Cosby's denials. Hide Caption 1 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? In January 2004, Andrea Constand, then a 31-year-old staffer for the women's basketball team at Temple University -- Cosby's alma mater -- was at the comedian's Cheltenham, Pennsylvania, home when Cosby provided her medication that made her dizzy, she alleged the next year. She later woke up to find her bra undone and her clothes in disarray, she further alleged to police in her home province of Ontario, Canada, in January 2005. She was the first person to publicly allege sexual assault by Cosby. The comedian settled a civil suit with Constand that alleged 13 Jane Does had similar stories of sexual abuse. On December 30, 2015, Cosby was charged with sexual assault in relation to the 2004 accusation, Costand's attorney Dolores Troiani confirmed to CNN. That ended in a mistrial after the jury deadlocked in June 2017, but prosecutors immediately announced they would retry the case. Hide Caption 2 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Janice Dickinson alleged she and Cosby had dinner in Lake Tahoe, Nevada, in 1982 and he gave her a glass of red wine and a pill she believed was for menstrual cramps. "The last thing I remember was Bill Cosby in a patchwork robe, dropping his robe and getting on top of me. And I remember a lot of pain," she told "Entertainment Tonight." Cosby's attorney said in a statement that Dickinson's allegation was a "fabricated lie" that contradicted what she wrote in her autobiography and what she said during a 2002 New York Observer interview. Hide Caption 3 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Heidi Thomas says she met Cosby in 1984 and visited him at a house outside of Reno, Nevada, for "coaching." At the time, she was a 24-year-old aspiring actress and model known as Heidi Johnson. Thomas says Cosby offered her a glass of Chablis, and she later woke up with Cosby next to her in bed, naked, and "forcing himself in my mouth." A representative of Cosby did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Thomas' allegation. Hide Caption 4 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Cindra Ladd, longtime wife of Oscar-winning film producer Alan Ladd Jr., alleges Bill Cosby sexually assaulted her in 1969 when she was single and 21. Cosby's representatives did not respond to CNN's repeated requests for comment. Hide Caption 5 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? The now-wife of "The Incredible Hulk" star Lou Ferrigno, Carla Ferrigno, told CNN that Cosby forcibly kissed her at his home in 1967. Carla Ferrigno said she told her husband, whom she married in 1980, about the incident about five years ago and he advised her to stay silent. Hide Caption 6 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Kristina Ruehli was a secretary for a talent agency in 1965 that had Cosby as a client. She said she was invited to a party to celebrate a taping of "Hollywood Palace." Ruehli said she and an actress were the only attendees at the party. She said she became unconscious after consuming drinks and later woke up to find Cosby attempting to force her mouth onto his pubic area. She said she pulled away to vomit and drove herself home. It was the last time she would see Cosby, she told CNN. Hide Caption 7 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Linda Brown was a 21-year-old model in 1969 when, she alleges, Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted her in Canada near her hometown. She says she was introduced to the comedian by her then-manager, had dinner with Cosby and was later served a soft drink by Cosby at an apartment. "I took a sip and blacked out," Brown said at a press conference with her attorney in February. "When I awakened, I was naked in the bed beside him." Hide Caption 8 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Joan Tarshis was a 19-year-old actress in 1969 when, she said, she met Cosby in Los Angeles. The two became friendly. One night after taping his sitcom, he invited her back to his bungalow and fixed her a "redeye" (a Bloody Mary topped with beer), she alleged. "The next thing I remember was coming to on his couch while being undressed," she told Hollywood Elsewhere. "I was sickened by what was happening to me and shocked that this man I had idolized was now raping me. Of course I told no one." It was the first of two similar incidents, said Tarshis, who is now a journalist and publicist. Hide Caption 9 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Linda Joy Traitz said Cosby offered her a ride home while she was working as a waitress at a restaurant in Los Angeles that he co-owned in 1969. On the way, they detoured to the beach. They parked and he offered her drugs "to relax," she alleged. After refusing "he kept offering me the pills," she alleged, and it made her feel uncomfortable. She claimed he then groped her chest, pushing her down in the seat and toward the door, and tried to lie on top of her. She got out of the car and ran, she said. She added that she was "absolutely not" raped. He tried to calm her, she said, then drove her home in silence. Traitz has a criminal record in Florida and spent time in prison on a conviction for drug trafficking, according to state records. Cosby's lawyer passed on her lengthy rap sheet. Traitz spoke openly about her record to CNN. Hide Caption 10 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Playboy bunny Victoria Valentino said her friend Francesca Emerson first introduced her to Cosby hoping to help her get work on his show "I Spy" in the late '60s. Valentino said after an interview in his trailer, Cosby invited her and a different friend to dinner, where they drank red wine and Cosby offered her pills to "cheer up," she said. She said she felt "stoned," slurring her words. They then went with him to what she described as a "ballers pad," an office-like space in an apartment building, with two loveseats and no working phone. Valentino said she was feeling "totally out of it" when she saw Cosby attempting to advance on her passed-out friend. She said she began reaching out to Cosby to pull him off her friend when he pushed her down, first pushing himself near her mouth, before turning her around and raping her. Hide Caption 11 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Famed model Beverly Johnson alleged that Bill Cosby drugged her in the 1980s at his Manhattan brownstone, where she'd gone to rehearse lines. During the meeting, Johnson said, Cosby was "very insistent" she drink a cup of cappuccino he had made for her. "After that second sip, I knew I had been drugged," she alleged. "It was very powerful, it came on very quickly." Johnson said she then confronted and cursed at the comedian, claiming, "I wanted him to know he had drugged me." She alleged that Cosby got angry, grabbed her, took her outside and flagged down a taxi for her. Cosby's attorney didn't immediately return a CNN call for comment on Johnson's allegation, which she first made in a Vanity Fair article. Hide Caption 12 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? In 1970, Tamara Green was an aspiring model in her early 20s. She alleged an incident occurred during a working lunch with Cosby and others. Green told Matt Lauer of the "Today" show that at the lunch, she was suffering from the flu and Cosby "produced two capsules." She said they made her feel "great" at first, but then left her "almost literally face down on the table of this restaurant." Cosby took her to her apartment and started "groping me and kissing me and touching me and handling me and you know, taking off my clothes," Green said. Green further detailed her allegations in a defamation lawsuit against Cosby filed in December. Hide Caption 13 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Judy Huth has filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles Superior Court claiming sexual battery and infliction of emotional distress during an incident at the Playboy Mansion, according to court documents. The alleged sexual assault took place in 1974 when Huth was 15 years old. According to court documents, Huth and a 16-year-old friend met with Cosby and eventually went to the Playboy Mansion with him. "He then proceeded to sexually molest her by attempting to put his hand down her pants and then taking her hand in his hand and performing a sex act on himself without her consent," according to the documents. Cosby's lawyer said Huth's claims are "absolutely false" and he accused her of engaging in extortion after Cosby rejected her "outrageous demand for money in order not to make her allegations public." Hide Caption 14 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? P.J. Masten was a Playboy bunny in her 20s and met Cosby while working as a server at one of Playboy's establishments. He asked her to lunch one afternoon in Chicago, then later called to invite her to dinner, she told CNN. Before the dinner, attended by four other men at the Whitehall Hotel, Masten said, Cosby poured her a drink. "And the next thing I know, it was 4 o'clock in the morning," Masten said. "I woke up in a bed naked, bruised. He was lying next to me, and I slithered out of the bed, my clothes all over the floor. ... I got myself together, I went downstairs, I got in a cab and I went home." Masten recalled "hurting really bad." As to why, she alleged: "There were bruise marks all over me. I knew I was raped by him." Hide Caption 15 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? In a statement released through lawyer Gloria Allred's office, Helen Hayes alleged that Cosby followed her and two friends "around all day" at a summer 1973 celebrity tennis tournament in Pebble Beach, California, hosted by actor Clint Eastwood. Hayes claimed she and her friends tried to avoid Cosby, but he caught up with them in a restaurant, "approached me from behind and reached over my shoulder and grabbed my right breast." "I was stunned and angry, because he had no right to do that and I did not know why he would behave that way," Hayes said. "His behavior was like that of a predator." Hide Caption 16 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Louisa Moritz, seen here in a 1971 episode of "Love, American Style," told TMZ she was in the green room of the "The Tonight Show" at NBC in New York when Cosby paid her a visit. He offered to turn her into a "major star through his direction." Then he forced himself on her, she alleged. Hide Caption 17 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Donna Motsinger, 73, one of the Jane Does in the civil suit with Constand, said she met Cosby while working in a restaurant in Sausalito, California. According to Motsinger, Cosby invited her to join him for his show and she accepted. On the way, they stopped for gas and had a drink. After becoming ill, Motsinger said Cosby gave her what she thought was an aspirin. "After that there was some conversation and laughing and stuff, but then the next thing I remember ... he's next to me, he's got his hands on me and I look up I see the lights of the city. I could see it clear as a bell in my mind right now, the lights of the city coming back and it was all blurry, kind of the lights, and I passed out again," she said. Hide Caption 18 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Florida nurse Therese Serignese, 57, told ABC's "20/20" that she was a 19-year-old model visiting Las Vegas when Cosby handed her pills in a private dressing room after a performance. "Take these," Cosby told her, according to Serignese. After consuming the pills, she remembered "feeling drugged, and I was kind of leaning forward, and he was behind me having sex with me. And I -- I remember it because it was not good." Hide Caption 19 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Jewel Allison was a model and aspiring actress in her late 20s when she met Cosby in the late 1980s. She said he offered to help her, inviting her to his home. When she arrived, no one else was there besides Cosby, Allison said. At one point, after taking a few sips of wine, she began to feel "out of it." "I realized that something sexual was going on, but I was unable to stop it," Allison told CNN. Hide Caption 20 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Barbara Bowman was a 17-year-old model and actress who met Cosby in Denver in 1985. Bowman told Newsweek that Cosby visited her numerous times, giving her acting lessons and "flying me around to major cities to events." After she turned 18, Cosby "assaulted (me) a number of times," she said. In an incident in New York, Bowman "had one glass of wine and then I blacked out. I woke up throwing up in the toilet. ... I was wearing a white T-shirt that wasn't mine, and he was in a white robe." Hide Caption 21 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Lise-Lotte Lublin was a 23-year-old model in 1989 when, she alleges, Cosby gave her two shots of alcohol that caused her to black out in the Elvis suite of the Hilton Hotel in Las Vegas. Her next memory was waking up at home, unable to remember what happened in the interim, she says. Hide Caption 22 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Identifying herself only by a first name during a news conference with lawyer Gloria Allred, Chelan said she was a 17-year-old aspiring model who worked at the Las Vegas Hilton when her father's wife sent pictures of her to Cosby. She said Cosby arranged to meet her at the Vegas Hilton "to introduce me to someone from the Ford modeling agency." During that meeting, she said, Cosby gave her "a blue pill, which he said was an antihistamine, with a double shot of Amaretto." She alleged that Cosby lay down next to her on the bed and began touching her sexually and grunting. Hide Caption 23 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Helen Gumpel, a model and actress known as Helen Selby professionally, appeared in a bit part in a late-1980s "Cosby Show" episode. A short time later, her agent got a call that Cosby wanted to meet with her. In a statement, Gumpel said that, after Cosby hugged and kissed her in front of onlookers at a New York studio, she was asked back to his dressing room. There, she found Cosby "wearing a loosely tied robe" and then -- with the robe still on -- he put "his crotch area in my face," Gumpel alleged. The comedian touched her shoulders then tried repeatedly to get Gumpel to have a drink he'd made, she said. After her refusals, Gumpel said, "Cosby turned his back to me and walked to the door. Cosby looked at me and his face clouded up, as if he was frustrated and angry, and he told me to leave." Hide Caption 24 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Beth Ferrier told media outlets in 2005 that she met Cosby in Denver in the mid-'80s. He mentored her for a time, but one night, she said, he gave her a drugged cappuccino. "I woke up in my car in the parking lot with my clothes all a mess," she said. "I wondered, I still wonder, 'What did he do with me? Why was my bra unhooked?'" The two later conducted an "on-and-off consensual affair" that lasted several years, she alleged to People magazine. "He kept luring me in," Ferrier told the magazine. "I felt like I couldn't say no." At the time, Cosby's publicist told People he had no comment. Hide Caption 25 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Chloe Goins told the Los Angeles Police Department on January 14 that Cosby sexually assaulted her in 2008 during a party at the Playboy Mansion, when she was 18. Spencer Kuvin, Goins' attorney, said his client may be the first accuser to have a case that falls within the statute of limitations for bringing criminal charges. Cobsy's lawyer, Martin Singer, denied the accusation and said the comedian was not in California on August 8, 2008, the night of the "Midsummer Night's Party." Hide Caption 26 of 26U.S. District Judge Mark Mastroianni ruled that their suit can move ahead, opening the door for other accusers to come forward. The judge said it might be possible for the women to prove that Team Cosby knowingly made false statements as they tried to discredit his accusers.Earlier this week, a judge in Los Angeles refused to dismiss a lawsuit filed by Allred. The suit claims Cosby molested her client, then 15, at the Playboy Mansion in 1974 . Allred's client, Judy Huth, faces grilling by Cosby's lawyers next week.Huth's is the rare Cosby accuser's case to make it to court. In other cases, too much time has passed. But because she was 15 at the time, the statute of limitations was extended.Alllred had planned to keep Cosby in the hot seat for as long as seven hours."I think he understands that we will be asking him anything and everything that may bear on his credibility in reference to our client Judith Huth's allegations about what happened at the Playboy Mansion," Allred said before the deposition."He may try to escape. He's going to evade, but we're going to have a lot of questions," she said. "We are going to be persistent. We want the answers. We're entitled to get them."She had expected resistance from Cosby's team of high-powered lawyers, which includes Marty Singer, the "bulldog to the stars."In a 2005 sworn deposition in a different civil case, Cosby admitted to getting prescription Quaaludes to give to women he wanted to have sex with . The contents of that sealed deposition only recently came to light.There is a possibility that Cosby may have refused to answer some questions because he faces possible criminal charges in Los Angeles. That case involves a different woman; more than 40 have come forward to accuse Cosby of sexual improprieties, and Allred represents many of them.It's what makes her Gloria Allred. She's been at it for nearly 40 years. The Cosby case ain't her first rodeo.Her clients include starlets, personal assistants, nannies and other allegedly wronged women from all walks of life. To say Allred is well-known is an understatement. On her website, she calls herself "the most famous woman attorney practicing law in the nation today." That might be marketing hyperbole, but she's so engrained in the popular culture that she has been the subject of a "Saturday Night Live" skit.The skit used humor to underscore a simple truth. These words carry real weight: "Look out, Mister, I'm calling Gloria Allred."JUST WATCHED New Cosby accuser: I want to support the other victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New Cosby accuser: I want to support the other victims 03:51Allred often dresses all in red. But she has also been known to wear green, "the color of money," as a Los Angeles Times reporter once observed. She favors knits from St. John.Some, including Cosby's lawyers, consider Allred a shameless publicity hound. In the Cosby case, opposing attorney Singer sneered that Cosby's deposition was a "publicity stunt" and argued Huth's suit should be thrown out because she approached a tabloid and attempted to sell her story 10 years ago.Snickers often fill newsrooms and the law offices of rivals when Allred trots out clients such as Rachel Uchitel and Joslyn James -- who allegedly had affairs with golfer Tiger Woods -- for the cameras. Allred doesn't seem to care what her critics say.Her clients and their cases have changed the course of political campaigns and toppled the heads of major corporations.Allred has said she is not exploiting her clients, and if they have a story to tell it's better to get their version out than let the rumors fly. Unlike a lot of other lawyers, Allred is not afraid to go public, even if powerful people don't like what her clients have to say."A lot of my clients have not begun as celebrities," Allred told CNN in 2010. "They were typical people who were essentially women in crisis, sometimes because of the celebrity man. Because they were involved with a man who was a celebrity, they have become, in a sense, celebrity victims."Another prominent Allred target has been the exiled movie director Roman Polanski, who has admitted having sex with a 13-year-old girl in 1977. Authorities in Los Angeles were trying to extradite Polanski from Switzerland but ultimately were not successful. He had pleaded guilty to having sex with a minor but left the United States before he could be sentenced. He's been gone for nearly 40 years.At a news conference with Allred in May 2010, actress Charlotte Lewis alleged that five years after he left the United States, Polanski had his way with her, too, in France, when she was of tender years."If Charlotte's allegations are accepted as true," Allred said, "then Mr. Polanski was able to victimize another child while he was a fugitive from justice."Allred doesn't remember if she paid attention to the Polanski case when it happened. She had just graduated from Loyola Law School and was setting up her firm with fellow Loyola law grads Michael Maroko and Nathan Goldberg. The firm is still going strong, focusing on civil rights, employment discrimination and sexual harassment. The firm doesn't handle criminal cases, but does represent crime victims.Allred's life story, as laid out in the first chapter of her book, "Fight Back and Win," is reminiscent of that old Virginia Slims advertising slogan, "You've come a long way, baby."Gloria Rachel Bloom grew up in a working-class family in southwest Philadelphia. Neither parent got past the eighth grade. Her father was a Fuller Brush salesman. Her mother, who was born in Britain, stayed at home and raised her only child. She emphasized education.Allred got into the prestigious Philadelphia High School for Girls and won a partial scholarship to the University of Pennsylvania. She met a boy at a mixer, married him during her sophomore year and gave birth to her daughter, Lisa, during her junior year. By her senior year, the couple was divorcing and she was a single mother.JUST WATCHED Gloria Allred challenges Bill Cosby's attorney to debate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Gloria Allred challenges Bill Cosby's attorney to debate 03:02Despite her honors degree in English, Allred went to work as a buyer's assistant at Gimbels department store. She wondered why a man with the same job made $15 a week more than she did.She got a teaching job at Benjamin Franklin High School in Philadelphia, where most of her students were poor and black. A few years later, in 1966, recruiters from the Los Angeles school district came calling and Allred packed up her daughter and moved to L.A.That year, she says, while on vacation in Acapulco, Mexico, she was raped at gunpoint by a Mexican doctor, became pregnant and had an illegal abortion that nearly killed her. She did not report the rape, she said, because she didn't think anyone would believe her.She taught in the Watts neighborhood of L.A. and became involved in labor issues, and decided a law degree would help with her activism. After law school, she served as president of the Los Angeles chapter of the National Organization for Women. She pressed then-Gov. Jerry Brown to appoint more women as judges, and she began to take on women's cases.One of Allred's most famous cases involved a lawsuit on behalf of an actress on the original "Melrose Place," who claimed she was wrongfully fired and discriminated against when she became pregnant. Lawyers for Aaron Spelling's production company said Hunter Tylo broke her contract by making a "material change" to her appearance.Jurors viewed charts that producers kept of Tylo's projected weight gain showing she would weigh 144 pounds when it was time to shoot a key bikini scene. Jurors also saw scenes in which star Heather Locklear's baby bump was hidden behind furniture and leopard print sheets. Tylo revealed from the witness stand that she was eight months pregnant. She did not look it, and jurors awarded her nearly $5 million in damages.Allred's targets: "I go after these guys who have hurt women."