(CNN) Former NBA star Lamar Odom is breathing on his own and told his estranged wife, Khloe Kardashian, "I love you," according to his former coach Jim Harrick.Harrick, who coached Odom in college, appeared Monday on CNN's "New Day." He said that the 35-year-old athlete has made "a little bit of progress."Odom was hospitalized last Tuesday after he was found unconscious at the Love Ranch, a brothel in Nevada where he had been holed up for several days.Kris Jenner, left, and Kim Kardashian leave Sunrise Hospital & Medical Center in Las Vegas where Odom was being treated on Wednesday, October 14.Kris Jenner, left, and Kim Kardashian leave Sunrise Hospital & Medical Center in Las Vegas where Odom was being treated on Wednesday, October 14.From left, Rob Kardashian, Odom, Khloe Kardashian, Kourtney Kardashian and Kim Kardashian pose for photographers during an event in Los Angeles in April 2011. Odom was married to Khloe, and he was featured in the reality show "Keeping Up With the Kardashians" as well as the couple's own reality show, "Khloe & Lamar," which lasted two seasons.From left, Rob Kardashian, Odom, Khloe Kardashian, Kourtney Kardashian and Kim Kardashian pose for photographers during an event in Los Angeles in April 2011. Odom was married to Khloe, and he was featured in the reality show "Keeping Up With the Kardashians" as well as the couple's own reality show, "Khloe & Lamar," which lasted two seasons.Odom receives the Sixth Man of the Year Award from Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak in April 2011. The award honors the NBA's best player in a reserve role.Odom receives the Sixth Man of the Year Award from Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak in April 2011. The award honors the NBA's best player in a reserve role.Chauncey Billups, left, and Odom hold a trophy after the U.S. team won at the 2010 World Championships.Chauncey Billups, left, and Odom hold a trophy after the U.S. team won at the 2010 World Championships.Odom hoists the Larry O'Brien Trophy while riding in the Lakers' victory parade in June 2010. The Lakers defeated the Boston Celtics for a second straight championship.Odom hoists the Larry O'Brien Trophy while riding in the Lakers' victory parade in June 2010. The Lakers defeated the Boston Celtics for a second straight championship.Odom sits next to the Larry O'Brien Trophy during the Lakers' flight back to Los Angeles in June 2009. The Lakers defeated the Orlando Magic for the NBA championship.Odom sits next to the Larry O'Brien Trophy during the Lakers' flight back to Los Angeles in June 2009. The Lakers defeated the Orlando Magic for the NBA championship.Odom shakes hands with NBA Commissioner David Stern during the 1999 NBA Draft. Odom was drafted by the Los Angeles Clippers.Odom shakes hands with NBA Commissioner David Stern during the 1999 NBA Draft. Odom was drafted by the Los Angeles Clippers.Lamar Odom dribbles the ball during an NBA game against the Denver Nuggets in November 2010. Odom, who won two championships during his career and later married reality TV star Khloe Kardashian, was hospitalized Tuesday, October 13, after he was found unconscious at a brothel in Nevada. On October 19, Odom was transferred to a Los Angeles hospital where he is reportedly breathing on his own.Lamar Odom dribbles the ball during an NBA game against the Denver Nuggets in November 2010. Odom, who won two championships during his career and later married reality TV star Khloe Kardashian, was hospitalized Tuesday, October 13, after he was found unconscious at a brothel in Nevada. On October 19, Odom was transferred to a Los Angeles hospital where he is reportedly breathing on his own.Indications are that he is getting closer to leaving Las Vegas to continue his recovery in Los Angeles, according to sources close to Odom.Little is known about what left him unresponsive at the brothel . Love Ranch owner Dennis Hof recently told CNN that Odom was "in a good frame of mind" when he was taken to the brothel, and that he ate and slept well there."He picked a couple of girls, and he had the time of his life," Hof said.In three days at the brothel, Odom spent $75,000, which guaranteed two women would "take care of any of his needs," Hof told CNN's sister network HLN.Employees told 911 dispatchers that Odom used cocaine on Saturday -- his first day at the brothel -- though Hof insisted Saturday that any drug use happened when Odom was partying early that morning in Las Vegas but before he'd arrived at the Love Ranch."I'm going to protect my business, and I'm not going to let the world say that Lamar was doing a lot of drugs in my place," he told CNN's Michael Smerconish, insisting his brothel has "zero tolerance" for illicit drugs. "Because it makes him look bad, and he wasn't doing that."A woman said she also saw Odom take 10 herbal supplement tablets over three days.The brothel's employees said when they found him, Odom was lying in bed on his side with a pinkish fluid coming from his mouth and nose.'More hopeful now'Late last week, Odom woke up and spoke for the first time , saying "Hi" to Kardashian, who had rushed to his bedside.Harrick said that he's been in touch with her every day. Odom spoke to her Monday, the coach said, telling her "Good morning!" before going back to sleep."We're more hopeful now" that Odom will recover, Harrick said. "We've been on pins and needles for days."Odom's maternal aunt, JaNean Mercer, also commented on Monday. She released a written statement which said, "Lamar has always been blessed with a tenacious, fighting spirit, overcoming insurmountable obstacles to achieve the impossible. These past few days have been no different."He is "defying the odds in his toughest battle to date" with "God's grace," she said.She added, "We are committed to remaining by his side as a family for our champion, who we love immensely."Kardashian a 'rock'Harrick was at Kardashian and Odom's 2009 wedding. They filed for divorce four years later, citing irreconcilable differences.Photos: The Kardashian clan Photos: The Kardashian clan Khloe Kardashian and boyfriend Tristan Thompson were the subject of reports in April that Thompson had been spending time with other women during her pregnancy. Let's "katch" up with the rest of her famous family. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan The most famous of the Kardashian clan is undoubtedly Kim Kardashian West, who has gained publicity for everything from " breaking the Internet " to bleaching her hair blonde to ... well, pretty much everything she does gains publicity. At the least, she can usually be seen with her family on the E! series "Keeping Up With the Kardashians." The middle Kardashian daughter is married to rap star Kanye West and has a daughter, North, born in 2013. She gave birth to a son, Saint, in 2015 and in January 2018 daughter Chicago was born via surrogate. Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan Kourtney Kardashian is the oldest of the four Kardashian siblings. She works with her sisters in the fashion business. She and Scott Disick were together from 2006 to 2015 and have three children. Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan Khloé Kardashian is the youngest of the Kardashian daughters and along with Khloe has starred in some spinoffs of their family's famous reality show. She had been married to former NBA star Lamar Odom but filed for divorce from him for the second time in May 2016. She previously filed in 2013, but put the divorce on hold when he was found unconscious in a Nevada brothel. The pair settled their divorce in December 2016. A year later she confirmed she was expecting her first child with her NBA player boyfriend Tristan Thompson. Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan Rob Kardashian has been on "Keeping Up With the Kardashians" but has been uncomfortable in the spotlight his sisters love so much. He dated pop star Adrienne Bailon for a time and performed on season 13 of "Dancing With the Stars" but has generally kept a low profile (for a Kardashian, anyway). He was involved with model and personality Blac Chyna and their show "Rob & Chyna" followed the couple's tumultuous relationship and the arrival of their daughter, Dream. The couple split and in July 2017 Chyna was granted a temporary restraining order after he posted personal info about her on social media. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan Kylie Jenner, the youngest of the clan, has also made her mark with modeling and social media. In 2015, she made headlines with a relationship with rapper Tyga. In February 2018 she gave birth to her first child, a daughter she and boyfriend rapper Travis Scott named Stormi. Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan In March 2018, Kendall Jenner answered rumors that she is gay in an interview with Vogue. Fans have watched the model grow up on "Keeping Up With the Kardashians," and she has made the most of the opportunity, hosting awards shows, endorsing products and walking high fashion runways. Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan Kris Jenner, the matriarch of the family, was married to Los Angeles lawyer Robert Kardashian until 1991 and then married Olympian Bruce Jenner a month after the divorce. She's hosted a talk show, "Kris," and been a regular presence on "Keeping Up." She split from Bruce in September 2014; he later transitioned to Caitlyn Jenner. Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan Caitlyn Jenner shot to fame as the winner of the 1976 Olympic men's decathlon, becoming "the world's greatest athlete." An occasional actor and longtime broadcaster, he married Kris, his third wife, in 1991. The pair have two children together, Kendall and Kylie. In 2015, she announced that she was transgender. Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan Brandon Jenner, Bruce Jenner's son by his second wife, Linda Thompson, had a reality show even before the rest of the family: 2005's "The Princes of Malibu" with his brother, Brody. Brandon is now in a music duo with his wife, Leah Felder, the daughter of Eagles guitarist Don Felder. Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan Brody Jenner has practically grown up in front of the cameras. Before "Keeping Up With the Kardashians," he was in "The Princes of Malibu" with brother Brandon, "The Hills" on MTV and "Bromance," a "Hills" spinoff. He's the younger son of Bruce Jenner and Linda Thompson. Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan The family patriarch was Robert Kardashian, a Los Angeles attorney who first became famous to the rest of the country as one of O.J. Simpson's best friends, the man who hosted Simpson after the 1994 murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman. Kardashian, who's the father of Kim, Khloe, Kourtney and Rob, married Kris in 1978 and divorced her 13 years later. Robert Kardashian died in 2003. Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan Hip-hop star Kanye West was taken into the family orbit after he started seeing Kim Kardashian in 2012. The couple had a daughter, North, the next year and married in May 2014. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan Scott Disick had been with Kourtney Kardashian since 2006. The two have three children. Disick has struggled in the glare of the Kardashian spotlight, admitting to anger issues and getting into tiffs with other members of the family. The couple eventually split amid rumors that he cheated. Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan Odom married Khloe in 2009, but despite getting a reality series of their own -- "Khloe & Lamar" -- the marriage struggled. Khloe filed for divorce in 2013. Odom, who won the NBA Sixth Man of the Year award in 2011, was waived by the New York Knicks in 2014 after a 15-year professional career. Hide Caption 15 of 16 Photos: The Kardashian clan Khloe Kardashian and Cleveland Cavaliers basketball player Tristan Thompson went public with their relationship in September 2016. The pair weathered some criticism early on as Thompson's ex-girlfriend, Jordan Craig, was pregnant with their child at the time. Hide Caption 16 of 16Harrick got to know Kardashian."I just come to fall in love with her," he said. "She's a sweet, loving, lovely young girl. I think she's a rock. She's the best thing that ever happened (to Odom)."Harrick said he wanted to "go over there" and "smack him" to let him know how incredible she is.Odom needs to "get on the right path again," his ex-coach said.Harrick praised Odom, who won two NBA championships as a forward for the Los Angeles Lakers.The Los Angeles Clippers drafted him in 1999, and he played for the team for four seasons before signing with the Miami Heat.After one season in Miami, he was traded to the Lakers, and became a key part of their championship teams in 2009 and 2010.He also played briefly for the Dallas Mavericks before returning to the Clippers for one season."He might be one of the most popular guys who ever played in the NBA," Harrick said.Trouble off the courtOdom was famous in the basketball world but became a staple in pop culture when he began appearing on "Keeping Up with the Kardashians." The couple also had their own reality show, "Khloe & Lamar," which aired for two seasons and 20 episodes.Two years ago Odom was charged with drunk driving . He pleaded no contest and received three years' probation.Harrick believes the episode at the brothel is a "turning point" for Odom.The athlete has a strong support system, Harrick said, and "prayers from everybody."