(CNN) Two U.S. astronauts have completed a seven-hour hour spacewalk to carry out maintenance on the International Space Station, 250 miles above Earth .Expedition 45 commander Scott Kelly and flight engineer Kjell Lindgren returned to the space station's airlock where repressurization began about 3:19 p.m ET, marking the official end of the spacewalk, NASA said in a live broadcast of the eventThe spacewalk took seven hours and 16 minutes, about 45 minutes longer than NASA had predicted.The astronauts were tasked with "station upgrades and maintenance tasks, including installing a thermal cover on the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer , which is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that has been attached to the station since 2011," the space agency said.The thermal cover was successfully fitted about 2½ hours into the spacewalk.It was the first spacewalk for both astronauts..@Astro_Kjell is seen inside the airlock from the helmet cam of @StationCDRKelly as they wrap up #spacewalk. pic.twitter.com/wMonK1LYaT — Intl. Space Station (@Space_Station) October 28, 2015The astronauts will carry out a second spacewalk November 6, two days after the 15-year anniversary of continuous human presence aboard the space station.An international crew of six people live in the station, which orbits Earth every 90 minutes.In a tweet, NASA astronaut Douglas H. Wheelock explained that the frequent orbits meant half of Wednesday's spacewalk took place in darkness, with a sunrise or sunset every 45 minutes.We orbit the Earth every 90 minutes, with a sunrise or sunset every 45 minutes. 16 sunrises & 16 sunsets every day. @FameScientist #askNASA — Douglas H. Wheelock (@Astro_Wheels) October 28, 2015342 days in spaceKelly arrived at the station in May. He plans to spend 342 days there -- the longest stretch in space for any U.S. astronaut.Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The crew of the space shuttle Atlantis took this picture of the International Space Station after leaving it in July 2011. Atlantis was the last shuttle to visit the station, which was first launched in 1998 and built by a partnership of 16 nations. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The crew of the space shuttle Endeavour initiates the station's first assembly sequence in 1998. The International Space Station includes several large modules, each launched separately and connected in space by astronauts. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The Zarya control module, on the left with the solar panels, floats above Earth with its newly attached Unity module after the first assembly sequence in December 1998. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The first crew of the International Space Station, seen on board in December 2000. From the left are cosmonaut Yuri P. Gidzenko, astronaut William M. Shepherd and cosmonaut Sergei K. Krikalev. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The Endeavour crew installs the first set of U.S. solar arrays on the station in 2000. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station In March 2001, a space shuttle delivered the station's second crew and brought the first one home. It also brought Leonardo, the station's first Multi-Purpose Logistics Module, to the station. Leonardo carried supplies and equipment. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station In September 2006, the space shuttle Atlantis docked with the space station, delivering solar wings and a new truss. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The space shuttle Discovery leaves the space station in March 2008 after its crew successfully delivered and installed the Japanese-built Kibo lab. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station The unmanned SpaceX Dragon spacecraft connects to the space station in May 2012. It was the first private spacecraft to successfully reach an orbiting space station. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station An unmanned Russian cargo craft disconnects from the space station in April 2013. The station relies heavily on ships to bring up supplies. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station Commander Koichi Wakata of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency peers out of the space station's Cupola observatory on April 27. The Cupola is a dome-shaped module that allows station crew members to observe and guide activities outside the station. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station A Russian Soyuz spacecraft is docked with the space station on May 5. Since the U.S. shuttle program ended in 2011, all crew members are ferried to and from the space station on Russian rockets. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Notable moments of the International Space Station A Soyuz spacecraft is seen on May 13 as it lands in Kazakhstan with Wakata and other members of the his Expedition 39 crew. Hide Caption 13 of 13Kelly's mission will allow scientists to study how the human body responds to long-duration space flights. On Earth, scientists will perform parallel studies on Kelly's identical twin brother, retired astronaut Mark Kelly.