Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Passing the baton. Grabbing the spotlight. Dropping the charges. It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Democratic conventionOperation Make Hillary Likable -- otherwise known as the DNC -- brought out the big guns last night. President Obama was in full "Hope and Change" mode, dismissing Donald Trump's dark view of the world while pumping up Hillary Clinton's credentials. Veep Joe Biden was in full attack mode and said the magic words -- malarkey! -- in describing Trump's commitment to the middle class. Now the job of making Clinton more likable falls to, well, Clinton herself. She'll make her case tonight.Here are the six takeaways from the night.Here's where we find out if all the claims add up2. Donald TrumpDid you seriously think Donald Trump was just going to sit back and let the Dems have all the fun -- and attention -- this week? The GOP nominee snatched back some of the spotlight yesterday in a wild, freewheeling news conference where he asked Russian hackers to dig up dirt on Hillary Clinton , told a female reporter to "be quiet," called Anthony Weiner a "pervert" and couldn't remember if Democratic veep nominee Tim Kaine was once the governor of Virginia or New Jersey. In other words: Classic Trump!3. Freddie Gray4. John Hinckley Jr.The man who tried to kill President Reagan will soon be free. John Hinckley Jr. was granted "full-time convalescent leave" yesterday from the mental hospital he was put in after shooting Reagan in 1981. The 61-year-old will live in Williamsburg with family and with restrictions. One of Reagan's sons suggested it's time to forgive Hinckley; the Reagan Presidential Foundation wasn't having any of that: "We believe John Hinckley is still a threat to others and we strongly oppose his release."5. MH370The home flight simulator of the pilot of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 had a route plotted into it which ended in the Indian Ocean . Officials confirmed that yesterday, but they're mum on who may have plotted the route. Capt. Zaharie Ahmad Shah had used the home simulator for years. Does this prove that Zaharie intentionally downed the plane back in March 2014 in the southern Indian Ocean? No, said officials. It only shows "the possibility of planning." Zaharie's sister says he being made a scapegoat for the air disaster.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.No so secretDonald Trump's new Secret Service code name is "Mogul. " But what's the point in having code names when everyone knows what the person is?Hot spotJupiter's Great Red Spot is a hot spot too. Scientists think its temperatures reach up to 2,420 degrees Fahrenheit . That's hotter than molten lava!Concrete cribReady to jump into the London housing market? Then check out this converted bomb shelter , with an asking price of only $3.4 million.Eye on the skyOK, stargazers: the season's first big meteor shower peaks tonight and tomorrow night. Here's where you should point your eyes and cameras.Ch-ch-changesA female president? That's an idea that was once so radical it got this T-shirt pulled from Walmart shelves . My how things change.Number of the day$478 millionThat's the current Powerball jackpot , fifth-largest in its history. So if you're depending on a lottery prize as part of your retirement planning, the next drawing is on Saturday night.AND FINALLY ...WipeoutLarge tubes dropped on the highway and motorcycles don't mix. This mishap looks really bad, but thankfully the motorcyclist was OK.