Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Picking up the pieces and looking for some peace. It's Monday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Police killingsMeanwhile, protests raged over the deaths of two black men by police. Hundreds have been arrested in the nationwide demonstrations, some of which turned violent.2. South SudanThe world's youngest country is on the verge of slipping back into civil war. And no one seems able to stop it. Government and opposition forces are clashing thanks to a rift between the President and the VP, leaving hundreds dead in the capital, Juba. The U.S. embassy is evacuating non-emergency staff. Civilians are fleeing a U.N. mission, where they thought they'd be safe. The U.N. Security Council expressed "shock and outrage," but hasn't done much else. South Sudan turned 5 this weekend.3. Campaign 2016Psst, hey, Never Trump folks. This week's your last chance to derail The Donald's train. GOP bigwigs are meeting in Cleveland ahead of next week's convention. So this is the final opportunity to change party delegate rules that could block Donald Trump from the nomination. Even if it works, the results probably wouldn't be pretty. Chicago 1968, anyone ? Meanwhile, on the Dems side, Bernie Sanders is finally expected to endorse Hillary Clinton4. Japan electionsIs Japan about to abandon its pacifist ways? It may take a serious look at it, now that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's ruling coalition has won a supermajority of seats in the country's elections. Japan's had tough restrictions on its military since the end of World War II. Abe may pursue changing the constitution to allow the military to wage war. That'll be a first in 70 years.5. Euro 2016Things just looked grim for Portugal: Playing the host team in its home turf. Playing a team it had lost to 10 straight times. Oh, and playing without Ronaldo. But, hey, no problem for the boys in red, who shocked France 1-0 to win Euro 2016 for the first time. Cristiano Ronaldo limped off the pitch in the first half with a knee injury, but heroic goalkeeping put the game into extra time, where substitute Eder fired off the winning shot.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.The rich get poorer (?)Yes, the 1% has bounced back from the Great Recession better than the rest of us, but they're still earning less than they did a decade ago . Cue the tears.A numbers gameToday's World Population Day! Wondering what's the best way to celebrate? Take this quiz , of course.Next-level livingWho needs land? The Floating Seahorse villas in Dubai let you live both on and under the water.Like Christmas (shopping) in JulyTomorrow's Prime Day at Amazon , one of the year's biggest online shopping days. Beats the heck out of battling the stampeding hordes at a big box retailer.Move over, TatooineThought Luke Skywalker's home planet, which orbits two suns in "Star Wars," was impressive? Scientists found a planet that orbits three sunsNumber of the day1 minuteThe length of Lin-Manuel Miranda's standing ovation when he stepped on stage for his final performance in "Hamilton" this weekend.AND FINALLY ...Dancing foolAfter what we all went through last week, watching a hairless dog dancing like a drunken sailor is exactly what we need.