(CNN) At a protest against police violence in Dallas, a young man wanders the streets with a gun casually slung over his shoulder.The hefty weapon hangs all the way from his hip to his ankle, apparently barely raising the eyebrows of passersby.A few hours after the Dallas shooting, local police posted a photo of the man on Twitter, saying: "This is one of our suspects. Please help us find him!"The original tweet remains online -- long after he man, named Mark Hughes, told Dallas station KVTV he was interrogated by police and released without apology.The sight of someone walking through a packed protest toting a large gun would be cause for alarm for many people around the world, but in Texas, it's not so far-fetched.Over 1 million gun carriersOf the 27.5 million people who live in this southern U.S. state, more than 1 million people are licensed to carry a handgun.Dallas County has 57,620 licensees -- the third highest number in the state, following Harris (139,563) and Tarrant (71,504) counties.A "handgun" is defined as "any firearm that is designed, made, or adapted to be fired with one hand."While Texans are required to have a permit to carry a handgun, they do not need one for rifles or shotguns -- which may help explain the man at Thursday's protest brazenly toting a long weapon.Texas is one of 45 states that allow some form of open carry. Only five states -- New York, Florida, Illinois, South Carolina and California -- and the District of Columbia ban open carry.Who can carry a handgun?In Texas, successful applicants must be at least 21, have lived in the state for six months, have a clean criminal record, be free of psychiatric disorders and have completed a four- to six-hour training course.Licenses cost $140.Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Police respond after shots were fired in downtown Dallas on Thursday, July 7. Five police officers were fatally shot during a protest over recent police shootings in Louisiana and Minnesota. Seven other officers were injured in the ambush, as were two civilians. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Emergency responders administer CPR to an unknown patient near the receiving area of the Baylor University Medical Center. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest A police officer with Dallas Area Rapid Transit is comforted at the emergency room entrance of the hospital. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest A police helicopter flies over the scene in downtown Dallas. One suspect was killed by police after a standoff that lasted for hours. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest A man raises his hands as he walks near a law enforcement officer in Dallas. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Protesters gather as police officers arrest someone in the aftermath of the shootings. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest A Dallas police officer takes a moment as she guards an intersection in the early morning hours. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Dallas police respond to the scene of the shootings. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Police officers shield bystanders after shots were fired at the protest. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Police officers take cover as shots are fired. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Police get in position after gunshots rang out. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Two officers crouch behind barriers. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Dallas police order people away from the area after the shootings. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Police and others gather at the emergency entrance to the Baylor University Medical Center. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Police stop a driver in downtown Dallas. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest A view of downtown Dallas after the shootings. Kent Giles captured the image and told CNN he "heard multiple shots being fired. Probably more than 20 rounds. This is the intersection of Main and Griffin looking towards the west." Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Dallas police check a car after detaining a driver. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Dallas police stand watch after the shootings. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Onlookers stand near police barricades after the shootings. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Police attempt to calm the crowd after an arrest. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest A clerk looks at broken windows that were shot out at a store in downtown Dallas. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Officers shot during Dallas protest Law enforcement officials wait outside the emergency room entrance of the Baylor University Medical Center. Hide Caption 22 of 22Where can they carry?But the laws are changing...In 2015, the Republican-led Texas Legislature voted to allow guns within buildings on public college campuses throughout the state.The new law will go into effect 50 years to the day that engineering student Charles Whitman went on a shooting spree at the University of Texas, killing 16 people.Under the new legislation, Texan universities will be able to create gun-free zones, but those zones cannot include classrooms.