Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A divided court. A defiant president. A deadly attack. It's primary Tuesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.1. Campaign 20162. ImmigrationAfter legacy-changing decisions on Obamacare and gay marriage, the White House and the Supremes got together for another dance: immigration. That old, familiar conservative/liberal divide developed as the court tussled over whether the President can use an executive order to shield four million undocumented immigrants from deportation. If the Supremes deadlock 4-4 on this one (without Scalia around), the case is kicked back to the Texas district court, which blocked the program in the first place.3. BrazilImpeachment or coup? If you ask Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff, they're one and the same. She's accused of borrowing from state banks to cover a shortfall in Brazil's deficit (a no-no). Rousseff was defiant yesterday, calling the impeachment effort against her unjust and predicting eventual vindication. She compared it to the torture she endured during Brazil's military dictatorship, saying that "I am having my dreams tortured now."JUST WATCHED Brazilian President Rousseff vows to fight impeachment Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Brazilian President Rousseff vows to fight impeachment 02:164. Houston floodsWill things be better today in Houston, after days of extreme flooding ? Sadly, no. The rain-soaked city will labor under a flash flood watch through the morning and thunderstorms all day. At least 5 people have been killed in what's been called the worst flooding there -- 240 BILLION gallons of rain -- since a tropical storm rammed through in 2001. Tens of thousands don't have power; scores had to be evacuated from homes and vehicles.JUST WATCHED Death toll rising after Houston flooding Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Death toll rising after Houston flooding 02:355. Kabul attackThe Taliban still packs a pretty big punch in Afghanistan, as evidenced by its attack in Kabul this morning . At least 28 people were killed and more than 300 were injured when a suicide bomb attack rocked the city. The Taliban were quick to claim responsibility for the incident, which targeted the office of a security team that protects government VIPs.JUST WATCHED Loud blast near U.S. Embassy in Afghanistan Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Loud blast near U.S. Embassy in Afghanistan 01:53BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:'YouTube, they're the devil'This must be for those other statesUtah's governor signs a pair of anti-porn bills today. Ironic, considering a 2009 study found Utah's residents were the biggest purchasers of porn in the U.S.Everybody loved her tooDoris Roberts, the overbearing mom Marie on "Everybody Loves Raymond," was a TV staple for decades. She died yesterday at age 90Double troubleThe Internet's losing its ever-lovin' mind over Mara Teigen, friend of Kylie Jenner and dead ringer for Angelina Jolie . (Mara's on the left)Air headsSomebody put a bag of air from Kobe Bryant's last game up for sale on eBay. Don't laugh, bids were up to $15,000 before it was pulled.Dino deathStill sad over the dinosaurs getting wiped out by that massive meteorite? Don't be. Scientists thinks the dinos were on their way out anyway.AND FINALLY ...Blaming BatmanLipstick on mom's mirror? Saying the 'devil made me do it' is so yesterday. Today's quick-thinking 2-year-olds blame the Batman.