For more stories, video and live game feeds from the NCAA men's basketball semifinals and finals go to cnn.com/marchmadness .Houston (CNN) This was supposed to be nothing but a joyous homecoming for Oklahoma sophomore forward Khadeem Lattin.The NCAA men's Final Four is in Houston, his home city. It has also been 50 years since his grandfather, David Lattin, was part of the historic Texas Western team that famously defeated Kentucky for the 1966 national championship.This weekend for Khadeem Lattin could have been perfect, but then the news came.On Wednesday, Lattin's grandmother, Brenda Fair, died after a battle with lung cancer, just hours after Lattin's arrival in Houston with his Sooners' teammates ahead of the Final Four.Lattin tweeted that an angel had gone home that night and that he wished he could have played in front of her.I wish I could've played in front of you just once and just for a lil bitDespite the loss, Lattin has remained with his teammates."I was sad, and I did not sleep a lot, but you now have got to win for grandma," Lattin said.Following his grandfather's footstepsThere's something idyllic about Lattin's trip to the Final Four coinciding with his home city and with his grandfather's historic past.For more ... For more stories, video and live game feeds from the men's semifinals and finals go to cnn.com/marchmadnessDavid Lattin was the starting center for Texas Western, which is now known as the University of Texas at El Paso. Back when he played, the NCAA tournament wasn't March Madness. Then, there were just 22 teams in the field, unlike the 68 today.And back then, no team with an all-black starting lineup had won a national championship.Until 1966.Texas Western's David Lattin, behind Kentucky's Thad Jaracz, goes up for a rebound on his team's way to winning the 1966 NCAA men's baksetball championship. Texas Western started five black players, the first time in tournament's history.The civil rights movement was in motion. However, it was still commonplace to see segregation, especially in the South, within men's college basketball.In 1966, Texas Western became the first team to start five black players in NCAA championship history. And when they won against an all-white Kentucky lineup 72-65, the symbolism wasn't lost, even in the South. All-white leagues such as the Atlantic Coast Conference, Southeastern Conference and Southwestern Conference were integrated within the next two years. The story of the Texas Western championship team also was the inspiration for the 2006 movie "Glory Road."David Lattin had 16 points, second-highest on the team, and nine rebounds in the win, a game his grandson has watched."It is awesome to see such an impactful moment and people realize how impactful it was," Khadeem said.Now, with Khadeem, who has started every game for the Sooners this season, averaging 5.7 points, 5.3 rebounds and 2.1 blocked shots, family history has the chance to repeat itself 50 years later."It is kind of poetic that it happened 50 years apart exactly, and I want to win it," Khadeem said. "Hopefully me and my grandfather can be in a select club."'She is going to watch out for me'The death of his grandmother has added to Lattin's motivation to win. The sophomore was able to visit with her a couple of weeks ago."He had that opportunity, but it still doesn't make it any easier because it's tough," Oklahoma head coach Lon Kruger said.Said Lattin, "It is just one of those things you just have to compartmentalize and just focus. I'm just going to pray and know she is going to watch out for me."RIP grandma Brenda please watch over and protect us — big juice (@khadeemlattin) March 31, 2016Kruger said there's no doubt that for Oklahoma to defeat Villanova and have any chance to advance to Monday's national championship game he'll need a big game from Lattin.Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2016: No. 10 Syracuse – Despite going 1-5 in its final six games before the NCAA tournament, No. 10 seed Syracuse reached this year's Final Four with a 68-62 win against No. 1 Virginia. With 13 losses this season and in danger of missing the tournament altogether as a bubble team, the Orange join a group of other improbable Final Four teams in this year's college basketball tournament. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 1983: No. 6 NC State – NC State basically had to win the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament to ensure a bid at the 1983 men's NCAA tournament, in which the Wolfpack was given a No. 6 seed. From there, NC State, coached by the late Jim Valvano, got a historic upset against a Ralph-Sampson-led No. 1 Virginia team to reach the Final Four and went on to win the national title 54-52 over No. 1 Houston with a buzzer-beating dunk by Lorenzo Charles. The everlasting image seared in fans' minds is Valvano running around trying to find someone to hug. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 1985: No. 8 Villanova – In the first year that the NCAA tournament expanded to 64 teams, No. 8 seed Villanova, led by Most Outstanding Player Ed Pinckney (center), emerged as the unlikely champion, defeating No. 1 Georgetown 66-64 in the title game, one of the biggest upsets in U.S. sports history. The Wildcats reached the Final Four with a win against No. 2 North Carolina and then defeated No. 2 Memphis to reach the national championship game. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 1986: No. 11 LSU – LSU, led by head coach Dale Brown, became the first 11 seed to reach the Final Four with a 59-57 win against No. 1 Kentucky. The Tigers lost in the national semifinals to the eventual champion, No. 2 Louisville. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 1988: No. 6 Kansas – Kansas is seen as a perennial powerhouse these days, but back in 1988, the No. 6 Jayhawks, led by Danny Manning (center), had lost 11 games and weren't ranked entering the NCAA tournament. The team, nicknamed "Danny and the Miracles," defeated No. 4 Kansas State to reach the Final Four and then went on to beat No. 2 Duke and then No. 1 Oklahoma to win the title. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2000: No. 8 Wisconsin – While neither team reached the championship game, No. 8 North Carolina and No. 8 Wisconsin still surprised many by advancing to the Final Four in Indianapolis. Mark Vershaw and Mike Kelley celebrated on the court after Wisconsin beat No. 6 Purdue 64-60 at the West Regional Championship at The Pit in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2000: No. 8 North Carolina – Kris Lang waved to the crowd after he cut a piece of the net after UNC defeated Tulsa 59-55 at the NCAA South Regional at the Frank Erwin Center in Austin, Texas. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2006: No. 11 George Mason – This is a Cinderella story for the ages. No. 11 George Mason, a mid-major program in the Colonial Athletic Association, earned an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament, receiving criticism from TV analyst Billy Packer. George Mason became the first CAA team to reach the Final Four with an 86-84 overtime win against No.1 UConn. Seen here, Will Thomas celebrated after scoring a basket in that game; Thomas finished with 19 points. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2010: No. 5 Butler – Cinderella almost pulled off the unthinkable. No. 5 Butler, from the mid-major Horizon League, reached the Final Four with a win against No. 2 Kansas State. The Bulldogs then defeated No. 5 Michigan State to advance to the national championship game. In the final against No. 1 Duke, Butler came up agonizingly short, as Gordon Hayward threw a prayer from half court at the buzzer. The ball almost went in, bouncing off the backboard and then the rim, and Duke escaped, 61-59. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2011: No. 11 VCU – No. 11 Virginia Commonwealth University, led by second-year head coach Shaka Smart, became the first team to advance to the Final Four who started the tournament in The First Four, the opening round in which four teams advanced to the round of 64. To get there, VCU took down No. 1 Kansas, 71-61. VCU went on to lose to last season's Cinderella, No. 8 Butler, in the Final Four. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: The most improbable Final Four teams in men's basketball history 2014: No. 7 UConn – In 2013, UConn was academically ineligible for the postseason. In 2014, No. 7 UConn defeated No. 8 Kentucky 60-54 in the national championship game. It was the highest combined seeding (No. 7 vs. No. 8) in championship game history. Additionally, UConn, led by Shabazz Napier, was the first 7 seed to reach and win the title game. Hide Caption 11 of 11"When we've played our best, Khadeem has been a big factor blocking shots, right-handing the ball, defensively in the low post," Kruger said. "He's been very active here of late."And even though she's gone, Lattin knows he still has a fan in his grandmother."She's a spirit now and has my back no matter what," Lattin said.