Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A shaken nation. An impeached President. A free man. It's Monday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Ecuador earthquakeIt's been two days since a massive 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck coastal Ecuador. The Saturday quake killed more than 270, and the country's President said the number will surely rise . People are clawing through rubble with their bare hands looking for trapped family members in the debris. Others are sleeping in the streets, terrified to go back into their homes.2. Brazil politicsBrazil's on the world stage -- but for all the wrong reasons. The Summer Olympics were supposed to showcase the country as a rising power. Instead, the impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff exposes a country in crisis. Rousseff's case now heads to the Senate. If the impeachment motion carries there, she'll have to step down 180 days to defend herself in an impeachment trial. Just in time for the Games. Talk about terrible timing!3. Jack McColloughThree years ago, CNN's Ann O'Neill's digital series "Taken" raised questions about whether Jack McCollough's trial in the death of 7-year-old Maria Ridulph was unfairly one-sided. Well, McCollough is now free. A judge has thrown out his conviction. It's always heartening when journalism makes a difference. The whole case is worth a read4. Campaign 2016Here's what happened over the weekend:-- Oh, a North Korean official called a Trump idea "absurd and illogical." Pot, meet kettle.JUST WATCHED Hillary Clinton dances on stage with NY officials Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hillary Clinton dances on stage with NY officials 00:475. 9/11If Congress passes a bill letting families of 9/11 victims sue foreign governments, Saudi Arabia says it'll sell off billions in U.S. assets . The kingdom's never been formally implicated in the attacks. But 15 of the 19 hijackers were Saudis. And the so-called 20th has accused members of the royal family of supporting al Qaeda. So you can imagine why Saudi Arabia is NOT happy.JUST WATCHED Report: Saudis warn U.S. of asset sell-off for 9/11 bill Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Report: Saudis warn U.S. of asset sell-off for 9/11 bill 02:16BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Sorry seems to be the hardest wordAmber Heard and hubby Capt. Jack Sparrow apologize for smuggling dogs into Australia. But why does it look like a North Korean propaganda video?Cum on feel the noizeIf you live in the Northeast and parts of the Midwest, get ready for some noisy evenings: the cicadas are comingWe have a winner, we thinkWhy you can't trust the Internet with important things: "Boaty McBoatface" wins online poll as name of new $300 million polar research ship.Whole Lotta RosieCoach or ninja?A young gymnast is headed for the mat face-first at a competition in Canada, until her coach saves her with a boss moveNumber of the day$436,065That's how much the Obamas made last year . That's actually low. The First Family's income's steadily declined because his books aren't selling like they used to.AND FINALLY ...This is gonna be yuuugeWe try to keep "And Finally..." a politics-free zone, but who can resist little kids during their best Donald Trump impressions?