If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Want to go to Europe -- but you're on a budget? Check out this list of the continent's most affordable cities . And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. College admissions scandalIt's being called the biggest college admissions scam ever. Fifty people -- including rich parents, famous actresses, college prep officials and coaches -- are accused in a federal indictment of participating in a scheme to get students into top-notch colleges. Here's how the scam allegedly worked : Parents paid a college prep organization to take tests on students' behalf or correct their answers. The organization also bribed college coaches to get the students into desired schools as recruited athletes, even if they didn't play sports, prosecutors said.The biggest names caught up in this include actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin . Prosecutors say they have Huffman, a one-time Oscar nominee, on tape talking about the scheme. The charges against them have spurred a lot of "Desperate Housewives" and "Full House" jokes, but this is no laughing matter. A senior academic adviser at the University of Minnesota says this cheating scandal is just the tip of the iceberg . And this may be the craziest thing: Some of the accused allegedly paid enough in bribes to finance a full college education! Get the latest on the case here2. Ethiopian plane crashAmong the 157 people killed in the Ethiopia crash was an entire family from Canada . Kosha Vaidya, of Ontario, was taking her teen daughters to Kenya to show them where she was born. Vaidya's husband and parents also died in the crash. Click here for the latest updates.JUST WATCHED Forensic team searches Ethiopian Airlines crash site Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Forensic team searches Ethiopian Airlines crash site 01:163. BrexitThe United Kingdom is set to leave the European Union in just more than two weeks, yet uncertainty over the exit couldn't be higher. Lawmakers again voted down Prime Minister Theresa May's Brexit departure agreement, so today they will vote on whether to simply leave the EU without any deal at all. Many have predicted this no-deal Brexit would be a disaster for the UK's economy, leading to turmoil at ports, food supply disruptions and medicine shortages. If today's vote fails -- and most observers think it will -- lawmakers will vote tomorrow on delaying Brexit for a couple of months. Click here for answers to the key Brexit questions you've always wanted to ask.JUST WATCHED Theresa May's Brexit deal suffers another huge defeat Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Theresa May's Brexit deal suffers another huge defeat 00:444. California slayingA man has been arrested in the slaying of a young girl whose body was found in a duffel bag near Los Angeles. But plenty of questions remain about the death of 9-year-old Trinity Love Jones. Emiel Lamar Hunt, 39, was charged in the crime, but authorities haven't given a motive or cause of death in the case. Hunt reportedly was the boyfriend of Trinity's mother. A second person was also arrested, but no other info was released about that person. Hunt's bail was set at $2 million.JUST WATCHED Police identify body of girl found inside duffel bag Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police identify body of girl found inside duffel bag 00:495. WeatherSpring may be just a week away, but Old Man Winter isn't going quietly. A "bomb cyclone," an intense and ferocious winter storm, will strike the nation's midsection today . It'll bring blizzard conditions and the risk of flooding and hurricane-force winds to the Rockies, Upper Midwest and central-northern Plains. Some 70 million people are in this storm's path, including about 45 million facing a high wind threat and 15 million facing a flood threat.JUST WATCHED 'Bomb cyclone' brings blizzard conditions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Bomb cyclone' brings blizzard conditions 01:34BREAKFAST BROWSEWhat the what?Odell Beckham Jr. got traded to Cleveland? Now, the Browns are Super Bowl contenders ? Excuse me, I need to lie down for a minute.Happy birthday, Part 1A New Jersey man's voicemail is full because his sons put up a billboard with his picture and cell phone number, asking folks to wish him a happy birthday.Happy birthday, Part 2Virginia McLaurin danced with a president and first lady at age 106. How is she going to top that as she turns 110JUST WATCHED Woman who danced with the Obamas turns 107 (2016) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman who danced with the Obamas turns 107 (2016) 01:35Give me the rose"The Bachelor" ended its latest season last night, and of course Colton Underwood, the latest man of the moment, pulled off a finale shockerHAPPENING LATERSentencing dayPaul Manafort, Donald Trump's ex-campaign chairman, will be sentenced on conspiracy and witness tampering charges. He could get up to 10 years in prison.JUST WATCHED What is the significance of Paul Manafort's sentence? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is the significance of Paul Manafort's sentence? 04:33TODAY'S NUMBER228The number of measles cases reported so far this year, according to the CDC. There were 372 cases in all of 2018.JUST WATCHED Lawmakers hold hearing on measles outbreak Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lawmakers hold hearing on measles outbreak 01:29AND FINALLYPups at play