If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) The shock and pain of the deadly plane crash in Ethiopia is being felt all over the world. Let's get to the latest and everything else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Ethiopia plane crashMeanwhile, we're learning more about the victims of this global tragedy. The passengers were from at least 35 countries. Twenty-one victims were UN staffers , headed to an environmental summit in Kenya. The flight, from Addis Ababa to Nairobi, was taken by UN personnel so often it was known as the "UN shuttle." One victim, a California man, was traveling with his brother just weeks before the birth of his first child. Then there's the Greek man who missed the ill-fated flight by mere minutes, arriving at the gate just after boarding ended. Click here for the latest on the crash and to read more about the victims.Richard Quest: Boeing wants answer to crash as much as anyone elseRichard Quest: Boeing wants answer to crash as much as anyone else 04:23Richard Quest: Boeing wants answer to crash as much as anyone else2. Brexittoday on Prime Minister Theresa May's withdrawal agreement. It's virtually the same one that went down in a historic defeat back in January. British officials say May and the EU The UK is set to leave the European Union in just 17 days. Just how that will happen is still up in the air. But we should get some clarity this week. Parliament will voteon Prime Minister Theresa May's withdrawal agreement. It's virtually the same one that went down in a historic defeat back in January. British officials say May and the EU negotiated some legal changes which "strengthen and improve" the deal in a bid to get still-skeptical lawmakers to sign on to it.tomorrow on whether the UK should leave the EU without a deal. That's the dreaded "no-deal" Brexit scenario that many fear would Thursday and vote on a proposal that would postpone Brexit altogether. Still confused? Check out our latest But if it fails again, lawmakers will voteon whether the UK should leave the EU without a deal. That's the dreaded "no-deal" Brexit scenario that many fear would wreck the UK's economy , with disruptions at ports, dwindling medical supplies and potential food shortages. Most observers think that one would fail, too, and if it did, lawmakers would then come back onand vote on a proposal that would postpone Brexit altogether. Still confused? Check out our latest non-Brit's guide to BrexitJUST WATCHED Here's what you need to know about Brexit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's what you need to know about Brexit 03:133. PoliticsThe Speaker of the House thinks the current President of the United States is unfit for office. That in itself is an astonishing statement. But despite the fact that Nancy Pelosi believes Donald Trump is so lacking "ethically" and "intellectually" that he shouldn't be running the country, she's not yet ready to try to push him out of office because, she says, "He's just not worth it." Pelosi told The Washington Post that's she's "not for impeachment" because it would be "so divisive to the country." She'd only go down that road, the top Dem said, if something turned up that's "compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan." That's not going to sit well with her party's energized left wing, though. For one, US Rep. John Yarmuth, chairman of the House Budget Committee, argued that impeachment hearings against Trump are "inevitable."JUST WATCHED Pelosi on impeaching Trump: He's just not worth it Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pelosi on impeaching Trump: He's just not worth it 02:494. VenezuelaThe US has pulled the rest of its diplomatic personnel out of its embassy in Caracas because of the "deteriorating situation" in the country. Parts of Venezuela are still in the dark after a massive power blackout last week. President Nicolas Maduro, who blames the outage on the US, says the power will come back on "little by little." School and work will be suspended for another two days. The country's National Assembly declared a nationwide state of emergency that will let the assembly seek help from foreign nations. The blackout is just more misery for the Venezuelan people, who are suffering through a humanitarian crisis caused by an economic collapse that's led to shortages of food and medicine.JUST WATCHED Guaido: Venezuela has collapsed after major blackouts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Guaido: Venezuela has collapsed after major blackouts 02:135. Climate changeTwo species of trees are having a harder time bouncing back after forest fires, and scientists think climate change is to blame. The Douglas fir and the Ponderosa pine -- two ecologically and economically important species -- aren't growing in forests as quickly as they once did after fires because climate change is producing more intense blazes that the trees struggle to recover from, a study says . The problem is most noticeable in forests in California, Colorado, the Northern Rockies and the Southwest. Scientists fear it's all leading to the abrupt decline of trees and making these lands increasingly unsuitable for tree regeneration.JUST WATCHED This concrete can trap CO2 emissions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This concrete can trap CO2 emissions 06:09BREAKFAST BROWSEThe sweet whiff of opportunityOne Chesapeake Bay retriever couldn't quite hack it as a drug-sniffing dog. So, he parlayed his skill into another worthwhile endeavor.Girl's best friendsShe's 7 years old, has an inoperable brain tumor and loves dogs. So, 40 K-9 officers paid her a visitStart at the topA 10-year-old boy in Australia dreams of starting his own airline. So, he wrote the CEO of Qantas for advice.One small stepThe NASA administrator says the first human being to step foot on Mars will probably be a womanPhotos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers This image is a cropped version of the last 360-degree panorama taken by the Opportunity rover's panoramic camera from May 13 through June 10, 2018. The view is presented in false color to make some differences between materials easier to see. Hide Caption 1 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Are those Martian blueberries? These tiny spherules pepper the sandy surface in this 3-centimeter (1.2-inch) square view of the Martian surface. Opportunity took this image while the target was shadowed by the rover's instrument arm. Hide Caption 2 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers From its perch high on a ridge, Opportunity recorded this image of a Martian dust devil twisting through the valley below. Just as on Earth, a dust devil is created by a rising, rotating column of hot air. When the column whirls fast enough, it picks up tiny grains of dust from the ground, making the vortex visible. Hide Caption 3 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers While traversing on and around the ancient volcanic feature called Home Plate, Spirit took many images of finely layered and more frothy looking volcanic rocks. Hide Caption 4 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Opportunity photographed its tracks in the soft sand between the Endurance and Victoria craters on the Meridiani Plains. Hide Caption 5 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers More blueberries! Opportunity took this photo in 2004 of a rock called "Last Chance." The spherules embedded in the rock reminded the researchers of berries in muffins. The textures in the rock actually helped researchers determine that Mars had wet environmental conditions in the past. Hide Caption 6 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Oppy's panoramic camera gathered this mosaic in 2014 of Wdowiak Ridge, as well as the rover's tracks to the right. This is about 70 degrees from north/northwest to east/northeast, showing the 500-feet ridge that rises 40 feet tall. Hide Caption 7 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers The rover took a selfie to show how much dust it had accumulated in 2011 before the windy season helped knock some of it off. Hide Caption 8 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Sometimes, when Opportunity's solar power was limited, it would stop between treks to different features on Mars. This 2010 photo of its tracks on the surface show it "hopping from lily pad to lily pad." Hide Caption 9 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers The Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter took this photo of Victoria Crater, about a half-mile in diameter. It was Opportunity's home for 14 of the first 46 months it spent on Mars. Hide Caption 10 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Opportunity's panoramic camera took this photo of outcrop rocks that it encountered on its journey in 2005. Cracks and other features are obvious. The two holes visible were drilled by the rover to expose the underlying material. Hide Caption 11 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers A shadow selfie. On July 26, 2004, the rover took this photo commemorating its 90 days on Mars -- the amount of time the mission was supposed to last. Instead, it continued for 15 years. Hide Caption 12 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Opportunity made an impact. A panoramic image shows the heat shield impact site when it landed in 2004. Hide Caption 13 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers This iron meteorite was the first meteorite of any type ever found on another planet. The basketball-sized meteorite is rich in iron and nickel, and Opportunity found it in 2005. Hide Caption 14 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Endurance Crater and its tendrils of sand presented a beautiful photo chance for the rover in 2004. Mars is full of dunes, and this is just one example Opportunity encountered. Hide Caption 15 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers These pointy features were called "Razorback." They're only a few centimeters tall, but the chunks of rock were found sticking up at the edge of flat rocks in Endurance Crater. They may have formed when fluids moved through rock fractures. Hide Caption 16 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers In 2010, Opportunity took this panorama of the eastward horizon view of Endeavour Crater's rim. Hide Caption 17 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers The Mars Spirit rover was Opportunity's twin, and it's mission ended in 2011. Both rovers featured a piece of metal with the American flag on the side. They are made of aluminum recovered from the site of the World Trade Center towers in New York City. Hide Caption 18 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers These two views from NASA's Curiosity rover -- from June 7, left, and June 10 2018 -- show how dust increased over three days from a major Martian dust storm that became planet-encircling on June 20, 2018. Opportunity was stranded in the middle of the storm and wasn't heard from afterward. Hide Caption 19 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers NASA's Opportunity rover appears as a blip in the center of this square. This image taken by HiRISE, a high-resolution camera on board NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, showed the dust storm over Perseverance Valley had substantially cleared. Hide Caption 20 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Hide Caption 21 of 21TODAY'S NUMBER$77 millionThe street value of the 3,200 pounds of cocaine seized at the port of Newark, New Jersey, called the largest cocaine bust there in nearly 25 yearsTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Massive winter storm with destructive winds and blizzard conditions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Massive winter storm with destructive winds and blizzard conditions 01:38AND FINALLYIgloo bachelor pad