If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) It's the ultimate travel adventure: A trip to a country that technically doesn't exist . (What kind of stamp do you get for that in your passport?) Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Mueller report2. ObamacareThe Trump administration is ramping up its efforts to topple Obamacare once and for all. In a dramatic reversal, the administration now says the entire Affordable Care Act should be struck down . Previously, the Justice Department's stance was that only portions of the law should be invalidated. A federal judge in Texas declared the entire health care law unconstitutional back in December, and now the administration says it agrees with that position as the case is appealed. The President has repeatedly said he would protect people with pre-existing conditions -- a pillar of Obamacare -- but the shift in the Justice Department's stand doubles down on stripping away all the health care law's protections.3. BrexitNow, Parliament is in charge. British lawmakers seized control of the chaotic Brexit process from Prime Minister Theresa May. So, lawmakers tomorrow could vote on as many as seven different options, including holding a second referendum, keeping the United Kingdom in a customs union with the European Union or even allowing the dreaded no-deal Brexit to take place. Whatever happens tomorrow could go a long way in determining what the UK's relationship with the EU will ultimately be and whether May can hold on to power . As of right now, the UK is set to leave the EU on April 12.JUST WATCHED Parliament votes to seize control of Brexit process Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Parliament votes to seize control of Brexit process 01:594. Bump stock banJUST WATCHED Trump: Bump stocks will be gone Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: Bump stocks will be gone 00:545. AppleJUST WATCHED Apple TV+ gets star-studded intro Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Apple TV+ gets star-studded intro 02:54BREAKFAST BROWSEWelcome to ... wait, what?Imagine the surprise on the faces of the British Airways passengers when their Dusseldorf-bound flight touched down in Edinburgh, Scotland'Hug me, brotha'Simmer down, "Drake & Josh" fans. Yes, Drake Bell and Josh Peck are working together again , but it won't be a reboot of their popular 2000s TV show.Walking awayMMA fighter Conor McGregor tweeted that he's retiring from the sport , but this isn't the first time he's stepped out of the octagon, now is it?JUST WATCHED UFC's Conor McGregor announces retirement Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH UFC's Conor McGregor announces retirement 00:50Snout shockerEver wonder why so many Egyptian statues have broken noses ? There's more to it than just run-of-the-mill vandalism.Baby boomNine is just fine in the labor unit at a Maine hospital, where nine pregnant nurses will give birth at about the same time.TODAY'S QUOTE"We were ashamed and white as sheets."Peter Haft, chairman and a managing partner at JAB Holdings, the family conglomerate which owns Krispy Kreme, after a three-year investigation uncovered the Reimann family's ties to the NazisJUST WATCHED Graffiti versus hate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Graffiti versus hate 02:34TODAY'S NUMBER$112.5 millionThat's how much Duke is paying to settle allegations that it used fake research to obtain federal grantsTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Cool temperatures prevail Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cool temperatures prevail 01:31AND FINALLYFarmers for a day