If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Still can't connect with folks on Facebook? The social media giant says what could be its biggest outage ever should end this morning .Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Ethiopian plane crashSimilarities between deadly Ethiopian Airlines and Lion Air crashes has led to the grounding of all Boeing 737 Max planes in the US. The FAA said these similarities were found in data gleaned from satellite-based tracking. So, the planes will stay out of US skies indefinitely, pending an examination of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302's black boxes. That will take place in Paris, where the black boxes are expected to arrive today. The US was the last country to ground the planes. US officials and Boeing had argued to keep the planes operating but changed course in light of this new information. Meanwhile, the world continues to mourn the victims of this international tragedy, including a woman traveling on the ill-fated flight with her family who sent a message to her sister, saying she felt " like there's something bad ahead ."2. PoliticsThe news is breaking fast and furious in the political world, so let's handle it lighting-round style:• The Senate votes today on a resolution of disapproval that would block President Trump's national emergency declaration on the US-Mexico border. It's expected to pass. Trump vows to veto it.• Paul Manafort was sentenced to 43 more months in prison on federal conspiracy and obstruction charges. So, that's a total of 7.5 years behind bars for Trump's ex-campaign chairman, who'd already been sentenced on financial convictions in Virginia. Then, just moments after the latest sentence was handed down, the Manhattan district attorney charged Manafort with business and mortgage fraud allegations.• An attorney connected with Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani reassured ex-Trump fixer Michael Cohen in an email back in April that Cohen could "sleep well tonight" because he had "friends in high places," a copy of an email obtained by CNN shows. Cohen presented this and another email during his closed-door congressional testimony as proof that a pardon was dangled before he cooperated with prosecutors. But the lawyer who wrote the emails called Cohen's interpretation "utter nonsense."• Make room for one more in the crowded Democratic presidential field. Beto O'Rourke announced his candidacy this morning. He's starting a three-day swing through Iowa today.JUST WATCHED Beto O'Rourke's rise to the national stage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Beto O'Rourke's rise to the national stage 02:013. BrexitJUST WATCHED UK parliament rejects amendment seeking a delay to Brexit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH UK parliament rejects amendment seeking a delay to Brexit 00:584. College admissions scandalJUST WATCHED Former Harvard president: Not wrong to say elites rig system Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Former Harvard president: Not wrong to say elites rig system 04:355. WeatherJUST WATCHED 'Bomb cyclone' moves into Midwest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Bomb cyclone' moves into Midwest 01:32BREAKFAST BROWSEOh baby, babyMusic by Britney Spears will soon make its way to Broadway . The musical comedy, "Once Upon a One More Time," opens this fall.JUST WATCHED Britney Spears postpones upcoming Vegas show Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Britney Spears postpones upcoming Vegas show 00:27Cleared for take-offRemember when catching a flight was a thrilling adventure? The Pan Am Experience takes you back , with dinner theater that recreates 1970s air travel.Final farewellOpportunity rover just sent one last gift from the Great Beyond: 354 photos of Mars' Perseverance Valley, where the spacecraft met its demise.Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers This image is a cropped version of the last 360-degree panorama taken by the Opportunity rover's panoramic camera from May 13 through June 10, 2018. The view is presented in false color to make some differences between materials easier to see. Hide Caption 1 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Are those Martian blueberries? These tiny spherules pepper the sandy surface in this 3-centimeter (1.2-inch) square view of the Martian surface. Opportunity took this image while the target was shadowed by the rover's instrument arm. Hide Caption 2 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers From its perch high on a ridge, Opportunity recorded this image of a Martian dust devil twisting through the valley below. Just as on Earth, a dust devil is created by a rising, rotating column of hot air. When the column whirls fast enough, it picks up tiny grains of dust from the ground, making the vortex visible. Hide Caption 3 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers While traversing on and around the ancient volcanic feature called Home Plate, Spirit took many images of finely layered and more frothy looking volcanic rocks. Hide Caption 4 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Opportunity photographed its tracks in the soft sand between the Endurance and Victoria craters on the Meridiani Plains. Hide Caption 5 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers More blueberries! Opportunity took this photo in 2004 of a rock called "Last Chance." The spherules embedded in the rock reminded the researchers of berries in muffins. The textures in the rock actually helped researchers determine that Mars had wet environmental conditions in the past. Hide Caption 6 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Oppy's panoramic camera gathered this mosaic in 2014 of Wdowiak Ridge, as well as the rover's tracks to the right. This is about 70 degrees from north/northwest to east/northeast, showing the 500-feet ridge that rises 40 feet tall. Hide Caption 7 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers The rover took a selfie to show how much dust it had accumulated in 2011 before the windy season helped knock some of it off. Hide Caption 8 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Sometimes, when Opportunity's solar power was limited, it would stop between treks to different features on Mars. This 2010 photo of its tracks on the surface show it "hopping from lily pad to lily pad." Hide Caption 9 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers The Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter took this photo of Victoria Crater, about a half-mile in diameter. It was Opportunity's home for 14 of the first 46 months it spent on Mars. Hide Caption 10 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Opportunity's panoramic camera took this photo of outcrop rocks that it encountered on its journey in 2005. Cracks and other features are obvious. The two holes visible were drilled by the rover to expose the underlying material. Hide Caption 11 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers A shadow selfie. On July 26, 2004, the rover took this photo commemorating its 90 days on Mars -- the amount of time the mission was supposed to last. Instead, it continued for 15 years. Hide Caption 12 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Opportunity made an impact. A panoramic image shows the heat shield impact site when it landed in 2004. Hide Caption 13 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers This iron meteorite was the first meteorite of any type ever found on another planet. The basketball-sized meteorite is rich in iron and nickel, and Opportunity found it in 2005. Hide Caption 14 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Endurance Crater and its tendrils of sand presented a beautiful photo chance for the rover in 2004. Mars is full of dunes, and this is just one example Opportunity encountered. Hide Caption 15 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers These pointy features were called "Razorback." They're only a few centimeters tall, but the chunks of rock were found sticking up at the edge of flat rocks in Endurance Crater. They may have formed when fluids moved through rock fractures. Hide Caption 16 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers In 2010, Opportunity took this panorama of the eastward horizon view of Endeavour Crater's rim. Hide Caption 17 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers The Mars Spirit rover was Opportunity's twin, and it's mission ended in 2011. Both rovers featured a piece of metal with the American flag on the side. They are made of aluminum recovered from the site of the World Trade Center towers in New York City. Hide Caption 18 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers These two views from NASA's Curiosity rover -- from June 7, left, and June 10 2018 -- show how dust increased over three days from a major Martian dust storm that became planet-encircling on June 20, 2018. Opportunity was stranded in the middle of the storm and wasn't heard from afterward. Hide Caption 19 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers NASA's Opportunity rover appears as a blip in the center of this square. This image taken by HiRISE, a high-resolution camera on board NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, showed the dust storm over Perseverance Valley had substantially cleared. Hide Caption 20 of 21 Photos: Mars Opportunity and Spirit rovers Hide Caption 21 of 21Must be MarchThe madness has already started for No. 1 Gonzaga, which fell to unranked St. Mary's in the West Coast Conference tournament final.Beauty on top of beautyIf the super bloom of wildflowers in California isn't exciting enough for you, then feast your eyes on the swarms of butterflies it's attracting.TODAY'S NUMBER21 yearsThe number of years in a row that Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International has been named the world's busiest airportJUST WATCHED Inside the world's busiest airport Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Inside the world's busiest airport 01:26TODAY'S QUOTE"God knows me and Siti Aisyah didn't do anything."Doan Thi Huong, the Vietnamese woman on trial in Malaysia for allegedly using a nerve agent to kill the half-brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. Prosecutors rejected Huong's appeal to drop the murder charge against her. Earlier this week, they freed Aisyah, her co-defendant, without saying why.JUST WATCHED Appeal denied for second Kim Jong Nam murder suspect Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Appeal denied for second Kim Jong Nam murder suspect 03:21AND FINALLYTaste test