Get '5 things' in your inbox If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Democratic presidential candidate John Hickenlooper shared a LOT about himself last night during a CNN town hall, including what his last name means and why he once saw a naughty movie with his mom. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here.)1. New ZealandLess than a week after the Christchurch attacks , New Zealand is taking serious action on gun laws. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced today that all military-style semi-automatic weapons, assault rifles and high-capacity magazines will be banned . The proposal goes to Parliament in the first week of April. Before that, New Zealand leaders may reclassify some semi-automatic weapons as "military-style." Of course, this means a lot of New Zealand citizens will suddenly find themselves owning illegal firearms. The country's Cabinet has been tasked with creating a buyback program, and there will be a period of "gun amnesty" during which citizens can drop off the newly banned firearms at police stations. One lobbying group acknowledged the changes may not sit well with some of its members but said it backs tougher laws, adding, "We are trying to tread a responsible path."JUST WATCHED CCTV footage shows suspected gunman fired at pedestrians Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CCTV footage shows suspected gunman fired at pedestrians 03:102. BrexitIt was another dramatic day for British politics, and the big EU decision on whether to delay Brexit hasn't even happened. UK Prime Minister Theresa May gave a televised address pinning the Brexit-delay blame on members of Parliament and doubling down on her controversial, oft-maligned exit deal. She also ruled out a second referendum and said she wouldn't delay Brexit beyond June 30, the deadline she's pitching today in Brussels. Needless to say, British lawmakers were outraged and took to social media to grouse. "Pitting Parliament against the people in the current environment is dangerous and reckless," one opposition lawmaker wrote. Meanwhile, new numbers continue to show a grim economic future in post-Brexit UK. Banks are expected to move about $1.3 trillion out of the country and an estimated 7,000 finance jobs will follow.JUST WATCHED May puts the pressure on lawmakers in Brexit address Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH May puts the pressure on lawmakers in Brexit address 02:59