If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) That big Powerball jackpot is now up to $625 million . Before you throw in for an office pool, read up on the best way to organize it so you don't all hate each other if you win. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. IsraelPresident Trump shook up longstanding US policy regarding the Golan Heights , a highly contested and strategic region claimed by both Israel and Syria. In a tweet, Trump said "it is time" for the US to "fully recognize Israel's Sovereignty" over the region. This is a huge foreign policy win for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and it couldn't have come at a more critical time. In less than three weeks, Israelis head to the polls to decide whether the embattled Netanyahu should remain in power. And, it's no secret that the Israeli leader is close with Trump. In fact, the President will host Netanyahu next week for dinner and talks at the White House. Since Trump is well-liked in Israel, his bond with the Prime Minister could hold some serious election sway.2. FacebookFacebook is facing yet another privacy flap. The company announced it mishandled sensitive passwords for hundreds of millions of its users and stored them in plain text (meaning: easily readable) format in a database that could be accessed by employees. Most of the affected passwords belong to people using the platform's Facebook Lite version. A Facebook executive said the company usually masks people's passwords, so no one working at Facebook can see them. Oh, and don't forget, Facebook may soon face a massive FTC fine because of issues with its data privacy practices.3. BrexitPhew. The latest Brexit crisis is finally solved -- kind of. UK Prime Minister Theresa May got her requested Brexit delay , but the deal isn't without its stipulations The EU actually rejected May's proposal and instead imposed its own timetable: If the UK can pass a withdrawal deal, it will leave the EU on May 22; but if it can't -- which is totally possible -- it'll get an unconditional delay until April 12 to offer new proposals for a way out. Meanwhile, communications between British leaders reveal security officials have advised British members of Parliament to take taxis home over fears that they could be attacked by members of the public over the handling of Brexit.JUST WATCHED May: Working hard to build support for Brexit deal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH May: Working hard to build support for Brexit deal 02:144. FentanylA new study reveals deaths from the synthetic opioid fentanyl skyrocketed more than 1,000% from 2011 to 2016, with deaths practically doubling every year starting in 2014. The study also found that by 2016, men were more than three times more likely to die of fentanyl use than women. And while deaths rose in every age group, the largest increase in death rates was among younger people, between ages 15 and 34. These staggering numbers are just another piece of the deadly puzzle of opioid abuse that lawmakers and medical professionals are scrambling to solve. The CDC confirmed last year that fentanyl is now the deadliest drug in AmericaJUST WATCHED Why are opioids so addictive? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why are opioids so addictive? 00:555. US floodingRecent historic flooding in the Midwest has devastated local farm businesses . Untold livestock have died as a result of rain and rapidly rising rivers. Entire harvests have been submerged, unsold grain has been ruined by moisture and some fields are so sodden, they may not be usable for awhile. Nebraska Gov. Pete Ricketts called the heavy rain and snow that's led to the record-breaking flooding the "most widespread disaster we have had in our state's history." Unfortunately, the risk for severe flooding in the region and beyond may continue through May , the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says. NOAA predicts 200 million people, many in the Midwest, Great Plains and Mississippi River valley, are at risk this spring for flooding.JUST WATCHED Private pilots come to aid Nebraska flooding victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Private pilots come to aid Nebraska flooding victims 01:42JUST IN ...North Korea responds to trade sanctionsJUST WATCHED Koreas removing weapons from DMZ village (2018) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Koreas removing weapons from DMZ village (2018) 02:32BREAKFAST BROWSEEdvard Munch's 'The Scream' has been misinterpreted for yearsGame of Thrones' Emilia Clarke survived 2 life-threatening brain bleedsPeople are kind of upset J.K. Rowling is revealing all of this romantic stuff about Dumbledore JUST NOWThe first Harry Potter book came out in 1997. Girl, you've had timeJUST WATCHED Rowling reveals Harry Potter secrets Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rowling reveals Harry Potter secrets 01:59Levi's CEO: Don't put jeans in the freezer. Or the washing machine.Japanese MLB star Ichiro Suzuki, one of the best ever, retires at 45TOTAL RECALLQuiz time!A Chinese buyer bid more than $1.4 million this week for what species of racing animal?A. pigeonB. horseC. dogD. bullTODAY'S NUMBER94 years, 172 daysThat's how old Jimmy Carter is today, making him the oldest living former American president in historyJUST WATCHED Jimmy Carter's 32-year passion to build homes (2016) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jimmy Carter's 32-year passion to build homes (2016) 01:33TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED A coastal storm continues to lash the Northeast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A coastal storm continues to lash the Northeast 01:36TODAY'S QUOTE"New Zealand mourns with you; we are one."Jacinda Ardern, addressing the Muslim community Friday during a national day of reflection. The Muslim Call to Prayer was broadcast on national television at 1:30 p.m. local time, followed by two minutes of silence to New Zealand Prime Minister, addressing the Muslim community Friday during a national day of reflection. The Muslim Call to Prayer was broadcast on national television at 1:30 p.m. local time, followed by two minutes of silence to remember those who lost their lives in the terrorist attack one week ago.JUST WATCHED New Zealand falls silent for mosque attack victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New Zealand falls silent for mosque attack victims 02:16AND FINALLYTuck me in, Mom!