Story highlights Police in Oregon post image of suspect who some think resembles reality star Mike RoweRowe responds on Facebook to quash the confusion(CNN) No, that wasn't reality TV star Mike Rowe charged with robbing a bank earlier this week.Rowe responded to the confusion about the suspected robber in a Facebook post on Wednesday.Police in Medford, Oregon, posted an image of the man, who was charged in a robbery on Monday, and from the angle of the photo, some think he looks a lot like the star of CNN's "Somebody's Gotta Do It."Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Mike Rowe, host of CNN's "Somebody's Gotta Do It," gets rescued by Texas A&M paramedics during a training exercise. Click through the gallery for more images of folks who #GottaDoIt and watch CNN in 2015 for Season 2. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – The firefighters at Texas A&M show Rowe how to properly put out a fire. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Darby Kittel shows Rowe the recycled parts he uses to build tiny houses. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Ariane Daguin teaches Rowe about the feeding process they use on the farm. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Joel Martin and Ariane Daguin show Rowe how to properly handle the chicks. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Rowe tries on one of the head pieces backstage at Pageant of the Masters. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Rowe sits in front of one of the life-sized paintings created for Pageant of the Masters. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Rowe spits a seed during the Watermelon Thump competition in Texas. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Rowe visited a survival school, where Thomas Coyne gave him a spear-throwing lesson. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Rowe tries to start a fire during his survival school experience. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Rowe learns the signature "Marching Cobra" move from drum team leader Don Daughtry. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Daughtry and Lionell Hamilton show Rowe a little drum technique. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Employees teach Mike Rowe about the "oyster orgy." Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Rowe traveled to a Maryland facility that's helping to replenish the endangered whooping crane population. Armed with crane puppets and special clothing, he joined the workers who interact with the birds. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' everyday – Native only to North America, just 22 whooping cranes existed on the planet in 1922, the facility's Dr. John French told Mike. Today there are more than 500. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Evan Voyles shows Rowe the sign he made for "Lucy's Fried Chicken." Volyes runs "The Neon Jungle," a sign making business in Austin, Texas. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Rowe holds performer Chelsea Bakken above the pool at the Las Vegas water acrobatic show "Le Reve." Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – "Le Reve" wardrobe technician Maria Palacios Togni has touched up about 132,000 shoes over the past nine years. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Rowe talks with Leila Cohoon at her hair art museum in Missouri. "Leila's Hair Museum" displays more than 600 wreaths and 2,000 pieces of jewelry made from human hair. The practice was popular in the Victorian era. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Photos: 'Somebody's Gotta Do It' Folks who 'gotta do it' every day – Join Mike for his CNN Original Series, "Somebody's Gotta Do It," which focuses on people whose passion for their jobs compels them to do it without question. It's when "your love for it pushes you right down the road," Rowe said. "Those are the people you want to know." Hide Caption 20 of 20"True, I am often attired in a sweatshirt and ball cap, and yes, I do share a certain resemblance with the culprit," Rowe told his Facebook followers."I've also been spotted in Medford on more than one occasion, (a lovely town by any standard.) However, I am not '5'6"- 5'8" tall with a small to medium build.' The last time I was 5'6" - 5'8" I was in the 6th grade. And the 'small to medium' ship sailed some time ago."Read More