(CNN) Deadly storms and flooding moved through the Midwest and South during the holidays, leaving a path of destruction across several states. And it's not over yet.Historic Missouri FloodingThe Missouri Red Cross opened shelters across the state for people affected by the flooding.Several aid organizations are also responding to the flooding and get ready to help with the clean up after the waters recede.All Hands is sending supplies and volunteers to help in Missouri and you can donate and/or volunteer.Catholic Charities is responding with immediate and long term shelter needs for people who have lost their homes.Team Rubicon , a veteran-based, non-profit organization, is sending volunteers to assist those affected by the flood.Illinois FloodingThe Illinois Red Cross has opened the following shelters for flood victims in southern Illinois:Bethalto Senior Center, 100 East Central, Bethalto, Illinois 62010Nameoki United Methodist Church, 1900 Pontoon Road, Granite City, Illinois 62040Shawnee Community College, 8364 Shawnee College Road, Ullin, Illinois 62992Texas TornadoesThe day after Christmas turned deadly in north Texas as storms and a tornado moved through several communities near Dallas destroying homes, churches and businesses along a 40 mile long path. A State of Disaster has been declared in several Texas counties.The Salvation Army of North Texas has also deployed assistance in hard hit areas.If you live in the area and would like to to work with the Texas Salvation Army, please visit go to their webpageSamaritan's Purse is assisting victims of the Texas storms. A tractor-trailer unit packed with tarps, generators and other supplies is based at Lake Ridge Bible Church in Mesquite, Texas. Volunteers are assisting homeowners devastated by the violent weather.Team Rubicon sent a team of volunteers and is working with other agencies to assist in removing debris and assessing damage to homes and businesses.Operation Blessing has also sent a convoy of supplies to North Texas and has set up a way for people to volunteer to help in Garland at the Granger Recreation Center and in Rowlett at the Rowlett Baptist Church. If you want to help, contact Operation Blessing's Volunteer Coordinator at 757.374.0944 or volunteer@ob.org .Mississippi small towns destroyedMississippi was hit just before Christmas and many injuries and deaths were reported. The governor declared a State of Emergency. Many communities have been damaged and in many cases, families have been left homeless.The small towns of Holly Springs and Clarksdale, Mississippi, are among the hardest hit. The Mississippi Red Cross is providing shelter, food and supplies and you can make a donation hereIf you live in the Holly Springs area you can drop off aid at the Eddie Smith Multipurpose Center, 285 North Memphis Street and in Clarksdale at the Civic Auditorium at 506 East 2nd Street.Samaritan's Purse is assisting also victims of the Mississippi storms. Another Samaritan's Purse tractor-trailer is based at Ashland Baptist Church in northern Mississippi. They will be working in an area around Ashland.Team Rubicon has volunteers assisting homeowners affected by the tornadoes.Direct Relief is also sending medical supplies to the region.Team Impact will continue to monitor the response to the deadly storms and flooding to provide ways you can help. If you have more information please tweet us @CNNImpact.