(CNN) Obama wears through a misconception. The militias wear out their welcome. And Wall Street is just plain worn down. It's Friday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door :GUN CONTROLRepeat after me: I'm not coming for your gunsI'm not coming for your gunsI'm not coming for your gunsOREGON OCCUPIERSJUST WATCHED Tribe council member: Protesters are bullies, criminals Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tribe council member: Protesters are bullies, criminals 02:25KOREA TENSIONSPump up the volume: It's Kim Jong Un's birthday. And the South celebrated it by blasting K-pop through huge speakers at its communist neighbor. That's one of the ways it annoys North Korea when things get tense. And after that H-bomb stunt lil Kim pulled this week, : It's Kim Jong Un's birthday. And the South celebrated it by blasting K-pop through huge speakers at its communist neighbor. That's one of the ways it annoys North Korea when things get tense. And after that H-bomb stunt lil Kim pulled this week, things are definitely tense in the peninsula . The North considers such propaganda broadcasts an act of war and will ... um, ah .. who knows what it'll do. Oh, if only Dennis Rodman was back there singing 'Happy Birthday' to the dictatorJUST WATCHED South Korea reactivates propaganda speakers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH South Korea reactivates propaganda speakers 01:28PARIS ANNIVERSARY ATTACKA close call: Today, we're expected to find out the name of the Today, we're expected to find out the name of the knife-wielding man who tried to force his way into a Paris police station carrying a fake bomb and a printed image of the ISIS flag. Cops shot him dead before he could do serious damage yesterday. But the timing of the attack is troubling: 11:30 a.m., about a year to the minute of the Charlie Hebdo massacre . Of course, Paris suffered an even bigger blow when terrorists struck again in November.JUST WATCHED Paris police kill man yelling 'Allahu Akbar' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Paris police kill man yelling 'Allahu Akbar' 01:22FINANCIAL MARKETSTGIF!: Wall Street's probably never been so happy to see the end of the week: the Dow's : Wall Street's probably never been so happy to see the end of the week: the Dow's down more than 900 , oil is at a 12-year low and China's stock market is, well, just screwed. China's economic woes are a definite drag on U.S. markets. But hope springs eternal. China seems to have calmed the markets this morning. Here's hoping the Dow takes a chill pill too.JUST WATCHED Asian markets hit by China volatility Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Asian markets hit by China volatility 03:41BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day: ""These are guys with the name D-Money, Smoothie, Shifty ... they come up here, they sell their heroin, they go back home. Incidentally, half the time they impregnate a young, white girl before they leave." Paule LePage, the governor of Maine, talking about : ""These are guys with the name D-Money, Smoothie, Shifty ... they come up here, they sell their heroin, they go back home. Incidentally, half the time they impregnate a young, white girl before they leave.", the governor of Maine, talking about out-of-town drug dealers and keepin' it classy.Hard to swallowThis is a Thai ad for a skin-whitening pill . Gee, we wonder why its generated such a backlash.A new Thai beauty ad has drawn backlash after suggesting "Just being white, you will win."The spice girlsNumber of the day: $700 million.That's the new Powerball jackpot, the biggest in U.S. history. The next drawing's Saturday. By all means, don't let the 1 in 292 million odds stop you.AND FINALLY ...If you don't have something nice to say, say it anyway... and that includes sending congrats to North Korea -- for detonating a nuke.