(CNN) It may not be over in Oregon. It may just be starting in North Korea. And it may be even worse in Flint. It's Thursday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .OREGON OCCUPATION: Go home. That's what protest leader Ammon Bundy asked of his fellow protesters yesterday, a day after he and others were arrested during a traffic stop. Bundy wants everyone still at Oregon's Malheur National Wildlife Refuge to "stand down" and go back home to their families, because "this fight is ours for now in the courts." But the remaining occupiers don't sound like they're going anywhere anytime soon. So, it's still anyone's guess whether this thing will end in a bang or a whimper.NORTH KOREA: U.S. spy satellites lay out the current scene: equipment and personnel being moved over the past couple of days to a secret facility in the northern part of North Korea. Preparations for a missile test ? Heavens no, the North Koreans say, it's just the stuff needed for a run-of-the-mill satellite launch. Avert your eyes; think nothing more of it. If all of this is for testing out a missile, it would violate U.N. resolutions. But when has that ever stopped Pyongyang?CALIFORNIA JAIL ESCAPEJUST WATCHED Prosecutor compares escaped inmate to 'Hannibal Lecter' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Prosecutor compares escaped inmate to 'Hannibal Lecter' 02:57EUROPE MIGRANT CRISISSo much for a warm welcome: Some places in Europe have welcomed refugees from the Middle East and North Africa with open arms. Others? : Some places in Europe have welcomed refugees from the Middle East and North Africa with open arms. Others? Not so much. We're looking at you, Denmark, and your law allowing officials to seize migrants' cash and valuables to help "cover expenses." And you, Middlesbrough, England, where you've put asylum seekers in homes with red doors. Very subtle. And you, Wales, and you Hungary, and ....JUST WATCHED Østergaard: 'Appalled' at negative comments about migrants Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Østergaard: 'Appalled' at negative comments about migrants 03:46FLINT WATER CRISISFrom bad to worse: So how many kids have been sickened by lead-contaminated water in Flint, Michigan? Who knows. That's essentially the answer Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder gave to CNN's Poppy Harlow yesterday. He said officials fear : So how many kids have been sickened by lead-contaminated water in Flint, Michigan? Who knows. That's essentially the answer Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder gave to CNN's Poppy Harlow yesterday. He said officials fear even more children were harmed than what blood tests have revealed so far. It's just simply too early in the crisis to get a good handle on how bad the damage is. Here's what else we learned during the chat with Snyder.JUST WATCHED Michigan governor: Flint crisis is failure in government Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Michigan governor: Flint crisis is failure in government 05:53BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:"You have distracted from my creative process... I am your OG and I will be respected as such... Maybe I couldn't be skinny and tall but I'll settle for being the greatest artist of all time as a consolation"Kanye West, unleashing , unleashing one hella tweetstorm on fellow rapper Wiz Khalifa.Wrong tuneConcerned neighbor: Officers, kick in the door of that apartment! I hear someone screaming in agony.Police: No worries. It's just some guy singing an operaBeat itWhite actor Joseph Fiennes will play pop legend Michael Jackson in a new comedy. The levelheaded, slow-to-judge folk of social media are not amused.Back to the futureThey probably won't come loaded with a flux capacitor, but new DeLoreans are headed back to a showroom near you.Gerber goodnessAwwwww! The new Gerber baby will give you all the feels.With friends like these ...WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening today.Sad memoryMost of us remember where we were when the space shuttle Challenger exploded 30 years ago today.AND FINALLY ...Straight outta jacketEver wanted to know how to escape a straitjacket? Pay attention.