(CNN) Here is a look back at the events of 2019.Notable US EventsJamel Ahmed Mohammed Ali Al-Badawi, the terrorist behind the 2000 attack on the USS Cole , is killed during an airstrike in Yemen according to a statement from US Central Command.January 14 - About About 30,000 Los Angeles educators go on strike , affecting more than half a million students.January 28 - Author Marianne Williamson launches her Author Marianne Williamson launches her Democratic presidential campaignFebruary 14 - The Senate The Senate confirms (54-45) William Barr as attorney general . He is sworn in at the White House.February 15 - Trump Trump declares a national emergency to allocate funds to build a wall on the border with Mexico. During the announcement, the president says he expects the declaration to be challenged in court. The same day, Trump signs a border security measure negotiated by Congress, with $1.375 billion set aside for barriers, averting another government shutdown.February 18 - Attorneys general from 16 states file a Attorneys general from 16 states file a lawsuit in federal court challenging Trump's emergency declarationFebruary 19 - announces his Democratic presidential bid. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders announces his Democratic presidential bid.March 1 - Washington Washington Gov. Jay Inslee announces his Democratic presidential bid.March 7 - Lobbyist and former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort is Lobbyist and former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort is sentenced in Virginia to 47 months in prison for bank fraud, filing false tax returns and failure to file reports of foreign bank and financial accounts.March 12 - Fifty people, including actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin, are Fifty people, including actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin, are charged with offenses related to a college admissions cheating scheme.March 13 - Manafort is Manafort is sentenced to an additional 43 months in prison for conspiracy against the United States and conspiracy to obstruct justice in the District of Columbia.March 13 - Trump announces the United States is grounding all Boeing 737 Max 8 and Max 9 aircraft, amid concerns over their involvement in two Trump announces the United States is grounding all Boeing 737 Max 8 and Max 9 aircraft, amid concerns over their involvement in two major plane crashes less than six months apartMarch 24 - . According to Barr's four-page letter, the evidence was not sufficient to establish that members of Trump's campaign tacitly engaged in a criminal conspiracy with the Russian government to interfere with the election. Barr releases a letter summarizing the principal conclusions from Mueller's investigation . According to Barr's four-page letter, the evidence was not sufficient to establish that members of Trump's campaign tacitly engaged in a criminal conspiracy with the Russian government to interfere with the election.April 4 - Ohio Rep. Tim Ryan announces his Ohio Rep. Tim Ryan announces his Democratic presidential bidApril 8 - California Rep. Eric Swalwell California Rep. Eric Swalwell announces his Democratic presidential bidApril 15 - Former Massachusetts Gov. Bill Weld announces he is running for the Former Massachusetts Gov. Bill Weld announces he is running for the Republican nomination for president , on CNN's The Lead with Jake Tapper.April 22 - Massachusetts Rep. Seth Moulton announces his Massachusetts Rep. Seth Moulton announces his Democratic presidential bidMay 2 - Colorado Sen. Michael Bennet announces his Colorado Sen. Michael Bennet announces his Democratic presidential bidMay 14 - Montana Gov. Steve Bullock announces his Montana Gov. Steve Bullock announces his Democratic presidential bidMay 16 - New York Mayor Bill de Blasio announces his New York Mayor Bill de Blasio announces his Democratic presidential bidMay 29 - Mueller delivers his first public statement about the Russia investigation . He says charging Trump with a crime was not an option the office could consider; because a sitting president cannot be indicted per Justice Department policy. "If we had had confidence that the president clearly did not commit a crime, we would have said so," Mueller says. "We did not, however, make a determination as to whether the president did commit a crime." He announces the special counsel's office is closing, and he's resigning from the DOJ.May 31 - Twelve people are killed in a Twelve people are killed in a shooting at a municipal office in Virginia Beach, Virginia . The gunman is fatally wounded during a shootout with police.June 12 - Trump tells ABC News he Trump tells ABC News he would "listen" to information on his 2020 opponents from a foreign government and might not tell the FBI.June 18 - Trump holds a rally in Orlando to publicize the Trump holds a rally in Orlando to publicize the formal launch of his reelection campaignJune 26-27 - The The first Democratic debate , sponsored by NBC News, MSNBC and Telemundo, takes place over two nights, in Miami. The candidates taking part on the first night include Warren, O'Rourke, Booker, Castro, Gabbard, Inslee, Klobuchar, de Blasio, Delaney and Ryan. Night two features Biden, Sanders, Buttigieg, Harris, Gillibrand, Bennet, Williamson, Swalwell, Yang and Hickenlooper.July 6 - and accused of sex trafficking of minors. Billionaire Jeffrey Epstein is arrested and accused of sex trafficking of minors.July 8 - Swalwell announces he is dropping out of the presidential race.July 9 - Former hedge fund manager Tom Steyer announces his Former hedge fund manager Tom Steyer announces his Democratic candidacy for presidentJuly 9 - Excerpts of profanity-laden, homophobic and misogynistic Excerpts of profanity-laden, homophobic and misogynistic messages between Puerto Rico's Gov. Ricardo Rosselló and members of his inner circle are published by local media. On July 13, the Center for Investigative Journalism publishes hundreds of leaked messages, in which Rosselló and members of his inner circle ridicule numerous politicians, members of the media and celebrities.July 10 - Six people, including a former education secretary and a former health insurance official, are indicted on corruption charges in Six people, including a former education secretary and a former health insurance official, are indicted on corruption charges in Puerto Rico . The conspiracy allegedly involved directing millions of dollars in government contracts to politically-connected contractors.July 11 - A series of protests begin in response to the leaked messages and the indictment, with calls for Rosselló to resign. On July 24, he announces he will resign on August 2.July 14 - Via Twitter, Trump tells Via Twitter, Trump tells US Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Rashida Tlaib, Ilhan Omar and Ayanna Pressley to "go back" to their home countries . Ocasio-Cortez, Tlaib and Pressley are natural-born US citizens; Omar was born in Somalia, immigrated to the US and became a citizen.July 25 - Trump speaks on the phone with Trump speaks on the phone with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. Trump asks Zelensky for a "favor," encouraging him to speak with Giuliani about investigating Biden. In the days before the call, Trump had blocked nearly $400 million in military and security aid to Ukraine.July 30-31 - The second Democratic debate, sponsored by CNN, CNN International and CNN en Español, takes place over two nights, in Detroit. The candidates taking part on the The second Democratic debate, sponsored by CNN, CNN International and CNN en Español, takes place over two nights, in Detroit. The candidates taking part on the first night include Sanders, Warren, Buttigieg, O'Rourke, Klobuchar, Hickenlooper, Ryan, Delaney, Williamson and Bullock. Night two features Biden, Harris, Booker, Yang, Castro, Gabbard, Gillibrand, Inslee, Bennet and De Blasio.August 7 - Puerto Rico's Justice Secretary Wanda Vázquez Garced is sworn in as the third governor Puerto Rico has had in less than a week. The August 2nd swearing-in of Rosselló's handpicked successor, attorney Pedro Pierluisi, is thrown out in court, on grounds he has not been confirmed by both chambers of the legislature.August 13 - CBS and Viacom agree to an CBS and Viacom agree to an all-stock mergerAugust 18 - The The US military conducts a flight test of a ground-launched cruise missile . The missile test was previously banned under the INF treaty.August 19 - The The NYPD fires Pantaleo , and announces he will not receive his pension.August 21 - Inslee announces he is Inslee announces he is suspending his presidential campaignAugust 21 - The Trump administration announces a rule change allowing the indefinite detention of immigrant families, including children.August 25 - Conservative radio host and former Illinois Conservative radio host and former Illinois Congressman Joe Walsh announces he will challenge Trump for the Republican presidential nominationAugust 31 - After being pulled over by Texas troopers for failing to use his signal, Seth Ator, 36, shoots at the police and then speeds away. After being pulled over by Texas troopers for failing to use his signal, Seth Ator, 36, shoots at the police and then speeds away. Ator hijacks a mail truck and drives around randomly shooting at residents and motorists, killing seven and wounding 25 others . Ator is killed during a shootout with police.September 3 - The Pentagon diverts $3.6 billion in military construction funds to The Pentagon diverts $3.6 billion in military construction funds to build Trump's US-Mexico border wallSeptember 12 - The The third Democratic presidential debate , sponsored by ABC and Univision, takes place in Houston. The participants are Biden, Booker, Buttigieg, Castro, Harris, Klobuchar, O'Rourke, Sanders, Warren and Yang.September 13 - Actress Felicity Huffman is sentenced to 14 days in prison for her role in a college admission cheating scandal. She must also serve one year of probation, perform 250 hours of community service and pay a $30,000 fine.September 16 - The Manhattan District Attorney's Office The Manhattan District Attorney's Office subpoenas eight years of Trump tax returns from Mazars USA, the longtime accounting firm to Trump and the Trump Organization, as part of its investigation into hush money payments.September 24 - Pelosi announces the Pelosi announces the launch of a formal impeachment inquiry into President Trump.October 4 - The Sanders campaign releases a statement that The Sanders campaign releases a statement that Sanders has been discharged from the hospital after being treated for a heart attackOctober 15 - The The fourth Democratic Presidential debate , sponsored by CNN and the New York Times, takes place in Westerville, Ohio. The participants are Biden, Booker, Buttigieg, Castro, Gabbard, Harris, Klobuchar, O'Rourke, Sanders, Steyer, Warren and Yang.October 18 - NASA astronauts Jessica Meir and Christina Koch conduct the NASA astronauts Jessica Meir and Christina Koch conduct the first all-female spacewalk outside of the International Space StationOctober 24 - Ryan announces he is dropping out of the presidential race.November 1 - O'Rourke announces he is ending his presidential campaign.November 12 - Sanford announces he is suspending his presidential campaign.November 14 - Former Governor of Massachusetts Deval Patrick Former Governor of Massachusetts Deval Patrick announces his Democratic presidential bidNovember 20 - The The fifth Democratic Presidential debate takes place in Atlanta. Participant are Biden, Booker, Buttigieg, Gabbard, Harris, Klobuchar, Sanders, Steyer, Warren and Yang.December 1 - Sestak announces he is ending his presidential campaign.December 2 - Bullock announces he is ending his presidential campaign.December 3 - Harris ends her 2020 presidential campaign.Notable International EventsJanuary 6 - King Muhammad V announces his abdication, after serving two years of his five-year term. This is the first time in modern history that King Muhammad V announces his abdication, after serving two years of his five-year term. This is the first time in modern history that Malaysia 's constitutional leader has stepped down.January 14 - Pawel Adamowicz , the mayor of the Polish city of Gdansk and a well-known critic of his country's right-wing government, dies one day after he is stabbed by a man who rushed on stage during an open-air charity event.January 15 - Alex Cifuentes, a former personal aide to Mexican drug lord Alex Cifuentes, a former personal aide to Mexican drug lord Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman , testifies that the drug kingpin once paid a $100 million bribe to former Mexican President Enrique Peña NietoJanuary 15 - UK Prime Minister Theresa May 's Brexit deal is defeated 202-432. Corbyn calls for a vote of no-confidence after May's defeat, saying it will allow the House of Commons to "give its verdict on the sheer incompetence of this government."January 16 - in the House of Commons. Lawmakers vote 325-306 in favor of the government remaining in power. May survives a vote of no-confidence in the House of Commons. Lawmakers vote 325-306 in favor of the government remaining in power.January 25 - At least At least 249 people are killed following the collapse of a dam at an iron mine in Brumadinho, Brazil.January 27 - , killing at least 23 people and leaving approximately 100 wounded. The first device detonates inside the cathedral, and the second one targets nearby soldiers who rushed to help the victims of the first explosion. Two bombs explode in a Roman Catholic cathedral in the Philippines , killing at least 23 people and leaving approximately 100 wounded. The first device detonates inside the cathedral, and the second one targets nearby soldiers who rushed to help the victims of the first explosion.March 10 - from Addis Ababa on its way to Nairobi, Kenya, killing all 157 people on board. The disaster was the second such crash of a Boeing 737 Max 8 jet in less than six months, and raised fears about the model's automated software, prompting the worldwide grounding of all similar planes currently in service. Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 crashes after taking off from Addis Ababa on its way to Nairobi, Kenya, killing all 157 people on board. The disaster was the second such crash of a Boeing 737 Max 8 jet in less than six months, and raised fears about the model's automated software, prompting the worldwide grounding of all similar planes currently in service.March 21 - An overcrowded An overcrowded ferry capsizes in the Tigris River near Mosul , killing approximately 100 people, officials say.April 15 - A massive A massive fire at Notre Dame Cathedra l in Paris burns large parts of the 850-year-old church.April 21 - Comedian and television star Comedian and television star Volodymyr Zelensky is elected president of UkraineMay 24 - as leader of the Conservative Party on June 7. May announces she will step down as leader of the Conservative Party on June 7.June 16 - Organizers estimate that Organizers estimate that two million people hit the streets in Hong Kong to protest a controversial China extradition bill , despite the government announcing the legislation would be "suspended." The crowd called for the extradition bill to be withdrawn permanently, and many also wanted Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam to step down over her handling of the incident. The bill is withdrawn on September 4.July 23 - is elected leader of Britain's Conservative Party. Boris Johnson is elected leader of Britain's Conservative Party.August 11 - During the 10th consecutive weekend of During the 10th consecutive weekend of protests in Hong Kong , police fire tear gas in areas across the city, including into the Kwai Fong train station, which is full of protestors.August 22 - South Korea announces it is scrapping its South Korea announces it is scrapping its military intelligence-sharing agreement with JapanAugust 28 - from mid-September, shortening the time available to lawmakers to block a no-deal Brexit. Queen Elizabeth approves Johnson's request to suspend UK parliament from mid-September, shortening the time available to lawmakers to block a no-deal Brexit.September 1 - strengthens to a Category 5 Hurricane Dorian strengthens to a Category 5 hurricane and makes landfall in the Bahamas. At least 61 people are killed, houses are destroyed and countless residents are left homeless.October 21 - Protests begin in Bolivia , with angry crowds accusing authorities of fraud in the presidential election.October 22 - , after the region failed to restore its power-sharing executive that collapsed more than 1,000 days ago. Northern Ireland's restrictive abortion and same-sex marriage laws come to an end , after the region failed to restore its power-sharing executive that collapsed more than 1,000 days ago.October 26 - The police commissioner for the Oromia region tells CNN that at least 67 people have been killed and more than 200 injured in The police commissioner for the Oromia region tells CNN that at least 67 people have been killed and more than 200 injured in protests in Ethiopia over the last few days as Nobel winner's backers and critics clash.October 28 - At least 42 people are killed by a At least 42 people are killed by a landslide in western CameroonOctober 28 - Chilean President Sebastian Pinera replaces his Cabinet following days of violent protests that paralyzed the country and led to the deaths of at least 20 people.October 29 - Lebanon's Prime Minister Saad Hariri announces that he will step down.October 30 - The United Nations releases a report saying that at least 29 people have died and another 14,000 have been displaced in Kenya due to floods and landslides from heavy rainfall.October 31 - At least At least 73 people are killed in a fire that engulfed a train in Pakistan , after a gas canister that passengers were using to prepare breakfast exploded.October 31 - ISIS releases an audio message confirming the death of leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and announcing its new leader is Abu Ibrahim al-Hashimi al-Qurashi.November 1 - A law takes effect mandating the creation of an independent internet for Russia . The law, signed by Putin in May, establishes rules to create a national network that can operate independently from the rest of the world. The law allows Russia's telecoms agency to close the country off from external traffic.November 8 - Former Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva is released from prison.November 12 - At least 12 people are killed and 100 others injured when At least 12 people are killed and 100 others injured when two trains collide in eastern BangladeshNovember 15 - Chilean Senate President Jaime Quintana announces that Chilean Senate President Jaime Quintana announces that Chile's Congress has reached an agreement to reform the country's constitution in an effort to restore peace after weeks of violent protests that have led to the deaths of at least 20 people.November 26 - At least 46 people are killed and hundreds injured when an At least 46 people are killed and hundreds injured when an earthquake strikes AlbaniaNovember 29 - Following nearly two months of Following nearly two months of anti-government protests , Iraqi Prime Minister Adil Abdul Mahdi's office releases a statement saying he will resign.Awards and WinnersJanuary 6 - The 76th Annual The 76th Annual Golden Globe Awards are presented in Beverly Hills, California, and air live on NBC with Sandra Oh and Andy Samberg as hosts.January 7 - The Clemson Tigers defeat the Alabama Crimson Tide 44-16 in the The Clemson Tigers defeat the Alabama Crimson Tide 44-16 in the College Football Playoff National Championship , at Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara, California.January 14-27 - The The Australian Open takes place. Novak Djokovic defeats Rafael Nadal to win his seventh Australian Open in the men's final, and Naomi Osaka defeats Petra Kvitova in the women's final.January 26 - The The NHL All-Star Game takes place at SAP Center in San Jose, California. The Metropolitan Division defeats the Central Division 10-5. Sidney Crosby is named MVP.January 27 - The 25th Annual The 25th Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards are held, with Megan Mullally as host.January 27 - The 49th The 49th NFL Pro Bowl takes place at Camping World Stadium in Orlando. The AFC team defeats the NFC team, 26-7.February 3 - LIII takes place at Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta. The New England Patriots defeat the Los Angeles Rams 13-3. Super Bowl LIII takes place at Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta. The New England Patriots defeat the Los Angeles Rams 13-3.February 10 - The 61st Annual The 61st Annual Grammy Awards take place at Staples Center in Los Angeles.February 11-12 - The 143rd Annual The 143rd Annual Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show takes place. A male wire fox terrier nicknamed King wins Best in Show.February 17 - Denny Hamlin wins the 61st Annual Denny Hamlin wins the 61st Annual Daytona 500February 17 - The 68th The 68th NBA All-Star Game takes place at Spectrum Center in Charlotte, North Carolina. Team LeBron defeats Team Giannis, 178-164.February 24 - The 91st Annual The 91st Annual Academy Awards ceremony takes place.March 13 - Peter Kaiser wins his first Peter Kaiser wins his first IditarodMarch 30 - The 50th The 50th NAACP Image Awards ceremony is held.April 8 - The Virginia Cavaliers defeat the Texas Tech Red Raiders 85-77 in the The Virginia Cavaliers defeat the Texas Tech Red Raiders 85-77 in the NCAA Men's Basketball TournamentApril 11-14 - The 83rd The 83rd Masters golf tournament takes place. Tiger Woods wins by one shot for his first major title in 11 years and first Masters win since 2005.April 15 - The The Pulitzer Prizes are announced.April 15 - The 123rd The 123rd Boston Marathon takes place. The winners are Lawrence Cherono of Kenya in the men's division, and Worknesh Degefa of Ethiopia in the women's division.May 4 - The 145th The 145th Kentucky Derby takes place. Country House, with jockey Flavien Prat, crosses the finish line second but is declared the winner after Maximum Security is disqualified for interference. It is the first time a Derby winner has been disqualified because of a foul on the track.May 5 - The 46th Annual The 46th Annual Daytime Emmy Awards ceremony takes place.May 13-19 - Brooks Koepka of the United States survives a late scare to successfully defend his title at the 101st Brooks Koepka of the United States survives a late scare to successfully defend his title at the 101st PGA Championship at Bethpage State Park in Farmingdale, New York.May 14-25 - The 72nd The 72nd Cannes Film Festival takes place. "Parasite," by South Korea's Bong Joon-ho, wins the Palme d'Or, the festival's top prize.May 18 - War of Will, with jockey Tyler Gaffalione, wins the 144th War of Will, with jockey Tyler Gaffalione, wins the 144th Preakness StakesMay 26 - The 103rd The 103rd Indianapolis 500 takes place. Simon Pagenaud of France is the winner.May 26-June 9 - The The French Open takes place. Ashleigh Barty defeats Marketa Vondrousova, 6-1 6-3 to win her first Grand Slam title and become the first Australian to win the clay-court tournament since Margaret Court in 1973. Rafael Nadal beats Dominic Thiem, 6-3 5-7 6-1 6-1 to earn his 12th French Open title.June 7-July 7 - The Women's The Women's World Cup takes place in France. USA defeats the Netherlands 2-0 to become the only country to win four Women's World Cup championships.June 8 - Sir Winston, ridden by Joel Rosario, wins the 151st Sir Winston, ridden by Joel Rosario, wins the 151st Belmont StakesJune 9 - The 73rd Annual The 73rd Annual Tony Awards are presented.June 12 - The St. Louis Blues win their first The St. Louis Blues win their first Stanley Cup in their 52-year history after defeating the Boston Bruins 4-1 in Game 7.June 13 - The Toronto Raptors defeat the Golden State Warriors with a series win, 4-2, in the The Toronto Raptors defeat the Golden State Warriors with a series win, 4-2, in the NBA FinalsJune 16 - Gary Woodland of the United States wins the 119th Gary Woodland of the United States wins the 119th US Open at Pebble Beach Golf Links in California.July 1-14 - The The Wimbledon tennis championships take place in London. Djokovic defeats Roger Federer in the men's final, to win his fifth Wimbledon title. Simona Halep of Romania defeats Serena Williams in the women's final to win her first Wimbledon title. She is also the first Romanian to win the tournament.July 6-28 - The 106th The 106th Tour de France takes place. Egan Bernal, 22, is crowned as the first Colombian to win the Tour de France and is the youngest winner in more than a century.July 18-21 - The 148th The 148th Open Championship takes place at Royal Portrush Golf Club in Northern Ireland. Shane Lowry of Ireland wins the tournament, his first major title.August 26-September 8 - The The US Open tennis tournament takes place. Bianca Andreescu defeats Serena Williams , and Rafael Nadal wins his fourth US Open title by defeating Daniil Medvedev.September 22 - The 71st annual The 71st annual Primetime Emmy Awards are presented.November 3 - The 49th The 49th New York City Marathon takes place. The winners are Geoffrey Kamworor of Kenya in the men's division, and Joyciline Jepkosgei of Kenya in the women's division.Notable Deaths in 2019Daryl Dragon - January 2John "Jack" Bogle - January 16John Coughlin - January 18Tony Mendez - January 19Kevin Barnett - January 22Kristoff St. John - February 3John Dingell - February 7Frank Robinson - February 7Walter B. Jones Jr. - February 10Ricardo Boechat - February 11Karl Lagerfeld - February 19Peter Tork - February 21Katherine Helmond - February 23André Previn - February 28Keith Flint - March 4Luke Perry - March 4Hal Blaine - March 11Birch Bayh - March 14Dick Dale - March 16Ermias Asghedom "Nipsey Hussle" - March 31Ernest "Fritz" Hollings - April 6Georgia Engel - April 12Richard Lugar - April 28Ellen Tauscher - April 29John Singleton - April 29Peter Mayhew - April 30Jim Fowler - May 8Tim Conway - May 14Bob Hawke - May 16I.M. Pei - May 16Herman Wouk - May 17Sammy Shore - May 18Judith Kerr - May 22John Pinto - May 24Bart Starr - May 26Bill Buckner - May 27Thad Cochran - May 30Pat Bowlen - June 13Judith Krantz - June 22Beth Chapman - June 26Luis Alvarez - June 29Tyler Skaggs - July 1Eva Kor - July 4João Gilberto - July 6Fernando de La Rua - July 9Rip Torn - July 9Fernando Corbató - July 12Pernell "Sweet Pea" Whitaker - July 14Johnny Clegg - July 16Andrea Camilleri - July 17Elijah "Pumpsie" Green - July 17Rutger Hauer - July 19Beji Caïd Essebsi - July 25Hal Prince - July 31Peter Fonda - August 16Richard Williams - August 16Kathleen Blanco - August 18David Koch - August 23Valerie Harper - August 30Daniel Johnston - September 11T. Boone Pickens - September 11Juanita Abernathy - September 12Eddie Money - September 13Ric Ocasek - September 15Mike Stefanik - September 15Cokie Roberts - September 17Suzanne Whang - September 17Emily Clyburn - September 19Zine el Abidine Ben Ali - September 19Barron Hilton - September 19Joseph Wilson - September 27Jessye Norman - September 30Diahann Carroll - October 4Ginger Baker - October 6Rip Taylor - October 6Robert Forster - October 11Harold Bloom - October 14Elijah Cummings - October 17Willie Brown - October 22Robert Evans - October 26John Conyers - October 27Kay Hagan - October 28Azellia White - September 14John Witherspoon - October 29Walter Mercado - November 2Yvette Lundy - November 3Ernest Gaines - November 5Michael J. Pollard - November 20Gahan Wilson - November 21John McKissick - November 28Irving Burgie - November 29Shelley Morrison - December 1Pat Sullivan - December 1