If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) It's the first full week of Movember. Also, NoShavember. Confused? Both focus on health -- and a lot more hair.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Impeachment inquiryThe sound of silence may end up being this week's soundtrack for the House impeachment probe. All four White House officials scheduled to give depositions today won't show up , a source tells CNN. Three others -- including Energy Secretary Rick Perry -- who were due to be deposed this week plan to skip out, too. Still, Democrats seem undeterred by their subpoenas being ignored at the behest of the White House , with some saying it's time to take the proceedings to the public stage. Meantime, the whistleblower who filed the complaint at the center of the inquiry is willing to answer written questions from Republicans, their lawyer said. The questions, however, cannot seek to identify the whistleblower.2. McDonald'sThe top exec of one of the world's most popular burger chains is out. McDonald's board found that Steve Easterbrook violated company policy and "demonstrated poor judgment involving a recent consensual relationship with an employee," the company said. Easterbrook in an email to employees expressed regret and called the relationship "a mistake." Easterbrook had led McDonald's aggressive modernization plan, including adding digital menu boards and selling fresh beef burgers . But he also ran up against some tension with franchisees. Stepping in as president and CEO is Chris Kempczinski, the recent head of McDonald's USA.JUST WATCHED McDonald's CEO out after alleged company policy violation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH McDonald's CEO out after alleged company policy violation 01:073. Europe & the far-rightOfficials in two European countries took steps to push back against what they consider threats from the far-right. In Norway, a high-profile American white supremacist was arrested hours before he was due to give a speech at a far-right conference. Intelligence authorities considered Greg Johnson "to be a threat, not because of what he could do but because of his hate speech and his previously expressed support for Anders Breivik ," the right-wing terrorist who killed 77 people in 2011. Johnson said he's never supported Breivik's crimes and has "always consistently condemned violence and terrorism." In Germany, city councilors in Dresden declared a "Nazi emergency" after years of "right-wing extremist, racist" activity. The symbolic move has no legal consequences but aims to highlight the far-right threat, said an official in a swath of the country where anti-immigrant sentiment runs high.JUST WATCHED German city of Dresden declares 'Nazi emergency' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH German city of Dresden declares 'Nazi emergency' 00:354. AirbnbAirbnb may not be your go-to for that next big bash. The global online lodging marketplace announced it's banning "party houses" after five people were shot and killed at a Halloween party near San Francisco. CEO Brian Chesky tweeted that his company will expand screening of high-risk reservations, create a "'party house' rapid response team" and potentially remove anyone from its site who breaks the rules. Though the deadly party happened at a rental that forbade parties, it was advertised on social media and drew more than 100 people. The party problem is the latest test for Airbnb, which has been accused of skirting local laws and propagating overtourismJUST WATCHED 5 killed in California Halloween party shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 5 killed in California Halloween party shooting 00:315. MeaslesYou know in the movies, when someone's memories get zapped away by some inexplicable fictional force? Turns out measles has a similar -- but very real -- trick up its sleeve. The virus can erase the immune system's memory, leaving us vulnerable to diseases we were previously protected against, two separate studies have found. Dubbed "immune amnesia," researchers say measles can undo the protection vaccines provide, wiping out 11% to 73% of patients' protective antibodies. We're talking infections like flu or tuberculosis, so measles outbreaks can cause spikes in other illnesses. Surviving measles patients can regain the lost immunities -- but only by being re-exposed to the illnesses. Measles, of course, is easily preventable, with two doses making the vaccine 97% effective.JUST WATCHED What in the World: Anti-vax brings measles back Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What in the World: Anti-vax brings measles back 04:09BREAKFAST BROWSEKnow the signsCountry singer Chely Wright revealed she had a stroke a year ago, just after turning 48. She's speaking out now so we might all better recognize the signsA Kenyan rookie beat a Kenyan superstar in the NYC marathonJoyciline Jepkosgei's goal was just to finish strong in her first-ever marathon . Her countryman, Geoffrey Kamworor, won the men's division.'Houston, we have a cookie'An oven -- and cookie dough -- just blasted off to the International Space Station for the very first time. Now, about that glass of milk ...A storm dislodged a boat trapped above Niagara Falls for 101 yearsJohn Legend got 'wine drunk' and sang 'All of Me' onstageTODAY'S QUOTE"I didn't ask God to let me live, but I asked God to give me a proper attitude toward death. And I found that I was absolutely and completely at ease with death."JUST WATCHED See Jimmy Carter teach Sunday school following injury Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See Jimmy Carter teach Sunday school following injury 01:05TODAY'S NUMBER$1.5 trillionThe record-shattering value analysts say an initial public offering of Saudi Aramco could garner. Saudi Arabia's huge state oil producer announced its intention to float shares on the Tadawul exchange in Riyadh.JUST WATCHED Saudi oil giant Aramco announces IPO Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Saudi oil giant Aramco announces IPO 01:56HAPPENING LATERThe Nationals head to the White HouseJUST WATCHED Washington Nationals clinch first World Series Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Washington Nationals clinch first World Series 01:20TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Rounds of precipitation to hit Eastern US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rounds of precipitation to hit Eastern US 01:40AND FINALLYIt's all fun and games ...