Photos: Highlights from Tuesday's Apple event Highlights from Tuesday's Apple event – Apple CEO Tim Cook kicked off the company's iPhone press event before several hundred reporters and guests Tuesday at the Apple campus in Cupertino, California. Hide Caption 1 of 9Photos: Highlights from Tuesday's Apple event iOS 7 coming September 18 – Apple Senior Vice President of Software Engineering Craig Federighi speaks about iOS 7, the next version of Apple's mobile operating system. A complete overhaul of the system that runs iPhones and iPads, iOS 7 will be available September 18. Hide Caption 2 of 9Photos: Highlights from Tuesday's Apple event iOS 7's new look – The new iPhones will come loaded with iOS 7, which will also be available in a wireless update for users of older iPhones. The new system replaces the textures and shiny icons of iOS 6 in favor of a brighter look with more muted colors. Hide Caption 3 of 9Photos: Highlights from Tuesday's Apple event The $99 iPhone 5C – Apple Senior Vice President of Worldwide Marketing Phil Schiller speaks about the new iPhone 5C -- a cheaper, $99 model that will have a plastic case instead of aluminum. Hide Caption 4 of 9Photos: Highlights from Tuesday's Apple event The many colors of iPhone 5C – Unlike current iPhones, the new iPhone 5C will come in bright colors such as pink, green and yellow. It also features a 4-inch high-res display and an 8 megapixel camera, plus a snappy A6 processing chip. Hide Caption 5 of 9Photos: Highlights from Tuesday's Apple event iPhone 5S – The new iPhone 5S, the successor to the current iPhone 5, will come in silver, gray and champagne gold. Prices start at $199 for the 16GB model (with a two-year contract), and go up to $399 for the 64GB. Hide Caption 6 of 9Photos: Highlights from Tuesday's Apple event Touch ID sensor – Phil Schiller talks about the new fingerprint sensor on the iPhone 5S's Home button. Called Touch ID, the system uses a sapphire crystal and capacitive touch sensor to take a high-resolution image of your fingerprint and match it with prints in its database, offering extra security if your phone falls in the wrong hands. Hide Caption 7 of 9Photos: Highlights from Tuesday's Apple event ... but no surprises – Everything Apple announced Tuesday had pretty much been expected for weeks by tech analysts. There was no "one more thing": no smartwatch, no TV set, no other new gadget. Fans hoping for a bold leap forward from Apple may have been disappointed. Hide Caption 8 of 9