If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Democrats will control the Virginia House and Senate for the first time in more than two decades.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Election resultsIt was not a good night for Republicans. Democrats are celebrating in one of the reddest states after Andy Beshear declared victory over incumbent Republican Gov. Matt Bevin in Kentucky, who said he'd not concede. In Virginia, Democrats won majorities in both the House and Senate , giving the party full control of the state government and solidifying what was once a swing state into a stronghold for the party. Things were more optimistic for Republicans in Mississippi, where they held on to the governor's office, beating back a veteran Democrat's bid for another potential election-night stunner.2. Mexico massacreA suspect has been arrested after nine Americans -- all family members -- were killed in a highway ambush on the Mexican side of the border with the United States. Mexican authorities believe the suspect is part of a newly formed cartel , and he was arrested with two hostages who were bound and gagged. Criminal groups attacked the family members Monday while they were driving near the US-Mexico border, killing three women, four small children and two infants -- all dual citizens of the US and Mexico -- in their vehicles. Eight children survived the attack, seven of whom were flown to Arizona hospitals after a 13-year-old walked about six hours to get help, his family said.JUST WATCHED Mexico arrests suspect in Mormon family massacre Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mexico arrests suspect in Mormon family massacre 00:553. Impeachment inquiryIn a stunning twist, a top US diplomat revised his testimony to confirm the existence of a quid pro quo . Gordon Sondland, the US ambassador to the EU, now says that he did, in fact, tell a top aide to the Ukrainian President that US security aid was linked to investigations into former Vice President Joe Biden and the 2016 election. His new testimony, released yesterday, adds to Democrats' evidence that President Trump connected the freezing of security aid to Ukraine to investigations into Biden as well as the hacking of the Democratic National Committee's servers during the 2016 election. That information cuts to the heart of their impeachment case against Trump. Listen to more explosive details here.JUST WATCHED First excerpts of Sondland, Volker transcripts released Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH First excerpts of Sondland, Volker transcripts released 02:154. UK electionJUST WATCHED Female lawmakers are stepping down ahead of UK election Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Female lawmakers are stepping down ahead of UK election 03:035. Cell phone mergerThe acquisition of Sprint by T-Mobile got official approval from US federal officials, a major win as the two companies seek to complete a $26 billion merger amid resistance from consumer advocacy groups. The merger could prove transformative for a US wireless industry facing cutthroat competition in recent years over everything from prices to customer contracts. As the nation's third- and fourth-largest wireless carriers, T-Mobile and Sprint have led the charge in ending early termination fees and reintroducing unlimited data plans. As the two companies combine, the future of the marketplace is uncertain.JUST WATCHED 5G is the future. But it's not really here yet Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 5G is the future. But it's not really here yet 03:03BREAKFAST BROWSENot bad for someone who can't driveA 14-year-old from Pennsylvania came up with a solution for driving blind spots -- and won a $25,000 prize for it.Keanu 'no longer single' Reeves?Keanu Reeves stepped out holding hands with artist Alexandra Grant -- and the internet swooned and cheered him on.Good night, kidsIn an effort to stop video game addiction, China has announced an overnight curfew on online gaming for those under 18.Singledom, rebrandedDon't refer to actress Emma Watson as single. She prefers "self-partnered," thank you very much.Bye bye, real furQueen Elizabeth II has ditched real fur in her outfits and opts for fake. Her message: Fur is out of fashion , her senior dresser says.TODAY'S QUOTE"I forgive you for your anger and hatred towards me. I pray to God that he forgives you for your anger and hatred towards me."Charles Rhines before he was executed in South Dakota Convicted murderer to his victim's family before he was executed in South DakotaTODAY'S NUMBER11,000The number of scientists from all over the world who've issued a grim warning of the "untold suffering" climate change will bring if humanity doesn't change its ways.JUST WATCHED It's snowing. Where is global warming? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH It's snowing. Where is global warming? 01:09HAPPENING LATEROh, the mystery ...David Hale, a high-ranking official in the State Department, is expected to testify before House impeachment investigators today. It's unclear whether he'll show up -- several witnesses haven't.TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Cold temperatures and snow from the Rockies to Maine Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cold temperatures and snow from the Rockies to Maine 01:32AND FINALLYJust dance!