Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Good morning from 5 Things, where we bring you the alternative to alternative facts. Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Trump administrationThe Trump era is only a few days old, but it's already gifted us a new phrase -- "alternative facts." As in, statements that aren't lies - just alternatives to the truth. It started with Press Secretary Sean Spicer, who proclaimed that President Trump's inauguration was the biggest ever "period!" (It wasn't, no matter how you slice it - visual evidence or TV ratings ). Yesterday, Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway doubled down on that assertion -- and added that phrase to our lexicon. Conway also told us the President won't be releasing his tax returns after all, despite campaign promises to eventually do so.2. Women's March3. Syria peace talks4. WeatherMillions are under tornado watches in the Southeast this morning after a wave of deadly storms killed more than a dozen people in two states over the weekend. Fourteen people died in Georgia where tornadoes left behind a landscape dotted with overturned cars, debris and damaged homes . And a tornado -- with winds up to 165 mph -- killed four people in Mississippi. Meanwhile, on the West Coast, parts of California dealt with a wicked winter storm. A woman in northern California died after the storm caused a tree to fall into her apartment. And two people are missing off the coast of Pebble Beach.5. Super BowlBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Ya think?Well here's some news that won't shock you. The echo chamber that Facebook creates around us makes us more narrow minded. Who knew?Location, location, locationReady to move to Hong Kong? Well then bring your wallet, because for the seventh year in a row it's the most expensive place in the world to live.Circle in the roundIf you get tired of the view outside your bedroom window, maybe you should buy this house in Australia, which rotates 360 degrees.Just a little helpSomeone pulled a fire alarm at 3 a.m. at the hotel where the Steelers were staying before the AFC championship game, which they lost to the Patriots.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHTake twoAND FINALLY ...He means it this time