Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Good Wednesday morning. There are just 16 more days until Inauguration Day, which brings you either great joy or great heartburn. Anyway, here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. PoliticsHouse Republicans pulled a 180 and dumped their plan to gut an independent ethics watchdog . They endured blistering criticism all day and then threw in the towel when President-elect Trump whacked them (via tweet, of course). And while he was on Twitter, Trump took another shot at the intelligence agencies that will brief him on Russia's alleged hacking of our elections.2. Inauguration DayDonald Trump's inauguration guest list just got a little bit longer. The Clintons and the Bushes will be there for his big day. Hillary Clinton's going to put aside whatever hurt feelings that may be left over from the election, and former President George W. Bush said he'll be happy to attend, despite not even voting for Trump. But there may be a no-show in the inaugural parade. Trump's invited a marching band from a historically black college in Alabama to perform, but the invite has sharply divided Talladega College. The school's president says he'll announce today whether the band will make the trip.3. NAACP sit-inA sit-in at Jeff Sessions' office ended with arrests. Six members of the NAACP, including its president, arrived at the Alabama senator's office in Mobile and announced they weren't leaving until Sessions was no longer Trump's nominee for attorney general . But they were arrested instead and charged with trespassing. Sessions has been accused of making racist remarks in the past.4. Charles MansonCharles Manson is in serious condition at a prison hospital in California. Not much more is known about why the 82-year-old ex-cult leader was hospitalized. Manson shocked the nation back in 1970 when he ordered a wave of killings by his followers that left seven people dead.5. Istanbul nightclub attackTurkey says it now knows who shot up Reina nightclub early on New Year's Day, but the government won't name him or provide his nationality. Police released a "selfie video" of the man at a market near the nightclub. Five suspected ISIS members were also detained in the investigation. ISIS has claimed responsibility for the massacre which killed 39 people.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.That's the way love goesMs. Jackson is a momma. Singer Janet Jackson gave birth to her first child , a boy named Eissa.You owe me big timeTwo-year-old Bowdy has forever bragging rights over his twin brother. But those are the perks when you rescue your sibling from under a fallen dresser.He's so groundedDad's getting sworn into office as a US congressman by the Speaker of the House, so of course it's the perfect time to dabMegyn's moveMegyn Kelly's joining the mainstream media. The Fox News star says she's headed to NBC , where she'll host a daytime news program.Hey neighborPresident Obama won't be the only new face in DC's Kalorama neighborhood after he leaves office. Ivanka Trump and her family are moving there too.AND FINALLY ...A tasty burger