Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Happy Friday the 13th (gulp!). We're back Tuesday after Martin Luther King Jr. Day. Please make it a day of service. Click here to find places to volunteer in your city. Now, let's get you Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. FBI-Justice Department probeThought the Clinton email scandal died with the election? Nope. Now an investigation of the investigators has started. The inspector general will look at how the Justice Department and the FBI handled the probe into Hillary Clinton's private email server. (The inspector general is the Justice Department's internal watchdog.) You can expect FBI Director James Comey to face questions again about why he revived the case less than two weeks before the election. Some Democrats are convinced that's why Clinton lost.2. US and Cuba3. Confirmation hearings4. California droughtThe Golden State hasn't been so golden lately. Winter storms have pounded California with heavy rain and snow, triggering floods and avalanches and even toppling some of its famous giant trees . But there's a silver lining: it's knocking out the drought that's plagued the state for years . More than 7 inches of rain have fallen since Monday and up to a foot of snow has hit the Sierra Nevada. All that precipitation is filling up the state's lakes and reservoirs nicely.5. FinancesYou receive a sudden, unexpected $500 bill. You either A) write a check or B) freak out. A new report says a little more than half of us will pick option B. The report from Bankrate says nearly six in 10 Americans don't have enough savings to cover a $500 or $1,000 unplanned expense.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.BFFsPresident Obama threw Joe Biden the best surprise party ever and even got him a great gift -- the Presidential Medal of Freedom.Speak softly?A vegan woman's application for Swiss citizenship keeps getting denied because the locals think her opinions on animal rights are too "loud."Bolt from the blueThe San Diego Chargers are moving to LA but hopefully their new logo won't, since it was pretty much laughed off the internet.Getting your goatA downward dog is much better with a goat. Well, at least it is in Oregon, where yoga classes with goats are so popular there's a 1,200-person waiting list.Tunnel visionStonehenge may be Britain's birthplace, but traffic around the landmark is awful. So officials are putting a tunnel under it, and archaeologists are PO'd.AND FINALLY ...Blinding you with science