Story highlights Robert McCulloch made the indictment announcement late Monday nightHe blasted social media and the "insatiable appetite" of the 24-hour news cycleMcCulloch stressed the importance of physical evidenceAll eyes and ears were on St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney Robert McCulloch late Monday when he announced there would be no indictment in the shooting death of Michael Brown.But that wasn't all he talked about.In his nearly 45-minute statement, including questions, McCulloch touched on a variety of topics: the role of the 24-hour news cycle, the relative unreliability of eyewitnesses and the evidence and testimony in the case."I thought of his statement in two parts. The first part was an extended whine and complaint about the news media and social media, which I thought was entirely inappropriate and embarrassing," said CNN legal Analyst Jeffrey Toobin."I did think it was appropriate for him to go through the evidence, but frankly it was hard to follow and I think a lot of us are going to have to go through the evidence itself and see whether his conclusions are justified," he said.JUST WATCHED Grand jury does not indict Darren Wilson Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Grand jury does not indict Darren Wilson 00:49Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers walk past the smoldering remains of a beauty supply store in Ferguson, Missouri, on Tuesday, November 25. Ferguson has been struggling to return to normal since Michael Brown, an unarmed black teenager, was killed by Darren Wilson, a white police officer, on August 9. The grand jury did not indict Wilson in the case, prompting new waves of protests in Ferguson and across the country. Hide Caption 1 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A woman cleans up glass from a business' shattered window on November 25. Hide Caption 2 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A Ferguson firefighter surveys rubble at a strip mall that was set on fire overnight. Hide Caption 3 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters run away after police deployed tear gas in Ferguson on Monday, November 24. Hide Caption 4 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police take position during clashes with protesters on November 24. Hide Caption 5 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A protester stands in front of police vehicles with his hands up on November 24. Hide Caption 6 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police in riot gear move past a burning vehicle on November 24. Hide Caption 7 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A looter in Ferguson walks out of a burning Walgreens on November 24. Hide Caption 8 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Riot police clash with protesters on November 24. Hide Caption 9 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Firefighters work on extinguishing a Little Caesars restaurant on November 24. Hide Caption 10 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Smoke fills the streets of Ferguson as buildings burn on November 24. Hide Caption 11 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers grab a protester on November 24. Hide Caption 12 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A woman treats her face for possible tear gas exposure on November 24. Hide Caption 13 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson People walk away from a burning storage facility on November 24. Hide Caption 14 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A man steps out of a vandalized store on November 24. Hide Caption 15 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A police officer runs by a burning police car on November 24. Hide Caption 16 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers stand guard as protesters confront them on November 24. Hide Caption 17 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters block streets in St. Louis after the announcement of the grand jury's decision on November 24. Ferguson is a suburb of St. Louis. Hide Caption 18 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police confront protesters in Ferguson on November 24. Hide Caption 19 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A police officer points his rifle at demonstrators on November 24. Hide Caption 20 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters run for shelter as smoke fills the streets of Ferguson on November 24. Hide Caption 21 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson The glass windows of a store are shattered on November 24. Hide Caption 22 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A demonstrator listens to a car radio as the grand jury's decision is delivered in front of the Ferguson Police Department. Hide Caption 23 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Lesley McSpadden, mother of Michael Brown, is escorted away from the Ferguson Police Department on November 24. Hide Caption 24 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A group of protesters vandalizes a police vehicle in Ferguson on November 24. Hide Caption 25 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers confront protesters on November 24. Hide Caption 26 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Demonstrators block traffic during a protest in front of the Ferguson Police Department on November 24. Hide Caption 27 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Demonstrators gather outside the police station on November 24. Hide Caption 28 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters gather as they wait for the announcement of the grand jury decision on November 24. Hide Caption 29 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Members of the media line up in a parking lot across from the Buzz Westfall Justice Center on November 24. Hide Caption 30 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Residents begin to gather at the Michael Brown memorial ahead of the grand jury announcement. Hide Caption 31 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson National Guard troops arrive ahead of the grand jury announcement. Hide Caption 32 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Members of the Missouri National Guard are escorted out of the Buzz Westfall Justice Center. Hide Caption 33 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Demonstrators are confronted by police as they block a street before the grand jury announcement. Hide Caption 34 of 34JUST WATCHED Obama speaks as smoke fills the streets Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama speaks as smoke fills the streets 01:29Photos: Officer Darren Wilson Photos: Officer Darren Wilson Officer Darren Wilson – Officials released never-before-seen photos of Ferguson, Missouri, police officer Darren Wilson after it was announced Monday, November 24, that a grand jury had chosen not to indict Wilson for the shooting death of Michael Brown. These photos were taken on the day of Wilson's altercation with Brown, and they were released as part of the evidence that was presented to the grand jury. Read what Wilson told the grand jury Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Officer Darren Wilson Officer Darren Wilson – Another photo taken on the day of Wilson's altercation with Brown. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Officer Darren Wilson Officer Darren Wilson – Another photo taken on the day of Wilson's altercation with Brown. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Officer Darren Wilson Officer Darren Wilson – Another photo taken on the day of Wilson's altercation with Brown. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Officer Darren Wilson Officer Darren Wilson – Another photo taken on the day of Wilson's altercation with Brown. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Officer Darren Wilson Officer Darren Wilson – Another photo taken on the day of Wilson's altercation with Brown. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Officer Darren Wilson Officer Darren Wilson – Another photo taken on the day of Wilson's altercation with Brown. Hide Caption 7 of 7Decision to announce verdict at night devastatingCNN is combing through that evidence now.In the meantime, here's a rundown of McCulloch's main points:The media was a problemThe prosecuting attorney blasted the media's constant need for news."The most significant challenge encountered in this investigation has been the 24-hour news cycle and its insatiable appetite for something -- for anything -- to talk about, following closely behind with the non-stop rumors on social media," McCulloch said.He acknowledged the lack of detail could be frustrating and might make those already distrustful of the system more suspicious. But the secrecy, he said, serves a point."Those closely guarded details, especially about the physical evidence, give law enforcement a yardstick for measuring the truthfulness of witnesses," said McCulloch.Eyewitness accounts must be challengedMcCulloch spent a fair amount of time talking about the unreliability of some eyewitness statements. Some witnesses, he said, changed their stories. Others were proven wrong by the physical evidence.Darren Wilson, a white officer, fatally shot Brown, an unarmed black teen, on August 9.McCulloch offered the following example to help prove his case."Before the results of the private autopsy were released, witnesses on social media, during interviews with the media, and even during questioning by law enforcement claimed that they saw Officer Wilson stand over Michael Brown and fire many rounds into his back."Others claimed that Officer Wilson shot Mr. Brown in the back as Mr. Brown was running away."However, once the autopsy findings were released showing that Michael Brown had not sustained any wound to the back of his body, no additional witnesses made such a claim and several witnesses adjusted their stories in subsequent statements. Some even admitted that they did not witness the event at all, but merely repeated what they heard," the prosecuting attorney said.Physical evidence was keyAs opposed to eyewitness accounts, McCulloch stressed the importance and reliability of physical evidence."Physical evidence does not change because of public pressure or personal agenda. Physical evidence does not look away as events unfold, nor does it block out or add to memory. Physical evidence remains constant and as such is a solid foundation upon which cases are built," he said.Wilson fired 12 roundsMcCulloch told reporters two shots were fired at Wilson's car, where there was an altercation with Brown. Ten more shots were fired east of the car, where the teen had run, he said."A nearby tenant, during a video chat, inadvertently captured the final 10 shots on tape. There was a string of several shots, followed by a brief pause, following by another string of several shots," said McCulloch.The jurors are the only ones who know the whole storyThe prosecuting attorney repeatedly praised the good work of the grand jurors."The grand jury worked tirelessly to examine and reexamine all of the testimony of the witnesses and all of the physical evidence. They were extremely engaged in the process, asking questions of every witness, requesting specific witnesses, requesting specific information and asking for certain physical evidence," said McCulloch.The jurors listened to more than 70 hours of testimony from about 60 witnesses and reviewed hours upon hours of recordings. They "poured their hearts and souls into this process ... gave up their lives," McCulloch said."They accepted and completed this monumental responsibility in a consciousness and expeditious manner," he told reporters. "They are the only people, the only people, who have heard and examined every witness and every piece of evidence."Brown's death has opened old woundsMcCulloch opened his statement by extending his sympathies to the Brown family."I've said in the past, I know, that regardless of the circumstances here, they lost a loved one to violence, and I know that the pain that accompanies such a loss knows no bounds," he said.No young man should ever be killed by a police officer, just like no officer should be put in that position, said McCulloch."This is a loss of a life and it's a tragic loss, regardless of the circumstances. But it's opened old wounds, and it's given us an opportunity now to address those wounds," he said.McCulloch added: "I don't ever want to be back here, so we have to keep that discussion going and everybody has to stay engaged in it. This is a horrible tragedy, and we don't want to see any repeats."