Story highlights Shaylee Chuckulnaskit was 14 years oldShe died Friday at a hospital, a week after she was shot in her school cafeteriaTwo other students died; two cousins of the gunman were woundedThe shooter took his own life in the cafeteriaShaylee Chuckulnaskit , 14, died Friday night at Providence Regional Medical Center, the hospital said.She and four other students were shot October 24 in the cafeteria of Marysville Pilchuck High School.Shaylee Chuckulnaskit was "a radiant light bringing us incredible joy and happiness." her family says.JUST WATCHED Shooter invited victims to cafeteria Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shooter invited victims to cafeteria 01:56JUST WATCHED Expert: Schools need shooting drills Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Expert: Schools need shooting drills 01:22JUST WATCHED What motivated Wa. school shooting? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What motivated Wa. school shooting? 03:21Zoe Galasso, 14, died at the scene while Gia Soriano, 14, died Sunday night.Shaylee's family issued a statement shortly after her death."Our hearts are broken at the passing of our beautiful daughter. Shay means everything to us," the family said."In Shay's short life she has been a radiant light bringing us incredible joy and happiness. She has been a loving daughter, a caring sister, a devoted friend and a wonderful part of our community. We can't imagine life without her."Tulalip Tribes, a federally recognized Indian tribe , said the Chuckulnaskit family is part of its extended community."The Tulalip Tribes continue to offer up our condolences and prayers for the passing of Zoe Galasso and Gia Sariano, our hearts are heavy as we hear of the passing of Shaylee Chuckulnaskit," the Tribes said."With the loss of these three young lives there are no words that can truly express our compassion and condolences and the loss we feel."Many questions remain about why the shootings occurred, but the answers may never be known.Jaylen also took his own life in the school cafeteria.