Story highlights Michael Brown's family wants officer to be held accountableThey may turn to civil remedies, including wrongful death suitFederal investigations, meanwhile, will continue, Holder saysBrown family says it wants "positive" changeHis mother ran down the street, tears streaming down her face. His father said he was "devastated."When a Missouri grand jury decided not to indict Ferguson police Officer Darren Wilson in his fatal shooting, Michael Brown's family believed they were denied justice.Ahead of the decision announced late Monday, Michael Brown Sr. called for calm. After word of the grand jury decision broke, some protesters smashed the windows of a police cruiser and tried to overturn it. Others picked up bricks and smashed the windows of a restaurant. Police responded by firing tear gas. A chant arose, " F*ck the police! "The unrest came after the family challenged those outraged with the decision to channel their frustration in "ways that will make a positive change."But the violence in Ferguson spread, leaving family attorney Benjamin Crump to call for peace and a "constructive response.""Michael Brown and the unknown Michael Browns are crying out from the grave, saying we have to change this system that let people kill them or .... without consequence," Crump told CNN.Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers walk past the smoldering remains of a beauty supply store in Ferguson, Missouri, on Tuesday, November 25. Ferguson has been struggling to return to normal since Michael Brown, an unarmed black teenager, was killed by Darren Wilson, a white police officer, on August 9. The grand jury did not indict Wilson in the case, prompting new waves of protests in Ferguson and across the country. Hide Caption 1 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A woman cleans up glass from a business' shattered window on November 25. Hide Caption 2 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A Ferguson firefighter surveys rubble at a strip mall that was set on fire overnight. Hide Caption 3 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters run away after police deployed tear gas in Ferguson on Monday, November 24. Hide Caption 4 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police take position during clashes with protesters on November 24. Hide Caption 5 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A protester stands in front of police vehicles with his hands up on November 24. Hide Caption 6 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police in riot gear move past a burning vehicle on November 24. Hide Caption 7 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A looter in Ferguson walks out of a burning Walgreens on November 24. Hide Caption 8 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Riot police clash with protesters on November 24. Hide Caption 9 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Firefighters work on extinguishing a Little Caesars restaurant on November 24. Hide Caption 10 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Smoke fills the streets of Ferguson as buildings burn on November 24. Hide Caption 11 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers grab a protester on November 24. Hide Caption 12 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A woman treats her face for possible tear gas exposure on November 24. Hide Caption 13 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson People walk away from a burning storage facility on November 24. Hide Caption 14 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A man steps out of a vandalized store on November 24. Hide Caption 15 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A police officer runs by a burning police car on November 24. Hide Caption 16 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers stand guard as protesters confront them on November 24. Hide Caption 17 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters block streets in St. Louis after the announcement of the grand jury's decision on November 24. Ferguson is a suburb of St. Louis. Hide Caption 18 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police confront protesters in Ferguson on November 24. Hide Caption 19 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A police officer points his rifle at demonstrators on November 24. Hide Caption 20 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters run for shelter as smoke fills the streets of Ferguson on November 24. Hide Caption 21 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson The glass windows of a store are shattered on November 24. Hide Caption 22 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A demonstrator listens to a car radio as the grand jury's decision is delivered in front of the Ferguson Police Department. Hide Caption 23 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Lesley McSpadden, mother of Michael Brown, is escorted away from the Ferguson Police Department on November 24. Hide Caption 24 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson A group of protesters vandalizes a police vehicle in Ferguson on November 24. Hide Caption 25 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Police officers confront protesters on November 24. Hide Caption 26 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Demonstrators block traffic during a protest in front of the Ferguson Police Department on November 24. Hide Caption 27 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Demonstrators gather outside the police station on November 24. Hide Caption 28 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Protesters gather as they wait for the announcement of the grand jury decision on November 24. Hide Caption 29 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Members of the media line up in a parking lot across from the Buzz Westfall Justice Center on November 24. Hide Caption 30 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Residents begin to gather at the Michael Brown memorial ahead of the grand jury announcement. Hide Caption 31 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson National Guard troops arrive ahead of the grand jury announcement. Hide Caption 32 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Members of the Missouri National Guard are escorted out of the Buzz Westfall Justice Center. Hide Caption 33 of 34 Photos: Unrest in Ferguson Demonstrators are confronted by police as they block a street before the grand jury announcement. Hide Caption 34 of 34JUST WATCHED Obama speaks as smoke fills the streets Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama speaks as smoke fills the streets 01:29What options remain available to the Brown family or what actions might give them some solace?Federal investigationsThe U.S. Justice Department is conducting two civil rights investigations: one into whether Wilson, who is white, violated the civil rights of Brown, who was black, and the other into the police department's overall track record with minorities.The investigations will likely require lots of time, if similar past cases are any indication.Last week, CNN legal analyst Paul Callan said the lack of an indictment could push the federal government to "open a much more stringent and powerful investigation" of Brown's shooting."Now they know he's not going to be prosecuted on a state level, and the feds have a right to do a completely independent investigation, and they're not bound in any way by grand jury determination," he said.But Crump late Monday sounded pessimistic about that route."That is a very high standard and it's not very likely. The family understands if there is no indictment it is likely the killer of their child won't be held accountable and that's heartbreaking to them."U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder stressed that the federal civil rights investigation into the shooting death of Brown, 18, continues."Even at this mature stage of the investigation, we have avoided prejudging any of the evidence," Holder said. "And although federal civil rights law imposes a high legal bar in these types of cases, we have resisted forming premature conclusions."Possible lawsuit, alleging wrongful deathThe family could file a wrongful death lawsuit against Wilson and the Ferguson Police Department, Callan said.Crump told "AC360" that the family is considering the option of civil remedies to obtain "some sense of justice."Callan said Brown's family could file a lawsuit under Section 1983 of Title 42 of the U.S. Code -- a federal statute that permits damages against state officials for violations of legal or constitutional rights.But another CNN legal analyst, Mark O'Mara, said law enforcement officers are afforded certain legal protections.CNN commentator and legal analyst Mel Robbins said she expects the family to allege wrongful death and intentional infliction of emotional distress. They will allege that Wilson had no justification or was negligent in shooting Brown, she predicted.Such a lawsuit would likely include the fact that Brown's body was in the street for four hours after his killing.A push for change to the systemIn a video released last week by STLForward.com, Michael Brown Sr. thanked supporters for trying to end what he called racial profiling and police intimidation. But he asked for a calm response if there were no indictment."Hurting others or destroying property is not the answer. No matter what the grand jury decides, I do not want my son's death to be in vain. I want it to lead to incredible change, positive change. Change that makes the St. Louis region better for everyone."Late Monday, the family was away from the cameras, dealing with their disappointment. Before then, they encouraged the public "to work together to fix the system that allowed this to happen."St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney Robert McCulloch said physical and scientific evidence, along with witness statements, led to the grand jury's decision.Still, he acknowledged the Brown family's huge loss."My heart goes out to them. Regardless of the circumstances. They lost a young man, they lost a young life," McCulloch said.