Story highlights The DEA interviewed doctors and trainers for the San Francisco 49ersThere are reports other teams were questioned, but DEA declined to commentThe investigation stems from a lawsuit alleging illegal handling of prescription drugsThe NFL, already under fire for its handling of concussions and domestic violence, saw several teams visited by the Drug Enforcement Administration after their Sunday games.It follows yet another allegation that the nation's most popular sports league has less than the highest regard for its players' well-being, as team trainers are being accused of handing out prescription painkillers to keep players on the field.DEA agents interviewed doctors and trainers of several NFL teams after their games as part of an investigation into allegations of illegal dispensing of prescription drugs.The DEA questioned the medical and training staffs of the San Francisco 49ers following the team's 16-10 victory at the New York Giants, agency spokesman Rusty Payne told CNN.The 49ers cooperated with the "random inspection" at MetLife Stadium, the team's director of communications, Bob Lange, said. The team departed the stadium as scheduled, he added.Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Running back Marshawn Lynch of the Seattle Seahawks dives into the end zone for a touchdown during the fourth quarter against the New York Giants at CenturyLink Field in Seattle on Sunday, November 9. Seattle won 38-17. Hide Caption 1 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Ron Hainsey of the Carolina Hurricanes and Boone Jenner of the Columbus Blue Jackets collide during their game in Raleigh, North Carolina, on Friday, November 7. Carolina won 3-2 in overtime. Hide Caption 2 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – American golfer Bubba Watson celebrates after making a bunker shot on the 18th hole for eagle to win the WGC-HSBC Champions at the Sheshan International Golf Club in Shanghai, China, on Sunday, November 9. Hide Caption 3 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – A Baltimore Ravens cheerleader is tended to after falling during a game against the Tennessee Titans at M&T Bank Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland, on Sunday, November 9. Hide Caption 4 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Horses race out of the gates during the 2014 Crown Oaks at Flemington Racecourse in Melbourne, Australia, on Thursday, November 6. The race was won by Hugh Bowman riding Set Square. Hide Caption 5 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Ryan Houston of Team Alvimedica, left, gets the day started with some coffee on Wednesday, November 5, during the first leg of the Volvo Ocean Race between Alicante, Spain, and Cape Town, South Africa. The route spans some 39,379 nautical miles and visits 11 ports in 11 countries. Hide Caption 6 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Reggie Bonnafon of the Louisville Cardinals comes up short of the end zone as Justin Simmons of the Boston College Eagles defends in the second quarter at Alumni Stadium in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, on Saturday, November 8. The Cardinals won 38-19. Hide Caption 7 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Kyle Busch kisses his wife, Samantha, prior to the start of the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series Quicken Loans Race for Heroes 500 at the Phoenix International Raceway in Avondale, Arizona, on Sunday, November 9. Hide Caption 8 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Fans participate in a USAA Salute to Service stunt during the national anthem prior to the start of the NFL game between the Green Bay Packers and Chicago Bears on Sunday, November 9, at Lambeau Field in Green Bay, Wisconsin. The Packers won 55-14. Hide Caption 9 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Olympic sprinter Blake Leeper carries an Oakland Raiders flag during the team's game against the Denver Broncos on Sunday, November 9, at O.co Coliseum in Oakland, California. The Broncos won 41-17. Hide Caption 10 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Fans taunt David Williams of the Livingstone College Blue Bears as he prepares to inbound the ball against the Duke Blue Devils at Cameron Indoor Stadium in Durham, North Carolina, on Tuesday, November 4. Duke won 115-58. Hide Caption 11 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Rodrigo da Costa of Brazil, right, competes for the ball with Kirill Romanov of Russia during the 2014 Beach Soccer Intercontinental Cup final match in Dubai on Saturday, November 8. Brazil defeated Russia 3-2 in extra time. Hide Caption 12 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic celebrates during the Fed Cup final match against Angelique Kerber of Germany at O2 Arena in Prague, Czech Republic, on Sunday, November 9. The Czech Republic claimed its third Fed Cup title in four years. Hide Caption 13 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Manuel Neuer of Bayern Munich reacts during the UEFA Champions League Group E match against AS Roma at Allianz Arena in Munich, Germany, on Wednesday, November 5. Bayern beat Roma 2-0. Hide Caption 14 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – The Ospreys take on the Saracens in an LV Cup rugby match at The Gnoll in Neath, Wales, on Friday, November 7. Saracens won 21-9. Hide Caption 15 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Fernando Alonso of Spain drives during the Brazilian Formula One Grand Prix on Sunday, November 9, in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Hide Caption 16 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – St. Louis Rams tight end Jared Cook celebrates his touchdown catch with wide receiver Kenny Britt as Arizona Cardinals safety Rashad Johnson reacts in the second quarter at the University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale, Arizona, on Sunday, November 9. Arizona won 31-14. Hide Caption 17 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Marchant De Lange of South Africa bowls during Game 3 of the Men's International Twenty20 series between Australia and South Africa at ANZ Stadium in Sydney, Australia, on Sunday, November 9. Hide Caption 18 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Riley Sheahan of the Detroit Red Wings falls taking a shot against the New York Rangers at Madison Square Garden in New York on Wednesday, November 5. The Rangers won 4-3. Hide Caption 19 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Roger Federer of Switzerland plays against Milos Raonic of Canada in the round robin on Day 1 of the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals at O2 Arena in London on Sunday, November 9. Federer beat Raonic 6-1, 7-6. Hide Caption 20 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Bernd Nehrig of FC St. Pauli, left, and Marc Schnatterer of 1. FC Heidenheim compete for the ball during the Second Bundesliga match on Saturday, November 8, at Millerntor Stadium in Hamburg, Germany. Hide Caption 21 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Dave Attwood of England gets his protective head gear pulled by Samuel Whitelock of New Zealand during the QBE autumn international rugby match in London on Saturday, November 8. New Zealand won 24-21. Hide Caption 22 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Air Force defensive back Jordan Mays breaks up a pass behind wide receiver Devonte Boyd of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, on Saturday, November 8, in Las Vegas. The Air Force Falcons defeated the UNLV Rebels 48-21. Hide Caption 23 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Swedish handball player Fredrik Raahauge Petersen of Fuechse Berlin competes against TSG Friesenheim on Sunday, November 9, in Berlin, Germany. Hide Caption 24 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Arsenal's Danny Welbeck, second from right, challenges Anderlecht's Cyriac as Arsenal's goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny catches the ball during their Champions League match at the Emirates stadium in London on Tuesday, November 4. The game ended 3-3. Hide Caption 25 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – New York Jets free safety Jaiquawn Jarrett tackles Pittsburgh Steelers' Antonio Brown in the first half on Sunday, November 9, at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey. Hide Caption 26 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Andrew Shaw of the Chicago Blackhawks is sprayed with water during warm-ups before taking on the Washington Capitals on Friday, November 7, at the United Center in Chicago. The Capitals won 3-2. Hide Caption 27 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Cornerback Danny Gorrer of the Baltimore Ravens celebrates an interception in the fourth quarter against the Tennessee Titans at M&T Bank Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland, on Sunday, November 9. Hide Caption 28 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – William Rolle of France celebrates on his knees after defeating Magdy Hanafy of Egypt during their men's gold medal bout in the Karate World Championships at OVB-Arena in Bremen, Germany, on Saturday, November 8. Hide Caption 29 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Kentucky cornerback Cody Quinn, left, breaks up a pass intended for Georgia wide receiver Chris Conley at Commonwealth Stadium in Lexington, Kentucky, on Saturday, November 8. The Georgia Bulldogs beat the Kentucky Wildcats 63-31. Hide Caption 30 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Carlos of Atletico MG and Wallace of Flamengo battle for the ball during a 2014 Copa do Brasil match at Mineirao Stadium in Belo Horizonte, Brazil, on Wednesday, November 5. Hide Caption 31 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – John Tavares of the New York Islanders reaches for the puck with Jarret Stoll of the Los Angeles Kings during the third period at Staples Center in Los Angeles on Thursday, November 6. The Islanders won 2-1. Hide Caption 32 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Ross Pearson, left, of England and Al Iaquinta of the United States trade punches in their lightweight bout during the UFC Fight Night event on Saturday, November 8, at Allphones Arena in Sydney, Australia. Iaquinta won in the second round. Hide Caption 33 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Amari Cooper of the Alabama Crimson Tide fails to make a catch in the second quarter as Jalen Collins of the LSU Tigers defends on Saturday, November 8, at Tiger Stadium in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Alabama defeated LSU 20-13. Hide Caption 34 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Alexis Sanchez of Arsenal scores past Lukasz Fabianski of Swansea during a match in the Barclays Premier League at Liberty Stadium in Swansea, Wales, on Sunday, November 9. Swansea won 2-1. Hide Caption 35 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver James Wright, left, is unable to make a catch while being defended by Cleveland Browns cornerback Buster Skrine on Thursday, November 6, at Paul Brown Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio. The Browns won 24-3. Hide Caption 36 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Christiano DiGiacinto of the Windsor Spitfires dukes it out with Aiden Jamieson of the London Knights in an Ontario Hockey League game at Budweiser Gardens in London, Ontario, on Friday, November 7. The Knights defeated the Spitfires 5-3. Hide Caption 37 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Michigan Wolverines running back De'Veon Smith scores a touchdown against the Northwestern Wildcats in the second half at Ryan Field in Evanston, Illinois, on Saturday, November 8. Michigan won 10-9. Hide Caption 38 of 39 Photos: What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos What a shot! 39 amazing sports photos – Gareth Bale of Real Madrid celebrates after scoring the opening goal during a La Liga match at Estadio Santiago Bernabeu in Mardid, Spain, on Saturday, November 8. Hide Caption 39 of 39The Tampa Bay Buccaneers announced via Twitter that the DEA "checked in" with the team at the Baltimore-Washington International Airport. After a five-minute delay, the team proceeded to its plane without incident, the team said.A Justice Department official told CNN that DEA agents interviewed team doctors at "several locations."The DEA investigation stems from allegations in a lawsuit filed by 1,300 former NFL players that the league illegally provided powerful painkillers and other prescription drugs to keep them on the field.The class-action lawsuit was filed in California in May.Other allegations include that drugs were being administered by staff -- specifically athletic trainers -- lacking the licenses to do so. If true, these actions would violate the Controlled Substances Act.Sunday's questioning of doctors and trainers was administrative and not criminal, Payne said. No arrests were made, he said."Our teams cooperated with the DEA today, and we have no information to indicate that irregularities were found," said Brian McCarthy, the NFL's vice president of corporate communications.The players' suit accuses NFL trainers of handing out pills without prescriptions and without regard to possible dangerous interactions with other drugs.The named players in the lawsuit include former Chicago Bears quarterback Jim McMahon who, according to the lawsuit, says he got hooked on painkillers by taking as many as 100 Percocet pills a month.