Story highlights Susan Green's father was black, her mother was white when they married in 1961She says they wed despite pressure not to do so as an interracial coupleGreen is now married to her partner, but their same-sex marriage isn't valid in ArizonaHer parents' story encourages her to keep fighting for equal rightsMore than 50 years ago, military brass sat down the couple who'd become Susan Green's parents.They told them how horrible it would be if a black man and a white woman wed at a time when interracial marriage was illegal in parts of the United States.They did it anyway.Six years later, in 1967, they celebrated when the Supreme Court ruled in Loving v. Virginia that no state could stop different races from marrying.For years, Susan Green knew their anguish, their struggle, their determination.Phillips and Green are all smiles as they celebrate their wedding in 2010 in Provincetown, Massachusetts.Today, she knows their joy.Green thought of her parents three years ago as she tearfully filled out a license to wed her partner Robin Phillips in Provincetown, Massachusetts. The seaside enclave was more than 2,500 miles away from their home state of Arizona, where same-sex marriage has been banned.She cried more tears of joy Wednesday, when the Supreme Court struck down part of the Defense of Marriage Act in ruling the federal government cannot treat legally married gay and lesbian couples differently from heterosexual ones."This must have been what Mom and Dad felt like when the Loving case was decided," Green said. "It was the beginning, and it was the acknowledgment they had the right to marry, they had the right to be together."JUST WATCHED Sullivan: Incredibly long struggle Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sullivan: Incredibly long struggle 08:08JUST WATCHED Olson: Supreme Court ruling is a victory Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Olson: Supreme Court ruling is a victory 03:04JUST WATCHED Perkins: Marriage debate 'far from over' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Perkins: Marriage debate 'far from over' 02:30Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Julia Tate, left, kisses her wife, Lisa McMillin, in Nashville, Tennessee, after the reading the results of the Supreme Court rulings on same-sex marriage on Wednesday, June 26. The high court struck down key parts of the Defense of Marriage Act and cleared the way for same-sex marriages to resume in California by rejecting an appeal on the state's Proposition 8 Hide Caption 1 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Jeff Zarrillo, center, and Paul Katami, right, plaintiffs in the California case against Proposition 8, wipe away tears after departing the Supreme Court in Washington. Katami proposed to Zarrillo on national news after the ruling. Hide Caption 2 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – The New Yorker's next issue features artwork by Jack Hunter in reaction to the Supreme Court's rulings. Hide Caption 3 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Erin Raskauskas Jr. shows off the autograph he got from attorney David Boies on a copy of the Proposition 8 ruling outside of the Supreme Court in Washington. Hide Caption 4 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Same-sex marriage proponent Ryan Clarke reads news updates on the rulings outside of the Supreme Court. Hide Caption 5 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – With the Capitol in the background, the Gay Men's Choir of Washington performs outside of the Supreme Court in Washington. Hide Caption 6 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Richelle Spanover, right, celebrates at the Stonewall Inn in New York after the Supreme Court rulings. The Stonewall riots in 1969 sparked the modern gay rights movement. Hide Caption 7 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Chris Roe, left, and Roby Chavez celebrate while holding their soon-to-be-adopted children as the ruling is announced in San Francisco. Hide Caption 8 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Defense of Marriage Act plaintiff Edith Windsor speaks at a press conference at the LGBT Center in New York after hearing the Supreme Court rulings. Hide Caption 9 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Donna Red Wing, executive director of One Iowa, reacts to the Supreme Court rulings from Des Moines, Iowa. Hide Caption 10 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee, second from left, and Phyllis Lyon, center, celebrate at the mayor's office in San Francisco. Hide Caption 11 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – John Lewis, left, gets a kiss from his partner Stuart Gaffney at City Hall in San Francisco. Hide Caption 12 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – A crowd of people outside the Supreme Court in Washington react to the rulings. Hide Caption 13 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Supporters of same-sex marriage cheer at City Hall in San Francisco. Hide Caption 14 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – People in the crowd embrace outside the Supreme Court in Washington. Hide Caption 15 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Sue Rochman, center, and Robin Romdalvik celebrate with their son, Maddox Rochman-Romdalvik, at City Hall in San Francisco. Hide Caption 16 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – California Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom speaks during a rally in San Francisco after the Supreme Court decisions were announced. Hide Caption 17 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Patrons of the Stonewall Inn in New York gather to hear the Supreme Court rulings. Hide Caption 18 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Therese Stewart, the lead attorney on the Proposition 8 case in California, speaks at City Hall in San Francisco after the Supreme Court paved the way for same-sex marriage in the state. Hide Caption 19 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – A couple celebrates at City Hall in San Francisco. Hide Caption 20 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – Michael Knaapen, left, and his husband, John Becker, react to the rulings in Washington. Hide Caption 21 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – American University students Sharon Burk, left, and Molly Wagner embrace outside the Supreme Court. Hide Caption 22 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – A couple celebrates at City Hall in San Francisco after hearing the Supreme Court struck down parts of the Defense of Marriage Act. Hide Caption 23 of 24 Photos: Photos: Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings Reaction to same-sex marriage rulings – A gay rights supporter waves a flag outside City Hall in San Francisco ahead of the Supreme Court decisions on June 26. Hide Caption 24 of 24Green and Phillips haven't kept secret the fact they're lesbians, or that they're together. They joke about being the only married couple on the faculty at Arizona State University's Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication and are grateful for their colleagues support.It hasn't been easy, though.In November 2008, Arizona voters passed an amendment to the state constitution defining marriage as "only a union of one man and one woman."That meant -- as it does for others in 37 states where same-sex marriage is not or will soon not be legal -- Green and Phillips were, in legal terms, little more than roommates.Even after their Massachusetts nuptials, Green fought through health ailments and worried that if something happened to her, Phillips wouldn't get her Social Security benefits."As we start to get older and think about retirement and things like that, all of these issues come into play," Green said.Wednesday ended up being a "little crazy" in the best possible way with laughter, tears and relief.They breathed easier not having to worry about things that they might have the day before. They rejoiced the federal government finally will recognize their union as valid. They celebrated that gay rights had come so far, and that they'd been around to see it happen and to talk to the world about it."This is a great thing," Phillips said. "And it helps us share our stories."They've been doing that at Arizona State for years, where Green said students she's never met regularly show up at her door, asking for help figuring out how to come out to their families and friends.Others come to them fearful of getting outed at work, and theoretically fired, given that most states still don't have laws that prohibit terminating someone because they are gay or transgendered."I'm out, and I'm there for them," Green said. "... I serve in a lot of different ways."Having the chance to help people is one reason the pair wants to stay in Arizona.It may be easier to go elsewhere, to a state like New York or Washington, where there would be no questions about whether they'd get the same rights as heterosexual couples.Wednesday's Supreme Court ruling, notably, didn't mandate everyone recognize same-sex marriages: That's still up to the individual states. It doesn't change anything in Arizona, for instance.But Arizonans need to know that there are happy, productive same-sex couples in their midst, not for them all to go elsewhere, Green said. It's harder for them to be foreign or an unknown if they work down the hall, live down the block or shop at the same store.Besides, Green said, her parents didn't teach her to give up when they steadfastly insisted on getting married, whatever anyone else thought."Some states may be easier to live in," she said. "But I can't let my mom and dad down."