Story highlights Other fires burn in New Mexico and ColoradoResidents of two communities are allowed to return homeThe Powerhouse Fire is about 60% containedIt has destroyed some six homes and threatened up to 1,000Helped by higher humidity, firefighters battled back a wind-whipped wildfire in Southern California, clearing the way for many evacuated residents to return home.The Powerhouse Fire is burning in the Palmdale area north of Los Angeles. It has destroyed some six homes, threatened as many as 1,000, and grew to more than 32,000 acres as of late Monday, according to Lisa Lugo with the Angeles National Forest.Three people have been injured since the fire started last week, though it was not immediately clear how."So far things look much better than they did yesterday," incident commander Norm Walker told reporters."Last night, we increased the containment to 40%. We hope to bump that up considerably again tonight if conditions remain the same."Later, Lugo said that containment stood at 60%.Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – A helicopter drops fire retardant on a flareup of the Powerhouse Fire near Lake Hughes, California, on Monday, June 3. More than 2,000 firefighters are battling the blaze, which started on May 30 and has spread to more than 30,000 acres about 70 miles north of Los Angeles. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – A raven flies in front of a flareup that broke through a containment line on June 3. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – Firefighters watch a hillside burn near Lake Hughes on June 3. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – A helicopter fills up from Lake Hughes to battle the Powerhouse wildfire on June 3 in Palmdale. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – A firefighting helicopter drops fire retardant on a flareup on June 3. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – Sparks fly from a hollowed burning tree at the Powerhouse Fire on Sunday, June 2, near Lake Hughes, California. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – Firefighters move equipment to battle a fire in Lancaster, California, on June 2. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – A house near Lake Hughes burns in the Powerhouse Fire on June 2. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – Firefighters battle the flames near Lake Hughes on June 2. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – An electrical line pole burns in two pieces after the wildfire ripped through the area overnight in Lake Hughes on June 2. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – The ruins of a house destroyed in the Powerhouse Fire smolder on June 2 near Lake Hughes. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – Firefighters battle the Powerhouse wildfire at the Angeles National Forest on Saturday, June 1. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – Firefighters battle the Powerhouse wildfire at the Angeles National Forest on June 1. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – Hills glow with fire as the blaze sweeps through an area near Lake Hughes on June 1. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – Brush glows immediately after the main fire front sweeps through on its way toward Lake Hughes on June 1. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – A firefighter inspects the inside of a structure as the Powerhouse fire closes in around the Canyon Creek Complex sports camp south of Lake Hughes on June 2. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – Firefighters watch as the Powerhouse Fire bears down on them as it approaches Lake Hughes on June 1. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Wildfires in Southern California Wildfires in Southern California – A firefighter watches from a rooftop as the Powerhouse Fire nears the Canyon Creek Complex sports camp during south of Lake Hughes on June 1. Hide Caption 18 of 18JUST WATCHED Wildfires raging in three states Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wildfires raging in three states 03:57JUST WATCHED See what it's like to be a smokejumper Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See what it's like to be a smokejumper 01:37Residents who evacuated from the communities of Lake Hughes and Lake Elizabeth were allowed to return home.However, the community of Antelope Acres remained under a mandatory evacuation order.A shelter has opened for those with nowhere else to go.Helicopters helped firefighters by dropping retardant and water along the perimeter of the blaze."We want to take advantage of the high humidity, get in there and do a direct attack and do all we can to get some of these hot spots put out so it doesn't spread anymore," Los Angeles County Fire Capt. Mike McCormick told CNN affiliate KABCElsewhere in the West, a small fire burned in Jefferson County, Colorado, prompting evacuations, according to the Sheriff's Office there. No structures were lost.Another fire, north of Pecos, New Mexico, has scorched about 8,000 acres and forced the evacuation of about 100 summer homes, said Denise Ottaviano of New Mexico Fire Information.That fire, known as the Tres Lagunas Fire, is 5% contained. Officials believe it was ignited by a downed power line.