Story highlights Trudy Dawson lost her family home in Katrina, and her own home in a wildfire this weekFire is the worse of the two, Colorado woman says: "It was total destruction this time."She lost her possessions but has no regrets about evacuating when she didHer Colorado home destroyed by a natural disaster, Trudy Dawson stops to think about fire and water.She is thinking about the wildfire that reduced her house near Colorado Springs to ashes this week and about the water that Hurricane Katrina pushed into her childhood home eight years ago."I sit back and reflect on the difference between flood and fire," Dawson said.The 16,000-acre Black Forest Fire in Colorado claimed two lives and 500 structures.Comparing what she witnessed at her parents' home in New Orleans when it was flooded by Katrina and the fire that engulfed her own home, Dawson knows which is worse. The fire.Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Plumes of smoke rise above Del Norte Peak in Colorado on Sunday, June 23. Fires have been burning across Colorado since early June. Hide Caption 1 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Smoke fills the sky as dawn breaks near South Fork, Colorado, on Saturday, June 22. Hide Caption 2 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Colorado State Patrol Officer Jessie Bartunek speaks to a resident on the outskirts of South Fork on June 22. Hide Caption 3 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Firefighters monitor a wildfire in a residential area in South Fork on Friday, June 21. Hide Caption 4 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A photo taken by the Pike Interagency Hotshot Crew shows the West Fork Fire Complex, made up of the West Fork Fire and Windy Pass Fire, burning 15 miles north of Pagosa Springs, Colorado, on Thursday, June 20. Hide Caption 5 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – The West Fork Fire Complex burns 15 miles north of Pagosa Springs, on June 20, as a fire crew truck is parked nearby. Hide Caption 6 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Smoke from the West Fork Fire Complex consisting of the West Fork and Windy Pass fires fills the sky on June 20. Hide Caption 7 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A mix of smoke and storm clouds gathers in Colorado Springs, Colorado, on Friday, June 14, three days after two major wildfires burned through the area. Rain has aided firefighters in containing the fires. Hide Caption 8 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Bonnie Kruse hugs her husband, James Kruse, at a press conference in Colorado Springs on June 14. Hide Caption 9 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – El Paso County Sheriff Terry Maketa speaks during a press conference about the Black Forest fire on June 14 in Colorado Springs. County spokesman Dave Rose told CNN it appeared to be the most destructive in the history of Colorado. Hide Caption 10 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – An orange sky highlights a fire on Thursday, June 13, that has been burning since June 11 near Colorado Springs. Hide Caption 11 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – An aerial view on June 13 shows destroyed house and vehicles after the Black Forest Fire passed through Black Forest, Colorado. Hide Caption 12 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A Blackhawk helicopter patrols over the Black Forest Fire on June 13. Hide Caption 13 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A baseball game goes on despite a raging wildfire in Colorado on Wednesday, June 12. Hide Caption 14 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A firefighter fights a blaze near Black Forest, Colorado, on Wednesday, June 12. The Black Forest Fire is one of two major wildfires near Colorado Springs. The other, the Royal Gorge Fire, is threatening the Royal Gorge Suspension Bridge. Hide Caption 15 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Smoke billows from the Black Forest Fire near a house north of Colorado Springs on June 12. Hide Caption 16 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Smoke rises from the Black Forest Fire near Colorado Springs on June 12. Hide Caption 17 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Smoke covers the area on June 12. Hide Caption 18 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – High temperatures, dry brush and gusty winds are proving to be a catastrophic combination in central Colorado. Hide Caption 19 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – An airplane drops flame retardant over the Black Forest Fire on June 12 near Colorado Springs. Hide Caption 20 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Schad Dohl watches a wall of fire as it rages through the Black Forest near Colorado Springs on Wednesday, June 12. Hide Caption 21 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A house burns late in the evening on Tuesday, June 11, northeast of Colorado Springs. Hide Caption 22 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Firefighters from the Black Forest Fire Department race toward a burning home near Colorado Springs on June 11. Hide Caption 23 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A house burns near Colorado Springs on June 11. Hide Caption 24 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – El Paso County Sheriff's Deputy Dan Cukowski helps Linda Davies walk her livestock out from the evacuated area in Colorado Springs on June 11. Hide Caption 25 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Andrew Dunlap and his father, Dave Dunlap, watch as a wildfire burns behind their house in Colorado Springs on June 11. Hide Caption 26 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Motorists stop along Interquest Parkway in Colorado Springs on June 11 to watch the advance of a wildfire burning in the Black Forest. Hide Caption 27 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – Lynd Fitzgerald sprays fire retardant around a house in Colorado Springs on June 11. Hide Caption 28 of 29 Photos: Photos: Wildfires spread across Colorado Wildfires spread across Colorado – A wildfire burns in the Black Forest near Colorado Springs on June 11. Hide Caption 29 of 29JUST WATCHED Colorado family endures after wildfires Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Colorado family endures after wildfires 01:58JUST WATCHED Crews gaining ground on deadly wildfires Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Crews gaining ground on deadly wildfires 01:53JUST WATCHED Deciding when to let a house burn Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Deciding when to let a house burn 02:19With the flood, her family was able to salvage many items, even if they were waterlogged. The structure still stood."It was total destruction this time," she said of her Colorado home. "Everything was ashes. We were told by the fire chief that the intensity of the heat made my three-story house collapse."Dawson, a psychotherapist, was at work on Monday when her daughter, who happened to be in town, alerted her to the fire.Dawson got to her house in time to see the plumes of smoke and to receive the reverse-911 call to evacuate.She gave herself 30 minutes to get out.She and her daughter started with the electronics -- the computers and tablets that hold important records. Then the physical documents in her possession.Time was ticking. They started grabbing clothes from the closets, not really paying attention to whether the items would actually be helpful."Emotions override any logic at that point," she said.Dawson has two cats but could find only one. She had no way to transport the two horses she owns. She had to leave.The horses survived, but every day Dawson remembers another special item that disappeared in the fire. She thinks: If she had just spent a few more minutes at her home, she could have saved some more treasured possessions.But, she has heard, the two victims who perished had waited too long to evacuate, possibly trying to save those memorable items.Thinking back to Katrina, Dawson recalls the look in her parents' eyes when they returned to their flooded home to see their losses.There were six inches of sludge on the floor, and the family entered with boots and gloves, looking at what survived.They found her father's World War II medals. And a china doll that had fallen from its case to the ground but had not broken. The story of the doll, which they named Katrina, was even featured in the Wall Street Journal. The doll still holds water that seeped in during the time it was submerged.After this week's fire, though, there was nothing left of her house. Just a foundation and ashes."We walked around the house in amazement and horrified at what we saw," she said.Beyond reflecting on the destructive powers of water and fire, however, Dawson is unwavering on her next step.She will rebuild.