Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – First lady Michelle Obama, President Barack Obama, former first lady Barbara Bush, former President George H.W. Bush and former President George W. Bush attend the opening ceremony of the George W. Bush Presidential Center on Thursday, April 25, 2013 in Dallas. Republicans and Democrats alike and world leaders were in attendance during the official dedication of the facility. Hide Caption 1 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Former President George W. Bush holds back tears as he finishes his speech. Hide Caption 2 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Former president George W. Bush, center, speaks to the crowd at the opening ceremony of the George W. Bush Presidential Center, flanked, left to right, by first lady Michelle Obama, President Barack Obama, former first lady Barbara Bush, former President George H.W. Bush, former first lady Laura Bush, former President Bill Clinton, former first lady Hillary Clinton, former President Jimmy Carter and former first lady Rosalynn Carter. Hide Caption 3 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – George W. Bush gestures a "W" to the crowd after speaking. Hide Caption 4 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – George W. Bush hugs his wife Laura after speaking. Hide Caption 5 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Left to right: Former President Bill Clinton, former first lady Hillary Clinton, former President Jimmy Carter and former first lady Rosalynn Carter listen during the opening ceremony. Hide Caption 6 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Former President George W. Bush and former first lady Laura Bush laugh during former President Bill Clinton's speech. Hide Caption 7 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – President Obama speaks with former first lady Barbara Bush during the ceremony. Hide Caption 8 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, center, attends the ceremony. Hide Caption 9 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – President Barack Obama speaks during the opening ceremony. Hide Caption 10 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Former UK Prime Minister Tony Blair attends the ceremony. Hide Caption 11 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Left to right: former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, former Vice President Dick Cheney, Jenna Bush Hager, her husband Henry Hager, Barbara Bush, Miky Febrega, and former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush sing the national anthem at the ceremony. Hide Caption 12 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – President Barack Obama and former presidents George W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George H.W. Bush and Jimmy Carter arrive on stage for the George W. Bush Presidential Center dedication ceremony. Hide Caption 13 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – George W. Bush's daughter Jenna Bush Hager, her husband Henry Hager, sister Barbara Bush, her boyfriend Miky Fabrega, former governor of Florida Jeb Bush, and his wife Columba Bush attend the opening ceremony. Hide Caption 14 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Boots commemorate George W. Bush's tenure as general managing partner of the Texas Rangers. Hide Caption 15 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete presented this lion, here presented at the library, to George W. Bush during his trip to Africa in 2008. Hide Caption 16 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – A pistol captured with Saddam Hussein on December, 13, 2003, is displayed at the Center. Hide Caption 17 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – This display relates to the Bush administration's faith-based and community initiative. Hide Caption 18 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – A security guard stands in front of the George W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum, part of the George W. Bush Presidential Center on the Southern Methodist University campus in Dallas, on Tuesday, April 16. Hide Caption 19 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Steel beams from the World Trade Center are displayed in the September 11 portion of the George W. Bush Presidential Center on Wednesday, April 24. Hide Caption 20 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Patricia Flynn shows off the interactive table of conflicts in the Middle East. Hide Caption 21 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Former first lady Laura Bush and Alan Lowe, director of the George W. Bush Presidential Library, arrive to speak to media during a tour of the center. Hide Caption 22 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – A photographer makes a photo of the two bronze statues of former Presidents George W. Bush and his father, George H.W. Bush, in a courtyard at the Center. Hide Caption 23 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Members of the media shoot video inside a recreated White House Oval Office during a tour of the George W. Bush Presidential Center. Hide Caption 24 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – President George W. Bush's baseball collection is on display in the center. Hide Caption 25 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – The entrance to the museum as seen on April 24, the day before its dedication. Hide Caption 26 of 28Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – President Bush's and first lady Laura Bush's jackets for Air Force One are on display. Hide Caption 27 of 28