Photos: Photos: Philadelphia building collapse Photos: Philadelphia building collapse – Sean Benschop turned himself in to Philadelphia Police on Saturday, June 8. The 42-year-old crane operator was wanted on involuntary manslaughter and other charges tied to the deadly Philadelphia building collapse on June 5. Hide Caption 1 of 13Photos: Photos: Philadelphia building collapse Philadelphia building collapse – Firefighters search through the rubble of a collapsed building in Philadelphia after an apparent demolition accident on Wednesday, June 5. Hide Caption 2 of 13Photos: Photos: Philadelphia building collapse Philadelphia building collapse – Firefighters sort through the rubble on 22nd and Market Street in Philadelphia, on June 5. Hide Caption 3 of 13Photos: Photos: Philadelphia building collapse Philadelphia building collapse – Firefighters carry a survivor from the rubble. Hide Caption 4 of 13Photos: Photos: Philadelphia building collapse Philadelphia building collapse – Emergency personnel work to pull a survivor from the rubble. Hide Caption 5 of 13Photos: Photos: Philadelphia building collapse Philadelphia building collapse – iReporter Boskie Shah, a student at Drexel University, was walking down 22nd street in Philadelphia when he saw the building collapse. Hide Caption 6 of 13Photos: Photos: Philadelphia building collapse Philadelphia building collapse – The four-story building was in the process of being demolished when it apparently fell onto a Salvation Army store about 10:45 a.m Wednesday morning. Hide Caption 7 of 13Photos: Photos: Philadelphia building collapse Philadelphia building collapse – Rescue workers comb through the debris as they search for survivors. Hide Caption 8 of 13Photos: Photos: Philadelphia building collapse Philadelphia building collapse – Emergency personnel load an injured person into an ambulance. Hide Caption 9 of 13Photos: Photos: Philadelphia building collapse Philadelphia building collapse – Firefighters search through the rubble looking for survivors. Hide Caption 10 of 13Photos: Photos: Philadelphia building collapse Philadelphia building collapse – An injured woman is taken to an ambulance after the building collapse. Hide Caption 11 of 13Photos: Photos: Philadelphia building collapse Philadelphia building collapse – iReporter Mike Adam shot this photo of the collapse from his apartment building across the street. Hide Caption 12 of 13