June 12 is the 46th anniversary of Loving v. Virginia , which made interracial marriage legal in the United States. Thousands of people nationwide celebrate that anniversary as “ Loving Day '. Ken Tanabe is the founder and president of Loving Day, an international, annual celebration that aims to build multicultural community and fight racial prejudice through education. He is a speaker on multiracial identity, community organizing and social change through design.By Ken Tanabe, Special to CNN(CNN) -- Racism is alive and well in 2013, and what’s striking is the recent notable examples aimed at interracial couples -- or one of their children.There is nothing out of the ordinary about the commercial, except that the parents happen to be an interracial couple.But the truth is, racially blended families are becoming more ordinary every day, due to the 1967 Supreme Court decision that declared all laws against interracial marriage unconstitutionalWhile the negative comments about the Cheerios commercial made it newsworthy, there were also many others who showed their support for the Cheerios brand.The weddings of two multiracial couples from high-profile families also prompted racist comments online. Lindsay Marie Boehner, daughter of House Speaker John Boehner, married Dominic Lakhan, a black Jamaican man. And Jack McCain, son of Sen. John McCain, married Renee Swift, a woman of color.The reaction to these marriages is reminiscent of the response to the marriage of Peggy Rusk – the daughter of then-Secretary of State Dean Rusk – and Guy Smith, a black man. In 1967, their interracial marriage was a cover story , several months after laws against interracial marriage were struck down.Things have changed since then, but not enough.In a 2011 Gallup poll, 86% of Americans approved of “marriage between blacks and whites .” In 1958, the approval rating was 4%. But it makes me wonder: What do the other 14% of Americans think? Apparently, many of them spend a lot of time leaving comments online.The election of Barack Obama inspired many of us to hope that widespread racism was a relic of the past.And while he was elected to a second term, we must not be complacent when it comes to racism in our daily lives. We must seek out opportunities to educate others about the history of our civil rights.Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. wished that his children would “ one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character .” I wonder what he would think of our collective progress as the 50th anniversary of his "I Have a Dream" speech approaches.On June 15, the 10th annual Loving Day Flagship Celebration in New York City will draw an expected 1,500 guests. And while many participants are multiracial, anyone can host a Loving Day Celebration for friends and family, and make it a part of their annual traditions.We need to work collectively to fight prejudice through education and build a strong sense of multiethnic community. If we do, one day we might live in a nation where the racial identities of politicians’ children's spouses are no longer national news, and cereal commercials are more about cereal than race.The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Ken Tanabe.