Story highlights Three children suffered fingertip amputations in the strollers made by KolcraftAbout 36,000 of the strollers were sold in the United States and Canada, officials sayKolcraft Contours Options three- and four-wheeled strollers are involved in the recallReports of amputations and smashed fingers have prompted federal officials to recall a popular stroller sold in the United States.Three children suffered fingertip amputations, and two adults reported smashing their fingers in the stroller made by Kolcraft.Approximately 36,000 defective strollers were sold in the United States and Canada between January 2006 and June 2012, according to the Consumer Product Safety Commission. Children and adults have had their fingers caught in the opening formed when locking and unlocking the hinge mechanism on the stroller, according to the commission.JUST WATCHED B.O.B. jogging strollers recalled Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH B.O.B. jogging strollers recalled 01:04JUST WATCHED Runaway stroller rolls into busy street Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Runaway stroller rolls into busy street 00:48JUST WATCHED Stroller sets up with touch of a button Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Stroller sets up with touch of a button 01:52The recall involves the Kolcraft Contours Options three- and four-wheeled strollers. Strollers included in the recall have model numbers starting with ZL002, ZL005, ZL008, ZL015 and ZL018. On the ZL002 model, the number and date of manufacture is printed on a sticker above the left wheel. On the ZL005, ZL008, ZL015 and ZL018 models, the model number and date of manufacture is printed on a label sewn into the edge of back of the stroller seat pad.Manufactured in China, and sold nationwide at children's specialty stores and online at various retailers, the strollers cost between $150 and $160, according to a statement released by the safety commission.Repair kits are being made available to owners of the specific models identified. Consumers are urged not to use the stroller and contact Kolcraft for more information on the recall.