Story highlights Kari Greer shoots wildland fire photos for National Interagency Fire Center"The bug bit and I developed a kind of passion for it," she saysWhile on the job, she usually sleeps in a tent and works a 16-hour dayFor 15 years Kari Greer has been documenting wildland fires and the men and woman who battle them."I'm a trained firefighter; photography is my tool," she says. "It's my service on the line."In college Greer studied photography but spent her summers fighting wildland fires as a seasonal firefighter. After graduation it was an easy fit to combine her two skill sets."The bug bit, and I developed a kind of passion for it."She now photographs fires from the front lines under contract with the National Interagency Fire Center , the federal outfit that supports wildland firefighting efforts.JUST WATCHED Wildfire photographer works amid chaos Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wildfire photographer works amid chaos 01:06Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – A firefighter works a burnout operation on the north flank of the Fontenelle Fire outside Big Piney, Wyoming, on Wednesday, July 4. More than 800 firefighters are working 15-hour shifts battling the fire that has exceeded 56,000 acres, according to fire information services. Hide Caption 1 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Trees smolder and burn on the north flank of the Fontenelle Fire. The crews are working and sleeping close to the fire in an effort to contain it. Hide Caption 2 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Firefighter Ryan Christian sits with his crew from Alaska before heading out to fight the Fontenelle Fire outside Big Piney. The blaze, burning in dead and thick stands of timber, started on June 24 and is 15% contained. Hide Caption 3 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Firefighter Alex Abols monitors fire on the north flank of the Fontenelle Fire outside Big Piney. Record fire danger and long stretches of the red flag warning days have made it challenging to control. Hide Caption 4 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – A utilities worker walks past the skeleton of a vehicle on Monday, July 2, while searching for gas leaks in a Colorado Springs community ravaged by the Waldo Canyon Fire. Hide Caption 5 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – An American flag waves Monday in front of a house leveled by the Waldo Canyon Fire in Colorado Springs. Residents began returnning to the area on Sunday after the fire forced thousands of people from their homes. Hide Caption 6 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – The words "We Will Rebuild" are seen written on the sidewalk in front of a house in Colorado Springs that was destroyed by the fire. Hide Caption 7 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Fire-destroyed homes are seen in the Mountain Shadows neighborhood in Colorado Springs, where hundreds of residents were given an eight-hour window to visit their properties on Sunday, July 1. Hide Caption 8 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – A jogger on Sunday looks out over neighborhoods in Colorado Springs that were evacuated due to the Waldo Canyon Fire. The massive fire has destroyed hundreds of homes and forced more than 32,000 people to flee. Hide Caption 9 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Frank Baker visits the remains of his brother's home in Bellvue, Colorado, on Saturday, June 30. The house was burned to the ground in the High Park Fire. Hide Caption 10 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Homes destroyed by the Waldo Canyon Fire are seen from the air in a Colorado Springs neighborhood on Saturday. Hide Caption 11 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Damaged cars line the curb in front of ruined houses in Colorado Springs. Hide Caption 12 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – The line of fire damage is clearly visible in this Colorado Springs neighborhood. Hide Caption 13 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Smoke billows at sunrise from part of the Waldo Canyon fire in Colorado Springs. Hide Caption 14 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – One home stands surrounded by others destroyed by the Waldo Canyon fire in Colorado Springs on Saturday. Hide Caption 15 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Homes burned to the ground by the Waldo Canyon fire are seen in a neighborhood in Colorado Springs on Saturday. Hide Caption 16 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – The fire, which has burned more than 15,000 acres, began spreading to the southwestern corner of the Air Force Academy in the early morning, causing base officials to evacuate residents. Hide Caption 17 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – President Barack Obama tours fire damage with elected officials and firefighters in the Mountain Shadows residential neighborhood in Colorado Springs on Friday. Hide Caption 18 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Firefighters get ready to tackle the Waldo Canyon Fire on Friday. Hide Caption 19 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – A house is engulfed in flames as fire crews fight to contain it at the Rose Crest fire in Herriman, Utah, on Friday, June 29. Crews are fighting to contain six separate blazes in the state. Hide Caption 20 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – A pig is evacuated in a wheelbarrow from the Ching Family Animal Refuge in Herriman, Utah, as the wildfires worsen on Friday. Hide Caption 21 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Melissa Bowman, a CNN iReporter from Big Piney, Wyoming, captures the Fontenelle Fire close to her home as she waits for an evacuation notice. Hide Caption 22 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – A camp for firefighters is set up at Holmes Middle School in Colorado Springs on Thursday, June 28. The Waldo Canyon Fire has scorched more than 16,700 acres. Hide Caption 23 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – A partially burned home smolders Thursday in Colorado Springs. Hide Caption 24 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – The line where the Waldo Canyon Fire stopped moving east is seen from the air in Colorado Springs. Lower temperatures and lighter winds helped firefighters on Thursday in the battle against the fire. Hide Caption 25 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – An aerial view of a destroyed neighborhood in the aftermath of the Waldo Canyon fire in Colorado Springs. Hide Caption 26 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – The Waldo Canyon fire spreads through a neighborhood in the hills above Colorado Springs on June 26. See more photos at The Denver Post Hide Caption 27 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Hazy smoke from the Waldo Canyon Fire looms behind the Air Force Academy stadium on Wednesday, June 27, in Colorado Springs, Colorado. The fire expanded to 15,000 acres. More than 32,000 people have been evacuated. Hide Caption 28 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Susan Custer and her husband, Gary Custer, watch the Waldo Canyon Fire on Wednesday. Hide Caption 29 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – At dawn on Tuesday, firefighters stir from their tents at a camp near Holmes Middle School. Hide Caption 30 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Smoke billows from the Waldo Canyon Fire west of Colorado Springs on Tuesday. Hide Caption 31 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Evacuees drive under a shroud of smoke from the Waldo Canyon Fire on Tuesday. Hide Caption 32 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – J'Amie Sirvaitis of Colorado Springs watches the Waldo Canyon Fire after winds pushed the fire into the Mountain Shadows neighborhood in Colorado Springs on Tuesday. Hide Caption 33 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Residents of Colorado Springs watch as the Waldo Canyon Fire burns a home in the Mountain Shadows neighborhood on Tuesday. Hide Caption 34 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Smoke from the Waldo Canyon Fire engulfs Interstate 25 north of Colorado Springs, Colorado, as the blaze burns out of control Tuesday. Hide Caption 35 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – A large plume of smoke from the Waldo Canyon Fire fills the sky west of Colorado Springs on Tuesday. Hide Caption 36 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Jan Stone, right, comforts Angela Morgan as smoke from the Waldo Canyon Fire pours over the Mountain Shadows neighborhood of Colorado Springs on Tuesday. Hide Caption 37 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – A portion of the Waldo Canyon Fire moves across a hillside above a subdivision west of Colorado Springs on Tuesday. Hide Caption 38 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Colorado State Patrol and Colorado Department of Transportation personnel set up a roadblock west of Manitou Springs, Colorado, on Monday, June 25. Hide Caption 39 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – A portion of the Waldo Canyon fire burns out of control in the hills west of Manitou Springs on Monday. Hide Caption 40 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Trees burn on a ridge above Cedar Heights in Colorado Springs, Colorado, on June 24. Hide Caption 41 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Greg and Karen Bodine help her father, Duane Schormann, left, load his animals into a trailer near Colorado Springs as they evacuate the area June 24. Hide Caption 42 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – The High Park Fire, which was 45% contained as of June 23, has destroyed 191 homes west of Fort Collins. Hide Caption 43 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – The High Park Fire rages through the forest west of Fort Collins, Colorado, on June 19. Hide Caption 44 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Local resident Dwayne Crawford looks out at the High Park Fire from his home west of Fort Collins on June 19. Hide Caption 45 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – A heavy air tanker drops fire retardant on the blaze June 19. Its growth potential was "extreme," according to authorities. Hide Caption 46 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Flames scorched this area outside of Fort Collins where the High Park Fire has burned out, June 19. Hide Caption 47 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – A helicopter drops water over the Wood Hollow Fire north of Fairview, Utah, on Tuesday, June 26 Hide Caption 48 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – A wall of fire makes its way down a hillside toward a farm north of Fairview, Utah, on Tuesday, June 26. The Wood Hollow Fire, one of at least three wildfires burning in Utah, has grown to nearly 39,000 acres. Hide Caption 49 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Smoldering earth and damage from the Dump Fire, which began June 21, can be seen outside a plant near Saratoga Springs, Utah, on Saturday, June 23. Hide Caption 50 of 51 Photos: Photos: Wildfires devastate Western states Wildfires devastate Western states – Burned-out terrain from the Dump Fire fills a hillside near Saratoga Springs, Utah on Saturday. Hide Caption 51 of 51JUST WATCHED Couple flees wildfire, at a cost Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Couple flees wildfire, at a cost 01:41"There are many tools in the tool box for fighting fire and showing what fire is all about," Greer says. "It's kind of a mysterious creature. My tool is that I'm able to document that and present it to the people, to the public. When the fire is going on in their backyard, they are able to see what's happening, what's really going on out there."As a fully certified wildland firefighter, Greer is able to safely move throughout an active fire to places most photographers could not safely travel.Like the rest of the firefighters she sleeps in a tent and generally works a 16-hour day, often for weeks at a time.She carries her Olympus E-3 camera and the rest of her photo gear and a full complement of safety equipment, including a fire shelter -- last ditch protection should fire overtake her team."When I'm in the middle of an active fire -- right over the shoulder of a firefighter who is actively fighting that fire -- I feel like I'm right there with him experiencing it, and my whole focus is to show the activity what's going on," says Greer. "Why are they doing this, how are they doing this? I feel the heat, I feel the smoke, my eyes are watering with everybody else's and I'm sweating, probably pretty badly, and getting very nice and dirty.""My whole focus is to show the activity -- what's going on," says Greer. "I feel the heat, I feel the smoke."There is an easy camaraderie among the firefighters -- often captured in Greer's photos. Despite the hard work and brutal conditions it's not uncommon to see firefighters smiling and enjoying each other's company in the middle of a fire, even as they remain focused on their work and staying safe."It's kind of a nice brotherhood and sisterhood," she says. "It's like a family. You'll see people you see maybe once in five years. You'll run into them in one corner of the country and five years later you'll see them again, and it's like you pick right back up where you left off."There are two sets of characters in Greer's photos: the fire and the firefighters. The good guys against the bad guy.The intensity of the fire comes through in her photos, but so does the passion, skill and commitment of the firefighters."I think it helps people develop an understanding of the situation and how firefighters are working," says Greer. "They are highly trained doing a job that is difficult in a chaotic situation and they are doing their very best to manage it."