Story highlights Space Shuttle Enterprise is hoisted by crane into its new homeIt will be on display at New York's Intrepid Sea, Air and Space MuseumThe Enterprise was a training vehicle; it never flew in spaceThe Space Shuttle Enterprise made its final descent Wednesday, landing at its new home at New York City's Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum.Though it never traveled into outer space, the Enterprise did make its way from a Smithsonian Institution museum near Washington, above the New York skyline mounted atop a 747 jumbo jet, and up the Hudson River by barge to the museum where it will be displayed for the public.On Wednesday, the shuttle was hoisted by crane and then lowered onto the flight deck of the Intrepid, the decommissioned U.S. aircraft carrier that has been transformed into a museum.As the shuttle moved through the waterways of Lower Manhattan, it made an appearance near the Statue of Liberty.A wingtip of the shuttle was damaged slightly on Sunday during its transit from John F. Kennedy Airport to Weeks Marine in Jersey City, New Jersey, where it was held until Tuesday, according to a statement by Intrepid museum officials. It has since been repaired.The shuttle was on display at a Smithsonian Institution museum before being flown from Virginia's Dulles International Airport on April 27 and making its final flight to New York's John F. Kennedy Airport.Photos: Photos: Enterprise in the Big Apple Photos: Photos: Enterprise in the Big Apple Shuttle Enterprise in the Big Apple – A barge carries the Space Shuttle Enterprise past the Statue of Liberty in New York Harbor on Wednesday, June 6. The shuttle is on its way to the USS Intrepid Museum, where it will be on display aboard the former aircraft carrier. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Photos: Enterprise in the Big Apple Shuttle Enterprise in the Big Apple – Boats surround the Enterprise as it makes its way up the Hudson River. The shuttle was flown into JFK on the back of a 747 on April 27. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Photos: Enterprise in the Big Apple Shuttle Enterprise in the Big Apple – The Enterprise is seen from a busy New York street as it is carried up the river Wednesday. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Photos: Enterprise in the Big Apple Shuttle Enterprise in the Big Apple – The final leg of the shuttle's journey to the USS Intrepid Museum was scheduled for Tuesday but delayed because of bad weather. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Photos: Enterprise in the Big Apple Shuttle Enterprise in the Big Apple – The shuttle passes by the New York skyline on Wednesday. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Photos: Enterprise in the Big Apple Shuttle Enterprise in the Big Apple – The Enterprise will be hoisted by crane onto the flight deck of the Intrepid. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Photos: Enterprise in the Big Apple Shuttle Enterprise in the Big Apple – NASA's space shuttle program ended last year, 30 years after it began. The Enterprise was never launched into space. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Photos: Enterprise in the Big Apple Shuttle Enterprise in the Big Apple – Enterprise floats head-on toward the Intrepid Sea. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Photos: Enterprise in the Big Apple Shuttle Enterprise in the Big Apple – A giant crane carefully swings the Enterprise from the barge that transported it down the Hudson River toward the Intrepid. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Photos: Enterprise in the Big Apple Shuttle Enterprise in the Big Apple – The Enterprise is carefully lowered onto the flight deck of the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum, its final resting place. Hide Caption 10 of 10JUST WATCHED Shuttle Enterprise makes final journey Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shuttle Enterprise makes final journey 03:23Discovery -- the most traveled of the shuttles -- is replacing Enterprise in the Smithsonian facility.Completed in 1976, Enterprise was designed as a prototype test vehicle. Test pilots demonstrated that it could fly and land in the atmosphere like airplanes, but the Enterprise never flew in space.The shuttle was originally to be named the Constitution, but a write-in campaign by fans of the television series "Star Trek" persuaded officials to rename it in honor of the show's main starship.NASA sent the shuttle on a tour of Europe and Canada in 1983, and it appeared at the 1984 World's Fair in New Orleans. The craft made a brief return to service as a ground test vehicle in 1984 before retiring to the Smithsonian's collection in 1985.NASA is preparing to fly Space Shuttle Endeavour to Los Angeles sometime in the second half of the year. The final remaining shuttle, Atlantis, is being readied for display at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor Complex in Florida.The other two shuttles in the NASA program, Challenger and Columbia, were destroyed in flight.