Story highlights More than half of NYC adults are overweight, Mayor Bloomberg says"This is something we think we have the legal authority to do," Bloomberg saysNew Yorkers are "much smarter" than health officials believe, Coca-Cola saysIndustry spokesman: Such drinks "are a small and declining part of the American diet"New York City officials are proposing banning the sale of large-size sodas and other sugary beverages at restaurants and food carts."More than half of NYC adults (58%) are overweight or obese," Mayor Michael Bloomberg tweeted Thursday. "We're doing something about it."The ban would outlaw such drinks larger than 16 ounces at restaurants, food carts and any other establishments that receive letter grades for food service. It would not apply to grocery stores.Critics -- including McDonald's and Coca-Cola, which stand to be hurt by the proposal -- quickly assailed it as "misguided" and "arbitrary."The New York City Department of Health will submit the measure to the Board of Health on June 12. There will then be a three-month comment period before the board votes on the proposal, officials said.Photos: Bloomberg's bans: Salt, sodas, smoking Photos: Bloomberg's bans: Salt, sodas, smoking Salt, sodas, smoking: Bloomberg's bans – Michael Bloomberg has been mayor of New York since 2002. While he has implemented changes in all areas of life for New Yorkers, his policies concerning health have caused the most controversy. Here are some of his most memorable health proposals, not all of which were enacted: Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Bloomberg's bans: Salt, sodas, smoking Salt, sodas, smoking: Bloomberg's bans – Bloomberg had a new target during his final State of the City speech on February 14: plastic foam containers. His proposed ban would target certain polystyrene foam products, not necessarily Styrofoam, a trademarked product of Dow Chemical Co., used in foam insulation and construction products. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Bloomberg's bans: Salt, sodas, smoking Ban on big sugary drinks – New York City's Board of Health voted to ban the sale of sugary drinks in containers larger than 16 ounces in restaurants and other venues, in a move meant to combat obesity and encourage healthier lifestyles. State Supreme Court Justice Milton Tingling has since blocked the city's restrictions, although Bloomberg is appealing. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Bloomberg's bans: Salt, sodas, smoking No sodas with food stamps – Before the big sugary drink ban proposal, Bloomberg in 2010 urged the U.S. Department of Agriculture to exclude soda, sports drinks and other sugary drinks from food stamp eligibility, citing their effects on obesity. The mayor wanted the food stamp-eligible products to provide nourishment for better health. The department declined, saying the restrictions on retailers were too difficult. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Bloomberg's bans: Salt, sodas, smoking No smoking in parks – Beginning May 23, 2011, New Yorkers were no longer allowed to go outside and light up in public places. Bloomberg proposed the plan in September 2010 to ban outdoor smoking in parks, beaches, marinas, boardwalks and pedestrian plazas, because of secondhand smoke's harmful effects. Now, it is illegal to smoke in any of the city's 1,700 parks and open spaces. The punishment is a $50 fine. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Bloomberg's bans: Salt, sodas, smoking Campaign against underage drinking – New York's comprehensive health policy, announced in 2004, included Bloomberg's goal to help decrease underage binge drinking and illegal alcohol sales through public service ads. After launching a campaign in 2010 to emphasize the hazards of excessive drinking, Bloomberg plans to continue limiting alcohol advertising near schools and to work with the police and the New York State Liquor Authority to enforce laws prohibiting alcohol sales to youths. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Bloomberg's bans: Salt, sodas, smoking Salads in schools – Bloomberg announced in December that obesity rates among New York public elementary and middle school students decreased over the past five years. He also promoted the Salads in Schools initiative, which provided low-height salad bars to elementary schools across the city's five boroughs. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Bloomberg's bans: Salt, sodas, smoking Calorie count menus – In October 2007, Bloomberg introduced an initiative for chain restaurants to display calorie information on menus and menu boards. McDonald's, Burger King and Starbucks previously listed these counts on their websites or posters, but Bloomberg wanted the information to be in plain sight. Counts began appearing on menus, such as this one from Chipotle, in 2008. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Bloomberg's bans: Salt, sodas, smoking Cutbacks in salt – Salt may liven up meals, but an excess of salt can also lead to some health problems. In January 2010, Bloomberg unveiled a plan to cut the amount of salt in packaged and restaurant food by 25% over a five-year period. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Bloomberg's bans: Salt, sodas, smoking Ban on trans fats – In 2006, the New York City Board of Health approved Bloomberg's plan to ban trans fat in cooking oils within the city's 24,000 food establishments. The plan gave restaurants 18 months to make the change. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Bloomberg's bans: Salt, sodas, smoking Hidden cigarettes – A week after a judge blocked his bid to ban large sugary drinks in March 2013, Bloomberg unveiled a Tobacco Product Display Restriction bill which would force city retailers to keep tobacco products out of sight. If it passes, New York would become the nation's first city to enact such a law, Bloomberg said. Hide Caption 11 of 11JUST WATCHED Sugary drinks and your health Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sugary drinks and your health 03:41JUST WATCHED Coca-Cola rep: Public health important Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Coca-Cola rep: Public health important 02:24JUST WATCHED NYC plans to ban large sugary drinks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NYC plans to ban large sugary drinks 04:11"If approved, the city's proposal would take effect six months after Board of Health approval and would be enforced by the city's regular restaurant inspection team," a statement from Bloomberg's office said. "Restaurant owners will have nine months from the adoption of the proposal until they face fines."Fines will then be $200, the statement said.Speaking by satellite to the All Things D technology event in California -- a previously scheduled appearance -- Bloomberg said, "This is something we think we have the legal authority to do. We¹re not taking away anybody's right to do something; we're simply making it different for them in how they do it." He said he hoped the move will help lead to different behaviors.The city spends $4 billion a year on medical care for overweight people, he said.The statement from his office cited health problems facing the city, including an increase in obesity. "The single largest driver of these alarming increases in obesity is sugary drinks, which have grown in size," the statement said.It was not immediately clear what that assertion was based on.While the consumption of sugary drinks contributes to obesity, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention does not name a single largest cause nationally.In a report this month, the nonprofit Institute of Medicine said, despite the "difficulty of quantifying relative contributions to the obesity epidemic, researchers have found strong associations between intake of sugar-sweetened beverages and weight gain. Although the exact mechanisms of how sugar-sweetened beverages contribute to obesity are not fully known, their link to obesity is stronger than that observed for any other food or beverage."The New York City Health Department commissioner, Dr. Tom Farley, tweeted, "Big sugary drinks are major contributor to obesity epidemic. We're proposing to cap them at 16 oz. in restaurants.""There they go again," Stefan Friedman, a spokesman for the New York City Beverage Association, said in a statement Thursday. "The New York City Health Department's unhealthy obsession with attacking soft drinks is again pushing them over the top. The city is not going to address the obesity issue by attacking soda because soda is not driving the obesity rates."McDonald's restaurants issued a statement saying, "Public health issues cannot be effectively addressed through a narrowly focused and misguided ban. This is a complex topic, and one that requires a more collaborative and comprehensive approach."A statement from the Coca-Cola company said the "people of New York City are much smarter than the New York City Health Department believes. ... New Yorkers expect and deserve better than this. They can make their own choices about the beverages they purchase. We hope New Yorkers loudly voice their disapproval about this arbitrary mandate."But Center for Science in the Public Interest spokesman Jeff Cronin told CNN that his group considers the decision the "boldest move in the country" and "not the first time that Mayor (Michael) Bloomberg has led the charge.""In the same way New York City generated momentum for calorie labeling and for getting rid of artificial trans fat, we hope this move today will start a national movement to ratchet down out of control soda serving sizes," Cronin said.Broad public health initiatives have become a hallmark of Bloomberg's administration. Under the mayor, the city has banned trans fats from restaurants, smoking from parks, and has placed graphic ads targeting junk food and tobacco in public transit.The CDC says that "many people don't realize just how many calories beverages can contribute to their daily intake."The CDC's National Center for Health Statistics, in a brief last August, said sugar drinks "have been linked to poor diet quality, weight gain, obesity, and, in adults, type 2 diabetes."The American Heart Association has recommended a consumption goal of no more than 450 kilocalories of sugar-sweetened beverages -- fewer than three 12-ounce cans of carbonated cola -- per week, the report says.But Friedman, in his statement, said that "as obesity continues to rise, CDC data shows that calories from sugar-sweetened beverages are a small and declining part of the American diet."Beverage Digest, which tracks sales, reported that in 2011, sales of carbonated soft drinks dropped by 1%, a steeper decline than the year before. Total sales of carbonated soft drinks are down to the level they were in 1996, the report said.Per capita consumption is at its lowest since 1987, the report said.But the CDC notes that the consumption of sugar drinks -- including non-carbonated beverages -- is higher than it was 30 years ago. And part of the key to cutting calories is "to think about what you drink," it says.That includes watching calories in coffee drinks and smoothies, the CDC says. Just over half -- 52% -- of calories from sugar drinks are consumed at home, the CDC brief said.