Story highlights Storms need moist air to develop, and Southeast has faced a drought this fallThere hasn't been a US tornado to date in November -- usually a time for deadly storms(CNN) Severe weather is often associated with spring, but fall is a second deadly season for tornadoes, especially for Gulf Coast states.There hasn't been a single tornado to date this month in the country. Last year 99 tornadoes occurred in November.Photos: Dallas-area tornadoes Photos: Dallas-area tornadoes Josh White gets emotional as he recounts how he lived through the tornado that hit Garland, Texas, on Saturday, December 28. The National Weather Service confirmed that three tornadoes were part of storms that ripped through the Dallas area, killing 11 people and damaging hundreds of buildings. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Dallas-area tornadoes An emergency vehicle drives through a neighborhood in Rowlett, Texas, on Sunday, December 27. Crews were scouring debris for victims and assessing damage. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Dallas-area tornadoes Bob Moore walks through his home in Rowlett the morning after it was hit by a tornado. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Dallas-area tornadoes A Christmas tree lies in the wreckage of a family's home in Rowlett on December 27. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Dallas-area tornadoes A bus is overturned in Garland on December 27. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Dallas-area tornadoes Debris is scattered around a driveway in Rowlett on December 27. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Dallas-area tornadoes Tornado damage is seen in a neighborhood in Garland on December 27. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Dallas-area tornadoes A Rowlett home is heavily damaged. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Dallas-area tornadoes This apartment building in Garland was damaged as well. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Dallas-area tornadoes Michael Downard stands outside his house in Rowlett the morning after it was struck by a tornado. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Dallas-area tornadoes Damage is seen in a Garland neighborhood on December 27. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Dallas-area tornadoes A flipped vehicle is seen in Rowlett. Hide Caption 12 of 12On average, the month sees 58 tornadoes, most occurring in Texas, which averages nine in November.Drought is overwhelming Southeastern states this fall, and temperatures have soared, depleting ground moisture.Storms need moist air to develop, and the lack of moisture this fall has inhibited storm development both for the much needed rain and the formation of supercell storms capable of producing tornadoes.Read More