Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Happy Monday. We hope you took some time this weekend to relax and decompress. Now, back to it. Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.1. Presidential transition2. Presidential backlashThe first weekend of a Trump America brought even more protests nationwide. One person was shot and 71 arrested in Portland, but otherwise they have been peaceful. Sadly, t he racist attacks continue , prompting Donald Trump to tell his supporters to " stop it ."3. South KoreaSouth Korea's having presidential drama of its own. Hundreds of thousands took to the streets to rail against Park Geun-hye. They want her gone because she shared classified information with a confidante who a) doesn't have security clearance, and b) may be using her access to Park to make money.4. ColombiaLet's try this again, shall we? Colombia's government has signed a revised peace deal with FARC . You may remember that voters shut down the previous deal because they wanted the rebel group punished for its crimes. The new deal requires FARC to pay reparations to victims.5. New ZealandA huge quake struck New Zealand this morning , killing at least 2 and leaving damage the country's president said may cost billions to repair. There was a small tsunami, too, but the region has since been given the all-clear. A quake in 2011 killed 185 there, so citizens were rightly freaked out today.Breakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Two entertainment greats, goneStill want to move to another country, Americans?Bikers rescue a stranded Bruce SpringsteenHere are the dirtiest things on a planeNew Zealand builds tiny underpass for tiny penguinsThese creatures are so small and precious and now they can cross under roads safely and maybe mankind is good after all.And finally ...You know they'd go there.SNL does election night. It's only, like, the most popular thing on Youtube right now. (Click to view)