Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Good morning. Hope you had a wonderful holiday weekend. Now put away those turkey leftovers and get ready to jump back into the work week.1. Fidel CastroFidel Castro died over the holiday weekend and, like you'd expect, it caused two distinct reactions . In Cuba, an outpouring of grief, and many Cubans will celebrate his life with mass gatherings this week. In Florida and elsewhere, there was joy and celebration, with revelers spilling into the streets of Miami's Little Havana neighborhood. Castro's funeral will be Sunday in Santiago de Cuba.2. PoliticsCampaign 2016 is over, right? Not for everybody. The Green Party, with a little help from the Clinton campaign, filed a recount in Wisconsin after reports of possible voting discrepancies in areas that used paper ballots. President-elect Trump blasted the effort, calling it "a scam." Then he claimed, without a shred of truth, that he would've won the popular vote -- if millions of people hadn't voted for Hillary Clinton illegally.3. FranceFrance tried out some US-style politics of its own in a first-ever primary runoff, with French conservatives picking Francois Fillon as their presidential candidate . He could face off against far-right candidate Marine Le Pen in a vote next spring. Le Pen's hard line on immigration has given her a boost.4. SoccerDozens of players in English soccer clubs have come forward with sexual abuse claims dating back to their youth. England's Football Asociation has started an investigation; six or seven clubs may be implicated. The allegations have rocked English soccer. A hotline for victims who suffered abuse while playing soccer as children received 50 calls shortly after being set up.5. New OrleansThe holiday weekend ended on a violent note down on Bourbon Street. One person was killed and nine injured after an argument between two men turned into a street shootout. Police are looking for the two men; Mayor Mitch Landrieu said the senseless shooting wasn't "the New Orleans way."BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Attention shoppersMissed out on all that Black Friday nonsense? Rejoice, you still have a chance to spend more than you should , because today is Cyber Monday.Power upIf you've got friends or relatives in Tennessee, you might want to check in on them. A $420 million Powerball ticket was sold there.Downward catYou can do yoga classes with your cat now . But we don't know if they have to wear those yoga pants too.Stopping trafficRemember that giant sinkhole in Japan they fixed in just a couple of days? It's baaaaaack.Frozen insanityA Japanese theme park thought it was a swell idea to freeze 5,000 sea creatures to the floor of an ice rink . Social media wasn't having it.AND FINALLY ...Where are they?