(CNN) As President-elect Donald Trump's administration begins taking shape, thousands poured onto the streets of a divided nation again Saturday to express their frustration at the stunning election result.From New York to Los Angeles, demonstrators have marched in various American cities for four nights since Trump's unexpected victory Tuesday capped an acrimonious campaign.While largely peaceful, the protests have resulted in blocked highways and bridges, arrests during clashes with police and the early Saturday shooting of a man at a march in Portland, Oregon.In Cincinnati, anti-Trump demonstrators were joined by hundreds of people protesting a hung jury in the murder trial of a former University of Cincinnati police officer who fatally shot a black motorist during a July 2015 traffic stop.In Los Angeles' MacArthur Park, the site of immigrant rights protests over the years, demonstrators took turns Saturday swatting a stick at a piñata resembling Trump.Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, a Democrat, praised the protesters."I've been proud of my city, proud of students out there and people who are exercising their patriotic right," he told CNN Saturday."I know the headlines are always the few people who jump onto a freeway or two or three people who spray paint something. We'll always deal with lawless behavior. The main story is that Americans, not just in my city but around the country, are saying we want to continue to embrace people regardless of how they worship God, who they love, where they live or even immigration status."In New York, angry crowds -- some carrying signs with messages such as "Not my president" -- marched to the President-elect's doorstep, Trump Tower, where he lives and works.For part of the march up Fifth Avenue, they chanted, "Donald Trump go away. Racist -- sexist -- anti-gay."Outside the gleaming tower, demonstrators at one point booed at people standing on balconies.New Yorkers are on the march to Trump Tower pic.twitter.com/sfIudXmJQ9 — Donie O'Sullivan (@donie) November 12, 2016"Words can't describe how disgusted I am that he was elected over Hillary (Clinton)," Shoshi "Rabin" Rabinowitz said Friday night, explaining her motivation for being near Trump Tower.Fellow protester Nick Truesdale said, "I think he needs to really address all the divisive, hateful things he's said in the past and recant them, denounce them."Some of the signs outside Trump Tower pic.twitter.com/CQ8LtsXMm1 — Donie O'Sullivan (@donie) November 12, 2016Reacting to this week's demonstrations, Trump tweeted Thursday night, "Just had a very open and successful presidential election. Now professional protesters, incited by the media, are protesting. Very unfair!"Just had a very open and successful presidential election. Now professional protesters, incited by the media, are protesting. Very unfair! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 11, 2016The President-elect appeared more conciliatory Friday morning, saying: "Love the fact that the small groups of protesters last night have passion for our great country. We will all come together and be proud!"Love the fact that the small groups of protesters last night have passion for our great country. We will all come together and be proud! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 11, 2016Protests across USAmong the cities that were scenes of Friday protests were Los Angeles; New Haven, Connecticut; Orlando; Chicago; Boston; Asheville, North Carolina; Nashville; and Columbus, Ohio. There were also marches at schools in Denver and Omaha, Nebraska.Groups across the country are angry about policies Trump has promised to enforce concerning immigration, the environment, LGBT rights and other issues.The Facebook page for a protest planned in Burlington, Vermont, said: "Come protest the xenophobia, racism, homophobia, misogyny, and climate science denial of the Trump/Pence regime!! Come show your support for our Muslim, queer, immigrant, and female family!!"The protests were mostly peaceful, but some were marred by violence.In Portland, a man was injured in a shooting early Saturday on the Morrison Bridge during a protest march.The suspect was believed to be in a vehicle on the bridge when a confrontation unfolded with a member of the crowd, Portland police said in a statement. The suspect got out of the vehicle and fired multiple shots before fleeing.The victim's injuries were not life-threatening, and he was treated at a hospital.Two alleged gang members were charged with attempted murder in connection with the shooting, officials said. The motive is unclear but investigators said they don't believe the shooter knew the victim.Portland mayor's pleaPortland police arrested 17 people Friday night.Mayor Charlie Hales urged residents to become involved with organizations such the American Civil Liberties Union instead of protesting."If you are upset about the election of Donald Trump and you want change, there are ways to do that," he said. "They don't involve taking to the streets with signs anymore."The night before, protesters blocked the street outside Portland City Hall. Police tried to disperse the demonstrators but tensions remained high. Some protesters hurled rocks, bottles and flares at police, officials said.This action is following burning projectiles being thrown at officers. — Portland Police (@PortlandPolice) November 12, 2016A Thursday night protest by about 4,000 people also turned violent. Windows on businesses were broken and a car dealership was vandalized. Twenty-six people were arrested, police said.JUST WATCHED Portland police say protest is 'riot' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Portland police say protest is 'riot' 02:16Hales blamed the vandalism on "some anarchists who hijacked" the protest."Going to the streets for another night is not going to keep Donald Trump from taking office," he said.In Boston, hundreds gathered on Boston Common for a "Love Rally in the Common." Organizers said on Facebook : "Let's unite together to peacefully show all of those whom Donald Trump or his supporters have put down that we still care about them, and to give them an opportunity to have their voices be heard."Some arrests were made in Los Angeles, but the police department did not immediately provide details on the number arrested.Chicago man beatenJUST WATCHED Man beaten, bystander yells 'you voted Trump' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man beaten, bystander yells 'you voted Trump' 01:05In Chicago, police told CNN they are investigating an incident this week in which a group of people reportedly beat a man while yelling that he voted for Trump.Cell phone video captured the man in a minor traffic accident Wednesday on Chicago's West Side.The 49-year-old driver, David Wilcox, told CNN affiliate WGN-TV that a car scraped the side of his vehicle as he was about to make a left turn at a busy intersection."I heard a lady yell something about 'that guy is one of those Trump supporters,' " Wilcox told the station. "I turned and said to her, 'That has nothing to do with this.'"The situation then apparently escalated as bystanders yelled anti-Trump taunts at Wilcox. The video shows Wilcox being knocked to the pavement, repeatedly being punched and kicked as a handful of people gather around him.Interstates blockedProtesters march Friday at Bayfront Park in Miami.In Miami, hundreds walked down Biscayne Boulevard chanting, "Love Trumps Hate," and carrying signs with messages such as "How many judges will it take to ruin America?" video from CNN affiliate WSVN-TV showed.Some protesters walked onto Interstate 95 and surrounded cars, bringing four lanes of traffic to a standstill, according to the WSVN footage.In Iowa City, Iowa, about 75 protesters shut down I-80 briefly, police Sgt. Chris Akers said. Nobody was arrested, he said.And your boy made @cnn A photo posted by Luis (@lmed305) on Nov 11, 2016 at 6:25pm PSTIn Dallas, protesters dragged and kicked a Trump piñata through the streets. A store window was reportedly smashed.American flag burnedIn Atlanta, about 500 people marched downtown, said Atlanta police spokesman Lukasz Sajdak. They tried to walk onto a highway, but law enforcement officers turned them back. No arrests were made.An American flag was burned near Georgia's state Capitol, something that didn't please protesters Sanjay and Akshita Mendonca, who say they voted for Clinton."The current situation is not good for us and our children," said Sanjay Mendonca, 40. "I'm here for my kids because I don't want them to think we didn't do something. ... A lot of people feel hopeless right now."When asked why he was protesting, 20-year-old Alex Hariri said, "Trump does not support anyone in the community I know. I'm a gay Middle Eastern man. He's against everything I am."Anti-Trump protest in Atlanta. Someone just burned an American flag. "Our streets!" They're shouting. Covered by Gary Tuchman on @cnn #election2016 A photo posted by Khushbu Shah (@khushbuoshea) on Nov 11, 2016 at 6:07pm PSTUS vs Mexico soccer gameAfter a presidential campaign noted for Trump's heated rhetoric on undocumented Mexican immigrants, crowds gathered to build bonds during the US-Mexico 2018 World Cup qualifier game Friday in Columbus, Ohio.US soccer fans put politics aside as they greeted Mexican fans with high-fives."The atmosphere is absolutely amazing," Christian Couch said. "It's a sport that we all love, and that's why we are here. I don't think politics should play a part in this game."Mexico beat the US 2-1.