Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Good morning. If you see a veteran today, thank him or her for their service. It's their day. Here's what you need to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Presidential transitionWell, that wasn't so bad was it? President-elect Donald Trump met with President Obama at the White House and it wasn't as awkward as we all dreamed it would be . Trump called Obama "a very good man;" Obama pledged to ensure a successful transition. It was a head-spinning display of civility between two men who just a few days ago were openly mocking each other.2. Trump protestsProtesters against the looming Trump presidency just aren't having it. They hit the streets again with demonstrations and vigils in several US cities, including LA, Philly, Denver and Baltimore. Things were most heated in Portland, Oregon, where people smashed windows, set fires and threw stuff at police , who called the whole thing a riot. Trump tweeted the protesters were "very unfair."3. Obamacare4. MosulAs coalition forces close in on ISIS in Mosul, the terrorists are lashing out. ISIS has been executing civilians accused of being spies for Iraq's security forces and leaving their bodies at intersections. All of the victims have been male and were shot in the head. Since this offensive started, more than 1,200 ISIS militants have been killed, and 10,000 families have been liberated.5. WeatherLa Nina's back and, depending on where you live, it may wreck your winter . If you live in the Pacific Northwest, it's going to be wetter and colder. If you live in the Southeast, things are going to be drier and warmer, but that's the worst news possible because the region is suffering through a pretty bad drought.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.I'm your manLeonard Cohen, the poetic and lyrical genius behind such classics as "Hallelujah," has died at the age of 82California dreamingA Trump presidency is a no-go for a lot of Californians, so a movement for the state to secede from the US is gaining steam. #Calexit anyone?Rock monsterPolitical proposalFed up with the election results? Want to move to Sweden? A six-foot-tall blonde man there will marry any American who'll play $50,000 on eBay.Don't blame the gorillaHe's a tempting target, but no, Harambe didn't cost Hillary Clinton the election by nabbing more than 11,000 votes . That's a fake story. Now let him rest in peace.AND FINALLY ...Kid vs. garbage canIt's been an emotional week, no matter how you feel about the election. How about some cheap laughs, supplied by this kid just trying to take out the trash.