Photos: Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years – Daniel Inouye, a World War II veteran who represented Hawaii in the U.S. Senate for five decades, died on Monday, December 17. He was 88. See photos of the Medal of Honor recipient through the years: Hide Caption 1 of 10Photos: Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years – Inouye, right, and Speaker of the House John Boehner listen to Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard address Congress on March 9, 2011. Inouye was the second longest-serving U.S. senator in the chamber's history, winning his ninth consecutive term in 2010. Hide Caption 2 of 10Photos: Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years – Inouye, left, shakes hands with Japanese Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama before their meeting on January 15, 2010, in Tokyo. Inouye was a senator for all but three of the Hawaii's 53 years as a state and had served as its first House member before that. Hide Caption 3 of 10Photos: Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years – Senate giants: Sen. Robert Byrd, right, of West Virginia shakes hands with Inouye on May 15, 2008. Byrd was the longest-serving senator in the chamber's history. Hide Caption 4 of 10Photos: Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years – French President Nicolas Sarkozy, left, embraces Inouye after awarding him the Legion d'honneur in Washington on November 6, 2007. Sarkozy decorated seven U.S .World War II veterans at the event. Hide Caption 5 of 10Photos: Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years – Inouye, center, is escorted by Army Gen. Charles Taylor while inspecting troops outside the Pentagon during the annual National POW/MIA Recognition Day ceremony September 14, 2004. Inouye lost an arm in World War II combat. Hide Caption 6 of 10Photos: Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years – Inouye, left, poses for photographers with Vice President Dick Cheney during the reenactment of a swearing-in ceremony on January 4, 2005. Hide Caption 7 of 10Photos: Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years – Former U.S. President Bill Clinton, right, congratulates Inouye after awarding him the Congressional Medal of Honor on June 21, 2000, at the White House. Hide Caption 8 of 10Photos: Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years Sen. Daniel Inouye through the years – Inouye, left, was chairman of the Senate committee that held hearings on the Iran-Contra affair. Here, he talks with House committee Chairman Lee Hamilton on July 13, 1987. Hide Caption 9 of 10