Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners wipe tears away as they file out of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints after the funeral of Emilie Parker in Ogden, Utah, on Saturday, December 22. Hide Caption 1 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – The casket of Rachel Marie D'Avino is carried into the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, Connecticut on Friday, December 21. Hide Caption 2 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Parents attend the funeral of Dylan Hockley, 6, a victim of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, on December 21 in Newtown, Connecticut. Hide Caption 3 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A view from outside the funeral service for 6-year-old Dylan Hockley at Walnut Hill Community Church on December 21. Hide Caption 4 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Family members depart the Trinity Episcopal Church in Newtown, Connecticut, following a funeral for Benjamin Wheeler, 6, on December 20. Hide Caption 5 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners, including Boy Scout and Tiger Scout members, depart the funeral on December 20, 2012. Wheeler was a member of Tiger Scout Den 6. Hide Caption 6 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Boy scouts salute as a funeral procession for Benjamin Wheeler enters the Trinity Episcopal Church on December 20, in Newtown, Connecticut. Hide Caption 7 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Firefighters salute as the casket of Daniel Barden, 7, a victim of the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School, is removed from St. Rose of Lima Church on Wednesday, December 19, 2012, in Newtown, Connecticut. Hide Caption 8 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Police escort the hearse bearing the casket of Daniel Barden from St. Rose of Lima Church on December 19. Hide Caption 9 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners enter St. Rose of Lima Church for the funeral of Charlotte Bacon, 6, on December 19, in Newtown. Hide Caption 10 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A police officer directs traffic as mourners enter the church for Charlotte Bacon's funeral on December 19. Hide Caption 11 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A procession arrives for the funeral of Victoria Soto, 27, at Lordship Community Church in Stratford, Connecticut, on December 19. Soto was a first-grade teacher being hailed as a hero for protecting the children in her class during last week's school massacre in Newtown. Hide Caption 12 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A woman carries a program with Soto's photo after attending a funeral for the slain teacher in Stratford on December 19. Hide Caption 13 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Bagpipers play at funeral services for Soto on December 19 in Stratford. Hide Caption 14 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Richard and Krista Rekos leave after a funeral service for their 6-year-old daughter, Jessica, at Saint Rose of Lima Church on Tuesday, December 18, in Newtown. Jessica was one of 20 children killed in last week's school shooting. Hide Caption 15 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Family and friends depart Jessica's funeral on December 18 in Newtown. Hide Caption 16 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A child stands next to a makeshift memorial for Jessica Rekos following her funeral on December 18. Hide Caption 17 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Pallbearers carry out James Mattioli's casket at St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church after a funeral Mass on December 18 in Newtown. James, 6, was one of the 26 victims in the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown. Hide Caption 18 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners console each other after the funeral for James Mattioli on December 18. Hide Caption 19 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – People arrive for the funeral of Jessica Rekos, 6, at St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church in Newtown on December 18. Hide Caption 20 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Jessica Rekos' casket arrives at St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church as mourners gather December 18. Hide Caption 21 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners console each other after attending the funeral for Jack Pinto, 6, on December 17. Hide Caption 22 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners grieve the death of Jack Pinto, 6, on December 17. Hide Caption 23 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A mother and two children attend the funeral for Jack Pinto on December 17. Children are among those crowding the funeral for the 6-year-old boy. Hide Caption 24 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – A man comforts a young mourner at Honan Funeral Home while attending the funeral for Jack Pinto, 6, on December 17. Hide Caption 25 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Boys enter Honan Funeral Home before Jack Pinto's funeral on December 17 in Newtown. Hide Caption 26 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Veronika Pozner, mother of Noah Pozner, arrives for her son's funeral on Monday, December 17, at the Abraham L. Green and Son Funeral Home in Fairfield, Connecticut. Monday is the first day of funerals for the 20 children and seven adults who were killed by 20-year-old Adam Lanza on December 14. Hide Caption 27 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Three women embrace as they arrive for the funeral services for Noah Pozner on December 17. Hide Caption 28 of 30Photos: Funerals: Community says goodbye Newtown funerals: Community says goodbye – Mourners arrive at Noah Pozner's service in Fairfield on December 17. Hide Caption 29 of 30