Story highlights Friday, December 21, marks one week since the Sandy Hook shootingMany will pause at 9:30 a.m. when the shooting beganMoments of silence, website blackouts and other tributes are plannedSince the deadly shootings last Friday at Sandy Hook Elementary in Newtown, Connecticut, family and friends of the victims have gathered to remember and bury loved ones.At 9:30 a.m., the time the shootings started, people all over the United States and the world paused to honor the six educators and 20 children who were killed at the school.Moment of silenceOn Tuesday, Gov. Dannel Malloy declared that Friday would be a day of mourning in Connecticut. He also was among the first to call for a moment of silence in his state, and he called on other governors to do the same.After a news conference, state leaders across the country followed suit, including Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado . In many states, flags are flying at half-staff, and government activity came to a stop to honor the moment.JUST WATCHED Father: Jesse died trying to save peers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Father: Jesse died trying to save peers 06:16JUST WATCHED Lanza buried in undisclosed location Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lanza buried in undisclosed location 03:34JUST WATCHED Father: My son was my best friend Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Father: My son was my best friend 02:41The New York Stock Exchange also started the day of trading by holding a moment of silence, marked by a single bell at 9:30 a.m. The standard opening bell followed one minute later at 9:31 a.m.Online solidarityCitizens also are taking it upon themselves to remember the tragedy. The social media savvy took to Twitter, Facebook and other platforms, using #momentforsandyhook to spread the word about the one-week tribute.Video game cease-fireThe gaming community is showing their support for the people of Newtown by putting down their controllers for the day. GamerFitNation called on gamers online to not play violent games for 24 hours starting at midnight. Instead, gamers participating are posting #OSCEASEFIRE on social media or their video game's online comment window to show solidarity.Community solidarityTowns and communities around the country are planning smaller tributes to stand with Newtown one week later. Many churches and places of worship rang bells 26 times at 9:30 a.m., once for each of the victims. One church in Newtown rang its bells 28 times, to include the victims, the shooter and his mother, Nancy Lanza.Others planned to release 26 green and white balloons , the colors of Sandy Hook Elementary School. Many have written the names of the victims and attached messages to the balloons.Support for the families of Sandy Hook Elementary and the Newtown community will continue to pour in even after the one-week commemoration.