Story highlights Survivors of mass shootings can relive trauma after Connecticut shootingsSome Columbine survivors now have children in schoolIt "sparks all my fears," one Columbine survivor saysOne who was shot six times instantly began to relive his horrorWhen she heard about Friday's mass killing at a Connecticut elementary school, Kacey Johnson felt her own trauma reawaken.She is 1,800 miles away, and doesn't know anyone who was involved. But she knows something that very few other people do: what it's like when gunshots turn a school day into horror."It just sparks all my fears," says Johnson, a survivor of the 1999 massacre at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colorado.Like many others who were a part of that tragedy, Johnson is now a parent herself -- and has a child in school.Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Children in Newtown, Connecticut, return to school on December 18, 2012, four days after the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School. Hide Caption 1 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut State Police officers search outside St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church in Newtown, Connecticut, on Tuesday, December 16, after a threat prompted authorities to evacuate the building. Investigators found nothing to substantiate the reported threat, a police official said, declining to provide additional details. The church held Sunday services following the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown. Hide Caption 2 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut State Police officers walk out of St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church after the Newtown church received a threat December 16. Hide Caption 3 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Firefighters attach black bunting to a fire truck as a memorial at the fire station down the street from the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, on Saturday, December 15. Hide Caption 4 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut Chief Medical Examiner H. Wayne Carver II talks to the media about the elementary school shooting during a press conference at Treadwell Memorial Park on December 15. Hide Caption 5 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Zulma Sein is hugged by a family member outside of the entrance to the Sandy Hook School on Saturday. Hide Caption 6 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Police officers keep guard at the entrance to the street leading to the Sandy Hook Elementary School on Saturday, December 15. Hide Caption 7 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut State Police Lt. Paul Vance addresses the press on December 15. Hide Caption 8 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Police officers stand at the entrance to the street leading to the Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 15. Hide Caption 9 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Corinne McLaughlin, a student at the University of Hartford, bows her head during a candlelight vigil at Hartford, Connecticut's Bushnell Park on Friday, December 14, honoring the students and teachers who died at Sandy Hook Elementary School in nearby Newtown earlier in the day. Hide Caption 10 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Distraught people leave the fire station after hearing news of their loved ones from officials on Friday. Hide Caption 11 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Emergency workers stand in front of the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown. Hide Caption 12 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A child and her mother leave a staging area outside Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, on December 14. Hide Caption 13 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Members of the media converge on December 14 in front of an apartment at 1313 Grand Street in Hoboken, New Jersey. The apartment is believed to be connected to the Connecticut elementary school shooting. Hide Caption 14 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Faisal Ali, right, of Colorado Springs, Colorado, joins other people outside the White House on December 14 to participate in a candlelight vigil to remember the victims of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting. Hide Caption 15 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut State Police spokesman Lt. J. Paul Vance, center, briefs the media on the elementary school shootings during a press conference at Treadwell Memorial Park on December 14 in Newtown. Hide Caption 16 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People weep and embrace near Sandy Hook Elementary School on Friday, December 14. Hide Caption 17 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A woman leans on a man as she weeps near Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 18 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – President Barack Obama wipes a tear as he speaks about the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School during a press briefing at the White House on December 14. Hide Caption 19 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A woman weeps near the site of a shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 20 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A woman weeps near Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 21 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People comfort each other near Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 22 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A man takes in the scene near Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 23 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A young girl is given a blanket after being evacuated from Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 24 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – State police personnel lead children from the school. Hide Caption 25 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Children wait outside Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, after the shooting. Hide Caption 26 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A boy weeps at Reed Intermediate School after getting news of the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 27 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – FBI SWAT team members walk along Dickinson Drive near Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 28 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – An aerial view of Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut on December 14. Hide Caption 29 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut State Troopers arrive on the scene outside Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 30 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A Connecticut State Police officer runs with a shotgun at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown on December 14. Hide Caption 31 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Police patrol the streets around Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 32 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People try to deal with the shock of the attack outside Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 33 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – Connecticut State Police secure the scene of the shooting on December 14. Hide Caption 34 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People embrace outside Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 35 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A man escorts his son away from Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 36 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People take in the news outside Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 37 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People line up to enter Newtown Methodist Church near the the scene of the shooting on December 14. Hide Caption 38 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A woman speaks with a Connecticut state trooper outside Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 39 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – The streets around Sandy Hook Elementary are packed with first responders and other vehicles. Hide Caption 40 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A view of the scene at Sandy Hook Elementary School after the shooting. Hide Caption 41 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – A young boy is comforted outside Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14. Hide Caption 42 of 43 Photos: Photos: Newtown school shooting Newtown school shooting – People embrace each other on December 14. Hide Caption 43 of 43JUST WATCHED How the tragedy unfolded Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How the tragedy unfolded 03:18"It brings up all this doubt in me that my child would ever be safe at school ," she says. "Having been the one in a million that this happens to, my reality is different from most of the world. I don't have the thinking that this would never happen at my child's school. I think complete the opposite."Kayce Johnson, a survivor of the Columbine massacre, is pictured with her husband Patrick and their three daughtersShe and her husband Patrick have three daughters, ages 4, 3, and 6 months. The eldest goes to school. "I've had to come to a place of healing where I felt OK with sending my daughter to school, without putting any of my fears from my experience on her," Johnson says.But after the news broke of the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School that left 26 people dead, 20 of them children, Johnson kept her daughter home Friday. "Because of all the emotion that the shooting brought up for me," she says, "and the battle in my mind."That battle is between the thoughts that tell her kids will be safe and those that tell her that this could happen again, making one of her kids a victim.It's a battle Michelle Wheeler also knows well. She was a senior at Columbine when two students killed 13 people before taking their own lives."I've witnessed more things than I'll ever want to admit to in my life," she says. "I've tasted blood. I've smelled blood. I've seen friends die. And to know that it happened in an elementary school -- they're just babies there. You're speechless. You don't know what to say."She and her husband Michael have a daughter in first grade, who was sick at home on Friday. Wheeler is a pre-school teacher in an elementary school. She says she learned to move forward after Columbine by finding a "new normal.""I am not your normal. I am my own normal. The memories will never go away."Wheeler heard about the Connecticut shootings on Facebook, and is avoiding TV coverage. "I've looked at the news online, because as a survivor there's a control thing that I need," she says. "When Columbine happened, I didn't have control over my body. Your body shuts down. You go into fight or flight and it's really hard to turn your body back on. I need control in my life. I can control not turning on the TV, so I can control some of my emotions."Sean Graves works every day to move past the horror of Columbine.Sean Graves, who was shot six times in the 1999 Columbine High School massacre, and his wife KaraHe lives with nerve pain. Graves was shot six times that day and spent more than a year in a wheelchair. Just last year he had surgery to try to correct some damage from a bullet that shattered his vertebrae and ricocheted out his hip."I go day to day without thinking about it. At least I try not to," he says. "But when something like this happens that's the first thing you do -- you begin to relive it... It'll take an emotional toll. That's for sure."For survivors of Columbine and other tragedies, there's a serious danger when new mass killings stir up memories, says clinical psychologist Paula BloomThese tragedies "can completely trigger some of the nightmares and flashbacks," damaging recovery and bringing back feelings of terror and powerlessness.If people start to have trouble functioning or feel very anxious and fearful, they should consider resuming therapy, Bloom says.Avoiding the news coverage, or seeing just a little, is often a good idea in those cases, she says."People need to be cautious," Bloom says.But depending where someone is in his or her recovery, there can be another response to a tragedy, Bloom says. Survivors may feel a sense of strength to help shattered families because of their ability to empathize."You can be inoculated, welled up with compassion and less of the fear because you know you can get through to the other end, because you've been there. People who have been through this have found a way to create meaning," she says. "People take their experience and transform their pain into power. It's psychological alchemy."That's something Columbine survivors are working to achieve. Their thoughts and prayers are with the families in Connecticut."It's taken me years to get to the point where I'm at now," says Graves. "It's been a struggle, and it's been painful and emotional. But to see a bunch of families have to go through this -- they're just starting their journey now. I wouldn't wish this on my worst enemy."Wheeler and some other survivors and their parents have created a group called The Rebels Project to reach out and help survivors of mass shootings and families of victims."We have parents who had to carry us through dark ages and try to get us to be normal citizens," she says. "These parents know how to speak to parents. They are working to do something for Connecticut."The project was started this past summer, after a gunman opened fire at a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado, killing 12 people.Some people in the Aurora community who were traumatized by that mass killing have already been calling a hotline in the city, says Mara Kailin, program director at the Aurora Mental Health Center."We've been hearing from from first responders and folks in the community that were directly impacted," she says. "They're wanting to help people in Connecticut -- and being reminded of what we went through a very short time ago."