Story highlights "Devastated" widow calls Gerardo Hernandez, 39, "wonderful husband, father"Hernandez was fatally wounded in the Los Angeles International Airport shootingHernandez would have celebrated his 40th birthday next weekA California husband and father became the first TSA officer killed in the line of duty in the agency's 12-year history, the lone fatality in a frightful shooting at Los Angeles International Airport.Gerardo Hernandez would have celebrated his 40th birthday next week.Instead, he is being mourned as the first slain-on-duty officer at the Transportation Security Administration, a sometimes loathed but always vital agency that protects the country's airports."I am truly devastated," his widow Ana Hernandez said of the man she described as a "wonderful husband, father, brother, son and friend." "We are all heartbroken and will miss him dearly."Contradicting reports that Hernandez was a behavior detection officer, TSA Administrator John Pistole said he had other duties.Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Transportation Security Administration Officer Gerardo Hernandez, 39, was killed in a shooting at Los Angeles International Airport on Friday, November 1. Paul Ciancia, 23, armed with what police say was an assault rifle and carrying materials expressing anti-government sentiment, opened fire at LAX Terminal 3, killing Hernandez before being chased down. Ciancia has been charged with the murder of a federal officer and commission of violence at an international airport. Hide Caption 1 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – A passenger embraces a TSA screener at Los Angeles International Airport's Terminal 3 after it was reopened on Saturday, November 2 following a shooting. Four other people are recovering from injuries in the shooting. Hide Caption 2 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – TSA Administrator John S. Pistole, left, and Ana Hernandez, wife of slain TSA officer Gerardo Hernandez, prepare for a news conference in Porter Ranch, California on November 2. The slain officer "was a wonderful husband, father, brother, son and friend," his widow said. Hide Caption 3 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Injured traveler Bruce Reith, from Munich, Germany, is helped by two Los Angeles Airport Police officers as he makes his way on crutches to Terminal 3 for departure a day after injuring himself while escaping the shooting. Hide Caption 4 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Workers tear down a temporary partition after Terminal 3 was reopened on November 2, a day after a shooting at LAX. Hide Caption 5 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – A Los Angeles Airport Police officer stands in front of Terminal 3 security screeners after law enforcement officials completed their investigation and prepare to reopen the terminal at LAX on November 2. Hide Caption 6 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Police officers and emergency response officials meet outside Terminal 3 at Los Angeles International Airport after gunshots were reported inside the terminal on November 1. Hide Caption 7 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Transportation Security Administration employees hug outside Terminal 1. Hide Caption 8 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – This photo, from Terminal 3, shows what appears to be a weapon on the ground. Police said a man "pulled an assault rifle out of a bag and began to open fire" Friday, killing one person and injuring others before being shot and taken into custody. Hide Caption 9 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Law enforcement officers gather in Terminal 3 near the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 10 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Passengers sit on a luggage conveyor belt behind check-in kiosks in Terminal 1. Hide Caption 11 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Police check the area around Terminal 1. Hide Caption 12 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Passengers evacuate the airport after the incident, which airport officials said began about 9:30 a.m. The gunfire and the airport's announcement of the incident provoked chaos among travelers, passengers said. Hide Caption 13 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – People hide inside a bathroom stall at the airport after the gunshots were reported. Hide Caption 14 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Thousands of travelers were delayed after the incident closed the airport for hours. Hide Caption 15 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck talks with other responders at the airport Friday. Hide Caption 16 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – A police officer closes a road at the airport. The area around the airport was jammed with cars Friday morning as police shut down access. Hide Caption 17 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Police officers stand guard atop Terminal 3. Hide Caption 18 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Passengers are directed outside Terminal 2. Hide Caption 19 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – A family walks through a tunnel as they leave the airport. Hide Caption 20 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Passengers evacuated from Terminal 1 wait outside the airport. Hide Caption 21 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – "People were running and people (were) getting knocked down. There was luggage everywhere," traveler Alex Neumann said. "Mayhem is the best I can describe it." Hide Caption 22 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – People wait in a terminal after flights were grounded because of the incident. Hide Caption 23 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – Passengers wait on the curb after leaving the airport. Hide Caption 24 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – A police officer directs traffic. Hide Caption 25 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – The gunfire reports led to a "ground stop" for arriving planes, said police and the Federal Aviation Administration. Hide Caption 26 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – A police officer diverts traffic trying to enter the airport. Hide Caption 27 of 28 Photos: Photos: Gunfire at LAX Fatal shooting at Los Angeles airport – First responders and emergency vehicles arrive at the airport. Hide Caption 28 of 28TSA employees' union and federal sources said Hernandez was working as a travel document checker at the time of the shooting.Union president J. David Cox Sr. said his group was "sickened" by the shooting and expressed thanks to "all our brave (transportation security officers) who put their lives on the line every day to keep the flying public safe."The suspected gunman, 23-year-old Paul Anthony Ciancia , walked up to checkpoint at Terminal 3 where Hernandez was working, pulled a ".223-caliber MP-15 assault rifle out of his bag and fired multiple rounds at point-blank range," U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. said Saturday.Ciancia, 23, then went up an escalator near the checkpoint but then came back down "to return and shoot the wounded officer again," Birotte added.Hernandez was shot in the chest and abdomen, and pronounced dead upon his arrival at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, CNN affiliate KABC reported . He had been with the agency since 2010, the affiliate said.Two other TSA officers were also shot, one in the leg, authorities said."I'm shocked, the guy is a very nice guy," one of Hernandez's neighbors in the north Los Angeles community of Porter Ranch, Habib Bonakdar, told CNN affiliate KCAL-KCBS.Hernandez was married with children, another neighbor, Ken Wong, told the affiliate."It's just tragic," Wong said. "What a terrible thing. Here's a man who was trying to serve his country, do his job well and support his family, and this is a senseless thing that happened. It shouldn't have happened."