Photos: Photos: Weather threatens holiday plans Weather threatens holiday plans – Police officers adjust a barricade as people wait in cold weather along the route of the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade on Thursday, November 28, in New York. Hide Caption 1 of 14Photos: Photos: Weather threatens holiday plans Weather threatens holiday plans – Passengers wait for a BoltBus to arrive during a light rain on Wednesday, November 27, in New York. A wall of storms packing ice, sleet and rain threatened to suspend holiday travel plans as millions of Americans took to the roads, skies and rails. Hide Caption 2 of 14Photos: Photos: Weather threatens holiday plans Weather threatens holiday plans – The Snoopy balloon for the Macy's Parade is partially inflated on Wednesday, November 27, in New York. High winds threatened to keep the balloons on the ground during Thursday's Macy's Thanksgiving parade. A colossal storm system that began in California complicated Thanksgiving travel plans all the way to the Atlantic, causing many transportation delays. Hide Caption 3 of 14Photos: Photos: Weather threatens holiday plans Weather threatens holiday plans – An employee signals a plane out of the gate at Ronald Reagan National Airport outside of Washington on Tuesday, November 26. Hide Caption 4 of 14Photos: Photos: Weather threatens holiday plans Weather threatens holiday plans – Travelers wait in security lines at Reagan National Airport on November 26. Hide Caption 5 of 14Photos: Photos: Weather threatens holiday plans Weather threatens holiday plans – Vehicles pick up passengers in heavy rain at Reagan National Airport on November 26. Hide Caption 6 of 14Photos: Photos: Weather threatens holiday plans Weather threatens holiday plans – A pedestrian walks through snow showers along Penn Ave in Pittsburgh on November 26. Hide Caption 7 of 14Photos: Photos: Weather threatens holiday plans Weather threatens holiday plans – Mark Swigart uses a leaf blower to remove snow from the sidewalks November 26 in Pittsburgh. Hide Caption 8 of 14Photos: Photos: Weather threatens holiday plans Weather threatens holiday plans – Holiday travelers make their way to their car on November 26 after arriving at Pittsburgh International Airport. Hide Caption 9 of 14Photos: Photos: Weather threatens holiday plans Weather threatens holiday plans – People walk in the rain through Union Square in Manhattan on November 26. New York was bracing for severe weather as the storm made its way east. Hide Caption 10 of 14Photos: Photos: Weather threatens holiday plans Weather threatens holiday plans – Employees at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport de-ice a plane before departure on Monday, November 25. Hide Caption 11 of 14Photos: Photos: Weather threatens holiday plans Weather threatens holiday plans – A fallen tree is removed from a car in Odessa, Texas, on November 25. Hide Caption 12 of 14Photos: Photos: Weather threatens holiday plans Weather threatens holiday plans – A plow and sanding truck heads up Paseo del Norte in Albuquerque, New Mexico, on Sunday, November 24. Hide Caption 13 of 14