Story highlights 911 tapes tell of fast-spreading fear among shoppersOne caller begs dispatcher to tell cops to hurry upThe gunman, Richard Shoop, later shot himself in the headWhen a gunman opened fire at a sprawling New Jersey mall, sheer panic erupted. Shoppers begged police officers to rescue them while others whispered into phones, terrified the gunman was nearby.911 tapes released Wednesday tell of fast-spreading fear among shoppers as a gunman fired Monday night. Shortly after, he fatally shot himself."There's somebody shooting!" a voice screeches in the 911 tapes released by the Bergen County Police Department. The tapes were obtained by CNN affiliate, WABC."I'm scared and I want to get out the mall," another caller told dispatchers."The cops, I can see the cops from the door ... is there any way you could reach one of the them and they could come in and get me?"Photos: Photos: Shots fired at New Jersey mall Photos: Photos: Shots fired at New Jersey mall Shots fired at New Jersey mall – SWAT police walk outside the Westfield Garden State Plaza on Monday, November 4, after a gunman opened fire inside the mall in Paramus, New Jersey. Authorities said the gunman, Richard Shoop, fired at least six bullets inside the mall before holing himself up in a back room and shooting himself in the head. No one else was injured. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Photos: Shots fired at New Jersey mall Shots fired at New Jersey mall – This photo of Shoop was found on his ExploreTalent.com profile. Police found the 20-year-old's body in a back room hours after the first shot was fired. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Photos: Shots fired at New Jersey mall Shots fired at New Jersey mall – A man and woman leave the mall on Monday. The melee started around 9:20 p.m. ET, just as the mall was about to close. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Photos: Shots fired at New Jersey mall Shots fired at New Jersey mall – Police move in formation at the mall. The reasons for the shooting remained unclear Tuesday, but Bergen County Prosecutor John Molinelli told CNN's "New Day" that Shoop's intent was either to commit suicide "or to do something that would cause police to shoot him." Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Photos: Shots fired at New Jersey mall Shots fired at New Jersey mall – Police gather outside of the mall. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Photos: Shots fired at New Jersey mall Shots fired at New Jersey mall – An official leads a group of people out of the mall. More than 100 shoppers were still hiding inside stores early Tuesday morning, unsure of whether they could safely come out. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Photos: Shots fired at New Jersey mall Shots fired at New Jersey mall – Officials gather outside of the mall. Hide Caption 7 of 7JUST WATCHED Witness: Really didn't know what to do Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Witness: Really didn't know what to do 02:59JUST WATCHED What was mall shooter's intent? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What was mall shooter's intent? 02:56JUST WATCHED Police were yelling 'shots fired' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police were yelling 'shots fired' 02:16Others, scared the gunman was closing in, whispered to dispatchers."I don't hear any sirens here so please hurry."More than 100 shoppers sought protection shortly after shots rang out."Somebody is shooting up Garden State Plaza right now, I am in the bathroom," one caller says.Shoop's body was found early Tuesday in a back area of the mall hours after he fired at least six bullets without striking anyone in the massive shopping center. He acted alone, authorities say."We know that his intent was either suicide or to do something that would cause police to shoot him, which we call 'suicide by cop,' " Bergen County Prosecutor John Molinelli told CNN's New Day."He had more than enough opportunity to be able to shoot other people, including a group adjacent to him, but he didn't," Molinelli said. "Instead, he shot randomly at different locations."Shots hit the ceiling, an escalator, an elevator and a storefront, the prosecutor said.The reasons for the shooting remain unclear. Shoop used narcotic drugs and sold drugs as well, Molinelli said.Shoop, dressed all in black and wearing a motorcycle helmet, walked through the mall with a rifle modified to look like an AK-47. The rifle was taken from his brother, according to Molinelli.His hometown of Teaneck held a vigil for him Tuesday night.