Story highlights Attorney for Alex Rodriguez says Selig is being a cowardAlex Rodriguez claims commissioner is out to destroy his careerYankees player is appealing his 211-game suspensionMLB accuses Rodriguez of taking performance-enhancing drugsNew York Yankees player Alex Rodriguez walked out of an arbitration hearing into his record-setting 211-game suspension on Wednesday after learning Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig would not testify, saying later that he's done with what he called a "farce" and an "abusive process."After arbitrator Fred Horowitz made the decision on Selig, Rodriguez slammed his hand on a desk, looked at MLB Chief Operating Officer Rob Manfred and then at Horowitz, and cursed, a source who was in the room in New York told CNN.The Yankees third baseman then walked out, according to the source.Later, Rodriguez appeared on WFAN radio, which was simulcast on the YES cable TV network, and said he will meet with his attorneys to decide whether he will testify Friday, as scheduled.As of now, if Selig doesn't appear, Rodriguez won't either, he said.One of his attorneys told CNN's "Piers Morgan Live" that Selig needs to answer questions about the suspension."Come here, sit in the chair, take an oath, explain your unprecedented, unexplainable decision to make the suspension," attorney Joe Tacopina told CNN. "What this really is, is cowardice and hypocrisy."Rodriguez is appealing his suspension, which MLB levied after accusing him of taking performance-enhancing drugs and having ties to the now-shuttered Biogenesis clinic.JUST WATCHED Report: A-Rod, MLB paid for evidence Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Report: A-Rod, MLB paid for evidence 03:31Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – New York Yankees star Alex Rodriguez was suspended in August 2013 after he was accused of having ties to Biogenesis, a now-defunct anti-aging clinic, and taking performance-enhancing drugs. The suspension covers 211 regular-season games through the 2014 season. Rodriguez denied the accusations and said he intends to appeal. Twelve other Major League Baseball players received 50-game suspensions without pay in the Biogenesis probe, and In July, Milwaukee Brewers star outfielder Ryan Braun was suspended for the rest of the season for violating the league's drug policy. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – Lance Armstong was stripped of his seven Tour de France titles and banned from professional cycling in October 2012 after being accused of using performance-enhancing drugs. Armstrong confessed in January 2013 to doping during his cycling career. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – Barry Bonds is baseball's all-time home run leader, but some commentators say there should be an asterisk by his record. Though he's said he never knowingly used steroids, two San Francisco reporters wrote a book alleging he used performance-enhancing drugs. He was indicted on charges of perjury and obstructing justice for allegedly lying to a grand jury investigating steroids, and convicted of obstruction of justice. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – Lyle Alzado was known as one of the most vicious lineman to ever play the game, and he chalked up more than 100 sacks and almost 1,000 tackles. Before his death from brain cancer at age 43, he told Sports Illustrated he began using steroids in 1969 and that, "On some teams between 75 and 90% of all athletes use steroids." Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – Known as "Rocket" for his aggressive pitching style, Roger Clemens played pro ball for more than two decades, racking up seven Cy Youngs. He left Major League Baseball under a cloud of steroid allegations, despite a court finding him not guilty of perjury when he told Congress he never used the drugs. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – At 6-foot-5 and 260 pounds, Alistair Overeem is known for putting mixed martial arts star Brock Lesnar into early retirement. Ahead of a heavyweight title match against UFC champion Junior dos Santos in May, Overeem tested positive for elevated levels of testosterone and was yanked from the card. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – An early and chief accuser of Armstrong, Floyd Landis was himself stripped of his 2006 Tour de France title after testing positive for performance-enhancing drugs. He admitted doping in 2010, the same year he accused many other riders of doping as well. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – As the most decorated Olympian ever, with 22 medals, Michael Phelps is known as a fish in human's clothing, but for a brief period in 2009, after a photo of him smoking a bong was made public, he also was known as a pothead. Despite losing sponsors, he quickly became known for swimming again, securing six medals in the 2012 Games. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – Marion Jones was a world champion track and field athlete who won several titles in the 1990s and five medals during the 2000 Olympic Games in Sydney, Australia. After admitting in 2007 that she had taken performance-enhancing drugs, she was stripped of the gold medals and other honors won after the 2000 Games. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – Known as "Lights Out" after knocking out four players in a high school game, Shawne Merriman entered the NFL with fanfare, earning 2005 Rookie of the Year honors. His 2006 suspension for steroid use prompted the "Merriman Rule," prohibiting any player who tests positive for steroids from going to the Pro Bowl that year. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – After his former Texas Rangers teammate Jose Canseco accused him of using steroids, Rafael Palmeiro appeared before Congress to deny the allegations. Later that year, he was suspended from baseball for testing positive for steroids. He maintains to this day he has never knowingly taken performance enhancers. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – Few NBA players have tested positive for steroids, not only because the sport relies less on raw strength and speed than other sports but also because the league didn't begin testing until 1999. Miami Heat forward Don MacLean became the first to fail a test in 2000, and he was suspended for five games. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – After racking up awards in college football, Ricky Williams was picked in the first round of the pro football draft in 1999. After testing positive for marijuana in 2004 as a Miami Dolphin, Williams retired and studied holistic medicine in California. He returned to the Dolphins the following year, only to have more run-ins with the NFL drug policy. He retired again in 2011. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – Bill Romanowski was known for hard hits on the gridiron, but he also violently attacked teammate Marcus Williams during a scrimmage while playing for the Oakland Raiders. In a lawsuit, Williams blamed the attack on Romanowski's "roid rage." Romanowski settled the suit and in 2005 admitted to "60 Minutes" that he used steroids. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – Sprinter Tim Montgomery set the world record in the 100-meter dash in 2002, but the time was scratched after he was found to have used performance-enhancing drugs. Since his retirement, he has had other legal troubles including arrests for money laundering and heroin offenses. He was sentenced to jail time for both. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – An Olympian and renowned longball hitter, Mark McGwire spent his entire career with the Oakland A's and St. Louis Cardinals, breaking the single-season home run record in 1998. In 2010, he admitted using steroids over the course of a decade but told Bob Costas in an interview he took them only for health reasons. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – Ross Rebagliati won a gold medal during the first year of snowboarding at the 1988 Olympics. He was stripped of the medal after testing positive for the active ingredient in marijuana. It became fodder for late-night talk show jokes, but Rebagliati eventually got his medal back after it was determined marijuana was not a banned substance. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – A winner of eight Grand Slam events, Andre Agassi was considered one of the most dominant tennis players of the 1990s. In 2009, the tennis pro acknowledged in his autobiography that he had failed a drug test for methamphetamine in 1997 but skirted punishment by blaming an assistant. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – Regarded as the best soccer player after Pele, Diego Maradona was known for his deft footwork and knack for finding the net. In 1991, he was suspended for 15 months after testing positive for cocaine. He would later admit he was addicted to the drug for about 20 years and began using when he was playing for Barcelona in the 1980s. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Photos: Drug scandals in sports Drug scandals in sports – A prolific sprinter in the 1980s, Canadian Ben Johnson routinely bested American Carl Lewis in the 100-meter dash. After winning the gold at Seoul in 1988, Johnson tested positive for a steroid. His coach said Johnson took the drugs to keep up with other athletes and later wrote a book saying all top athletes were using in those days. Hide Caption 20 of 20After leaving the hearing, Rodriguez released a statement saying he was "disgusted with this abusive process, designed to ensure that the player fails."JUST WATCHED A-Rod on commissioner: He hates me Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A-Rod on commissioner: He hates me 01:55"I have sat through 10 days of testimony by felons and liars, sitting quietly through every minute, trying to respect the league and the process," Rodriguez said. "This morning after Bud Selig refused to come in and testify about his rationale for the unprecedented and totally baseless punishment he hit me with, the arbitrator selected by MLB and the players' association refused to order Selig to come in and face me."The absurdity and injustice just became too much. I walked out and will not participate any further in this farce."A spokesman for Major League Baseball told CNN that the league will continue to take part."Despite Mr. Rodriguez being upset with one of the arbitration panel's rulings today, Major League Baseball remains committed to this process and to a fair resolution of the pending dispute," Pat Courtney said.The players' union said it disagrees with the decision that the commissioner doesn't have to testify, saying players have the right to face their accusers.Rodriguez told WFAN he invited Selig to talk in person in early in 2013 but the commissioner declined."I think they wanted this big spectacle, and they got it," he said on WFAN.He said Selig has a personal problem with him and is "trying to destroy me."The suspension involves Biogenesis, the former anti-aging clinic in South Florida that MLB says supplied steroids to at least a dozen baseball players.Rodriguez was one of 14 players suspended in the Biogenesis scandal and is the only one who appealed his suspension. Though he was suspended in August, Rodriguez played out the 2013 season because he appealed.Rodriguez, 38, is fifth on MLB's list of all-time home run leaders, just six runs behind Willie Mays. He would make $25 million in 2014 if his suspension is overturned. If his suspension is upheld, he won't be eligible to return until 49 games into the 2015 season.