Story highlights "Victim 9" was one of 10 victims in the Jerry Sandusky sexual abuse caseHe claims he was unable to reach a settlement with Penn State University26 men have settled claims totaling $59.7 million, the university said in OctoberSandusky was convicted in 2012 in a case that scandalized the fabled college football programA victim in the sexual abuse case against Jerry Sandusky has sued Penn State University , saying he couldn't reach a settlement with the university over claims that the longtime assistant football coach abused him.The man, known only as "Victim 9," is one of 10 victims who were part of the criminal trial, in which the Nittany Lions' former defensive coordinator was convicted on 45 counts of sexual abuse in June 2012.Since the trial, 26 men have settled claims with Penn State totaling $59.7 million in connection with the Sandusky scandal, the university announced last month.Sandusky, currently serving a 30- to 60-year sentence, has always maintained that he is innocent and wrongly convicted of abusing young boys he met through his charity, The Second Mile.Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Former Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky leaves the Centre County Courthouse in handcuffs after a jury found him guilty in his sex abuse trial on Friday, June 22. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky is escorted in handuffs to a police car at the Centre County Courthouse under the glare of TV lights. The jury found Sandusky guilty on 45 of 48 counts. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Defense attorney Joe Amendola talks to the media after the trial. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Dottie Sandusky, who has been married to Sandusky for 46 years, walks with her husband while jurors deliberate. She testified that she did not witness any sexual abuse. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Matt Sandusky, one of Jerry Sandusky's six adopted children, said Thursday through his attorney that he also was sexually abused and was prepared to testify. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Shadows of the media are seen outside the courthouse during the second day of deliberations. Jurors took 21 hours over two days to convict Sandusky on 45 of 48 charges against him. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky's attorney Joe Amendola arrives at the courthouse Friday. After the conviction, Amendola announced plans to appeal despite the mountain of convictions against his client. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Judge John Cleland walks into the courthouse. Once the jury reached its decision, he revoked Sandusky's bail and ordered his arrest. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Prosecutor Joseph E. McGettigan III, second from left, and the rest of his prosecution team arrive at the courthouse Friday. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – A crowd gathers outside the Centre County Courthouse in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, to await the Sandusky verdict. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky faces the cameras as he is led to a sheriff's vehicle in handcuffs after the reading of the verdict. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky is put into a police car. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Photos: Jerry Sandusky convicted Jerry Sandusky convicted – Sandusky was booked into the Centre County Correctional Facility. Hide Caption 13 of 13Many of the victims were abused on Penn State's campus, and some even after two incidents allegedly were brought to the university's attention -- once in 1998 and again in 2001.Victim 9 was raped repeatedly starting in 2005 when he was 12 years old, and ending around the time that another victim's allegations finally started a police investigation into Sandusky's decades of abuse."By the time this boy was introduced to Sandusky on the Penn State Campus, the top administrators at Penn State knew that Sandusky was a sexual predator," the man's attorney, Stephen E. Raynes, said in a press release. "It's now clear that Penn State enabled Sandusky to sexually abuse more than twenty other children before Sandusky preyed on this boy. Each of those tragic assaults provided Penn State with the opportunity to stop Sandusky, opportunities which Penn State squandered. We will learn through this lawsuit why that happened and what additional lessons Penn State should learn from this tragic episode in its history."Raynes said Victim 9 tried to negotiate a settlement with Penn State, but the university refused "to compensate him adequately for what he needs and deserves."Penn State's former president, vice president and athletic director are all awaiting trial on charges they lied to a grand jury, obstructed justice and failed to report allegations of abuse reported to them in 2001.The abuse scandal resulted in the dismissal, in November 2011, of legendary head coach Joe Paterno amid allegations that he failed to respond forcefully enough to reports of Sandusky's crimes. Paterno died just weeks later, on January 22, 2012, at age 85.Penn State has said a few other claims by Sandusky victims have not yet been settled.