(CNN) Many of them had known each other for years. That's no surprise in a small town like Sutherland Springs, Texas, where lives intersect daily on the street, at school and in church.On Sunday when Devin Kelley walked into the First Baptist Church with an assault rifle, authorities say he took 25 of those lives and that of an unborn child.On Wednesday, law enforcement officials released the names and ages of all the victims. Family members had come forward earlier with details and photos of their slain loved ones.Here's what we know so far about the people who died:Sara and Dennis JohnsonSara and Dennis Johnson were members of the First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs for 11 years.Dennis Johnson, 77, and his wife, Sara, 68, who were members of First Baptist, died in the shooting, said Kati Wall, one of the couple's six children.The Johnsons, who celebrated their 44th wedding anniversary on July 27, were expecting their fourth great-grandchild, according to a GoFundMe page set up by a relative.They were "two of the kindest people you would ever know," the web page said.Dennis Johnson was an appointed church elder. He served in the US Navy Reserves and the Army National Guard, according to the GoFundMe page. Johnson later joined the American Legion.Sara Johnson was remembered as an adoring mother and grandmother. She volunteered in a church nursery for more than three decades, according to the web page.She also worked for the Wilson County tax office for more than a decade and most recently for a local home and garden business in nearby Floresville.The couple joined First Baptist 11 years ago. Before then, they were members of a Baptist church in Floresville for 25 years.Lula WhiteLula White was the grandmother of the shooter's wife.She was the grandmother of Kelley's wife.White, 71, volunteered frequently at the church, according to friends and her Facebook profile."I have no doubt where she is right now. She is in heaven laying her crowns and jewels at the feet of Jesus and celebrating. I love and will miss you Aunt Lula Woicinski White," niece Amy Backus wrote on Facebook.Another family member, Charity Sales, posted to Facebook, "Aunt Lula Woicinski White will be missed greatly, I don't think there was ever a time I saw her she didn't have a smile on her face and a crazy fun tactic up her sleeve."Annabelle PomeroyAnnabelle Pomeroy was the daughter of the pastor, who was traveling at the time of the shooting.She was the 14-year-old daughter of Sherri and Frank Pomeroy, the church's regular pastor who was traveling when the shooting occurred."We lost more than Belle yesterday, and the one thing that gives me a sliver of encouragement is the fact that Belle was surrounded by her church family that she loved fiercely, and vice versa," Sherri Pomeroy said Monday."We ate together, we laughed together, we cried together, and we worshipped together. Now most of our church family is gone, our building is probably beyond repair and the few of us that are left behind lost tragically yesterday."As senseless as this tragedy was, our sweet Belle would not have been able to deal with losing so much family."In one sermon posted online, Frank Pomeroy, who rode a motorcycle, spoke about taking his daughter on a ride.Haley KruegerHaley Krueger loved children and wanted to become a nurse, her mother says.The 16-year-old had helped with breakfast that morning at the church, said her mother, Charlene Marie Uhl.Haley loved babies and looked forward to a career as a nurse in a neonatal intensive care unit, she said. She also enjoyed attending the Sutherland Springs church."She was a vibrant 16-year-old that loved life," her mother said.The Holcombes, and family friend Tara Elyse McNultyIn this collage, left to right, from top: Noah Holcombe, 17 months, deceased; Evelyn Hill, injured; Noah with mother Jenni Holcombe and father Danny Holcombe, deceased; family friend Tara Elyse McNulty, deceased, with son James; Bryan and Karla Holcombe, both deceased; Megan Hill, deceased; Karla Holcombe with Noah and another grandchild; Crystal Holcombe, who was pregnant, deceased; and McNulty.Eight members of the Holcombe family died in the shooting, as well as an unborn child.Bryan Holcombe, 60, was the guest pastor on Sunday. He lived on a farm in Floresville with his wife, Karla, 58, said Ron Scott, a cousin to the Holcombe family. Karla Holcombe was also killed.The others in the family who died were Danny Holcombe, 36, Bryan and Karla Holcombe's son; Noah Holcombe, Danny's 17-month-old daughter; Crystal Holcombe, 36, the pregnant wife of Bryan and Karla's other son, John, who survived the shooting; and three of Crystal Holcombe's five children -- Emily, 11, Megan, 9, and Greg Hill, 13 -- to whom John Holcombe was stepfather.Authorities have included Crystal Holcombe's unborn child in the death toll of 26.Two of her children survived and are in the hospital with John Holcombe.Tara Elyse McNulty, 33, a close friend of the family, also died. She lived with Bryan and Karla Holcombe and called them Mom and Dad, Ron Scott said.Richard and Theresa RodriguezTheresa and Richard Rodriguez were active in the First Baptish Church in Sutherland Springs.Richard and Theresa Rodriguez had been married for 11 years, and were longtime members of the church, according to Richard's daughter Regina. She said her dad and stepmom were active in the church."If they weren't at church, they were always in their yard working on their garden beds or cutting the grass," Regina said."He loved music. My favorite memories was waking up on a Saturday morning and watching 'Soul Train' with him, and '80s movies."Regina said her dad, 64, and stepmother, 66, sometimes would take her children for the weekend and take them to church on Sundays. The children were not with them on the day of the shooting.She said her father was "country," and her oldest son liked to wear the same style of pants, boots and hats as his grandfather."The oldest ones, they're the ones that are taking it hard," she said. "Especially my Justin -- he really looked up to my dad ... just waiting for my dad to pull up when he would come on the weekends."Robert and Shani CorriganShani and Robert Corrigan were married for more than 30 years.Originally from Harrison, Michigan, Robert and Shani Corrigan, both 51, had moved to Texas, where they became part of the praise team at the Sutherland Springs church.Robert Corrigan had served in the Air Force for 29 years, according to Renee Haley, director of Veterans Services in Clare County, Michigan. He was a track star in high school and valedictorian of his class, CNN affiliate WWTV reported.The Corrigans were high school sweethearts who married in 1985 after graduation.Their son, Forrest, died last year, and the pastor at First Baptist officiated the funeral. Two other sons are on active duty, Haley said in a statement.Robert Corrigan, known to those who loved him as Bobby, "loved life, everything he did was to the extreme," his uncle, Bob Sommers, told WWTV. "He was a pleasure to be around."As members of the Harrison community gathered to remember the victims, Robert's mother, Jean-Anne Corrigan, told CNN affiliate WDIV that she believes both her son and his wife are in heaven."God is in control, and I know that my son and my daughter-in-law are in the arms of Jesus," she said. "I know that."David Roll, who recently served with Robert Corrigan at Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska, said he "was extremely intelligent but also had one of the zaniest senses of humor you could imagine."Corrigan, a chief master sergeant and the hospital superintendent on the base, wrote a song for an anti-drinking and driving campaign on the base, Roll said in a Facebook message to CNN."He was extremely charitable and would help anyone, including taking in a homeless friend of his late son," Roll said.Joann Ward, Brooke Ward and Emily GarzaJoann Ward with daughters, from left, Brooke Ward and Emily Garza.Joann Ward, 30, and daughters Brooke Ward, 5, and Emily Garza, 7, were killed in Sunday's shooting, according to Rob Smith, Joann Ward's brother-in-law.She leaves behind her husband, Chris Ward, and two surviving children, Ryland and Rihanna Ward. Ryland was hospitalized after being shot several times in the attack.Karen and Robert Scott MarshallKaren and Robert Scott Marshall were attending the Sutherland Springs church for the first time.Robert Scott Marshall and his wife, Karen, both 56, recently moved to Texas from Pennsylvania and were attending First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs for the first time.His sister Holly Hannum said he went by his middle name, Scott, and called him "a great guy.""He would have given you the shirt off his back and would've helped you do anything," she told CNN affiliate WTAE.He was a veteran, and Karen was also in the service. She was planning on retiring, her father-in-law, Robert Marshall, told CNN affiliate WPXI. He added that his son worked on engines.He learned of the death of his son on his 85th birthday."Heck of a birthday present," the elder Marshall said. "It's a shame that you can go pray and be shot up."Peggy Lynn WardenPeggy Lynn Warden "was the foundation to the familly," said her sister.Warden, 56, loved to help other people, said her sister, Leisa Kugler."My sister was the most loving and generous Christian woman," Kugler told CNN. "She was a quiet person but she was the center of our family. She was the one we all looked for when something happened. She was the foundation of this family."Kugler told this story about the photo of Warden shown above."The picture that you see where she is holding some branches, she was standing on a roof," Kugler said. "I am terrified of heights but I needed to get these branches cleaned up, so she came over and got up there. ... I was terrified, but that is just who she is. She just loved to help others."Keith Allen BradenIndiana resident Bruce Braden, told the IndyStar newspaper that his brother Keith, 62, and his family regularly attended the church. Keith worked in a local grocery store, Bruce said, and his wife Debbie is a homemaker. Debbie, and their 6-year-old granddaughter were also attending the service and were injured in the shooting.Keith's wife and granddaughter have undergone surgery and are recuperating in the hospital. They both look like they will recover, Bruce told the IndyStar, but the girl may lose the use of her leg.Keith, who came from a military family, had undergone chemotherapy recently and, according to his brother, was putting weight back on and looking forward to spending more time with the family.Bruce says he called several family members on the day of the shooting, but held off calling his brother as he knew he would be in church. "I didn't get that call in the last day he was alive," he said."He was a good father. He was strict and fair, but loving. He was a good provider and a good husband."CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story incorrectly reported that Evelyn Hill was among the three Hill children killed. Evelyn was injured but survived. Her brother Greg was killed. This story has also been updated with the correct spelling of Shani Corrigan's name.