(CNN) We've survived Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Now, gear up for Giving Tuesday . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President TrumpThe President of the United States, during a White House event honoring World War II's Navajo code talkers, makes a "Pocahontas" crack about a sitting US senator. No, it's not an "SNL" skit, it's real life in 2017. And all this happened in front of a portrait of Andrew Jackson , the former President who signed the legislation that led to the Trail of Tears. No, really. The blowback was intense, with Sen. Elizabeth Warren (the target of President Trump's insult), Native American advocacy groups and others slamming the President. White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said it wasn't a racial slur.2. Anti-bullying mom chargedA Virginia mom's action to take on her daughter's alleged bullies has led to a felony charge -- against her. After Sarah Sim's daughter complained about being bullied at her elementary school, Sims talked to school administrators, but she said she got no response. So, she p ut an audio recorder in her daughter's backpack , hoping to catch the bullies in the act. The school found out about it and confiscated the device. Now, Sims is charged with a felony for the recording and faces up to five years in prison, if convicted.3. Bali volcanoJUST WATCHED Watch how active Bali's volcano has been Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch how active Bali's volcano has been 01:164. USS FitzgeraldJUST WATCHED CNN goes inside a Navy warship Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN goes inside a Navy warship 05:505. Royal engagementAn American is about to join the British royal family, and the world couldn't be happier. Prince Harry will marry actress Meghan Markle next spring. The pair had a brief appearance at Kensington Palace, where Markle showed off the ring. Later, in a TV interview , they talked about the proposal, with Markle saying she barely let the prince finish proposing before saying yes.Americans were a bit disappointed to learn that Markle won't be Princess Meghan . She'll probably become a duchess, since Prince Harry is likely to be named a duke when they are married.JUST WATCHED Prince Harry & Meghan: The ring and the romance Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Prince Harry & Meghan: The ring and the romance 01:41QUOTE OF THE DAY"Our reputation is tarnished by honoring those who turn a blind eye to violence."JUST WATCHED Who is Aung San Suu Kyi? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Aung San Suu Kyi? 01:41BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Right to remain silentIf you find yourself chatting up a cop in Bangor, Maine, there are six things they don't want to hear from you.Thanks, dadHer dad died five years ago, but she still got a birthday card and flowers from him when she turned 21.JUST WATCHED Late father's note to daughter goes viral Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Late father's note to daughter goes viral 01:07Social sensationMeet Tuzki the Rabbit, the animated character that's a social media superstar in China.JUST WATCHED Meet China's social sensation Tuzki Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meet China's social sensation Tuzki 01:51Take twoWHAT'S FOR LUNCHJoy and painNUMBER OF THE DAY3That's the number of weeks it takes to sell a house these days, says the National Association of Realtors. Five years ago, it took about 11 weeks.AND FINALLY ...Whatever it takes