(CNN) We're learning more about the suspect and the plans behind this week's deadly New York City terror attack. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. NYC terror attackSayfullo Saipov, the man accused of killing eight people in this week's terror attack in New York, is reportedly talking to authorities . What he has to say is chilling: According to a criminal complaint, he allegedly "felt good about what he had done" and had been planning the attack for a yearSaipov told investigators he was inspired by ISIS videos, and investigators found 90 videos and 3,800 images that appeared to be ISIS-related propaganda on one of his cell phones, the complaint says.Saipov was charged with federal terrorism offenses in Tuesday's attack, but President Donald Trump tweeted that he should "GET DEATH PENALTY." Trump also vowed to terminate the visa lottery program that help bring Saipov to the United States and branded the justice system a " laughingstock ."2. Facebook and RussiaThe House Intelligence Committee released a small sample of the 3,000 ads a Russian troll farm purchased on Facebook during the 2016 US presidential election. They focused on divisive issues such as immigration, religion and race, and some mentioned Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders by name.Some of the ads were sophisticated attempts to appeal to certain interest groups or races. Others pushed false missions, such as a petition to remove Clinton from the ballot or an ad claiming you could vote via Twitter. A few were just downright bizarre, such as an image of Satan and Jesus arm-wrestling for the country's future. Really.JUST WATCHED Lawmaker hammer Facebook, Twitter, Google again Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lawmaker hammer Facebook, Twitter, Google again 02:593. Brett RatnerIn a Los Angeles Times story published Wednesday, six women, including actresses Olivia Munn and Natasha Henstridge, accused Ratner of allegations ranging from sexual assault to harassment in incidents in private homes, at industry events and on movie sets. Among other things, Munn accused Ratner of touching himself in front of her, and Henstridge accused him of physically forcing her to perform sexual acts. Rattner's attorney says his client "vehemently denies the outrageous derogatory allegations."JUST WATCHED Not just Hollywood: Survivors share their stories Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Not just Hollywood: Survivors share their stories 02:014. North KoreaNorth Korea is working on an advanced version of its existing KN-20 intercontinental ballistic missile that could potentially reach the United States, according to a US official. This newly assessed ICBM is just one part of an accelerated effort by Kim Jong Un's regime to improve every part of its missile and nuclear weapons attack capability as quickly as possible. While it's scary news all around, the development chiefly means the United States has to recalculate the timing of the threat that a North Korean missile could pose to the country, and rethink what kind of response would be most effective.JUST WATCHED Report: North Korea launches missiles Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Report: North Korea launches missiles 02:195. Osama bin LadenThe CIA has released a huge collection of files connected with the 2011 raid that led to the killing of Osama bin Laden . This newly released info includes the al Qaeda founder's personal journal. CIA Director Mike Pompeo said the release "provides the opportunity for the American people to gain further insights into the plans and workings of this terrorist organization."However, it also provides some unexpected insight into the bin Laden family's viewing tastes. The CIA has withheld some material on the grounds of security or copyright, including family movies such as "Cars," "Chicken Little" and "Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs" as well as the documentaries "Where in the World is Osama bin Laden?" and "CNN Presents: World's Most Wanted."JUST WATCHED How bin Laden became the face of terror Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How bin Laden became the face of terror 01:00BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Houston wins the World Series.It's the It's the Astros' first World Series title , so be happy for them.Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series The Houston Astros celebrate after defeating the Los Angeles Dodgers 5-1 in Game 7 of the World Series on Wednesday, November 1. It is the first time the Astros have won the World Series. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Astros catcher Brian McCann hugs pitcher Charlie Morton after the final out. Morton got the win, pitching the last four innings of the game. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Houston third baseman Alex Bregman celebrates after the victory. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Houston shortstop Carlos Correa leaps for joy after the final out. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Dodgers outfielder Yasiel Puig watches the Astros celebrate. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Bregman carries second baseman Jose Altuve during the postgame celebrations. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series The Astros celebrate together at the postgame ceremony. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series The Dodgers watch from the top step of the dugout during the eighth inning. They fell behind 5-0 after two innings and never got much momentum going. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Andre Ethier drives in the Dodgers' only run while pinch-hitting for Clayton Kershaw in the sixth inning. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Kershaw, the Dodgers' ace, came into the game in the third inning and threw four shutout innings. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Puig reacts after flying out in the third inning. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series George Springer celebrates after hitting a home run to give the Astros a 5-0 lead in the second inning. The two-run blast was Springer's fifth home run of the series, tying a World Series record. He was later named World Series MVP. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Marwin Gonzalez hits a double off Dodgers starting pitcher Yu Darvish early in the second inning. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Darvish reacts to a rough first inning in which he gave up two runs. He was pulled in the second after giving up the home run to Springer. Darvish went just 1 2/3 innings in both of his World Series starts. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Houston starter Lance McCullers Jr. throws a pitch during the first inning. McCullers didn't give up a run in 2 1/3 innings of work, but he hit four batters. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Springer is greeted in the dugout after scoring a run in the first inning. He opened the game with a double. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Bregman reacts after scoring the opening run of the game. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Astros win Game 7, first World Series Actors Rob Lowe, right, and Ken Jeong wave Dodger flags on top of a dugout before the game. Many celebrities were in attendance. Hide Caption 18 of 18Disney unveils the cast for 2019's "Lion King" remake and people are screaming over it.Beyoncé! James Earl Jones! Beyoncé! James Earl Jones! Disney is trying to give us all heart attacksPapa John's says NFL protests are hurting sales.Not entirely sure Not entirely sure how that's supposed to work, but OKMichelle Obama gives advice to young people on when to tweet.The answer is never. The answer is never. Never tweetQUOTE OF THE DAY"I wish them the very best. That's what every American should wish for the people in the White House since they are our President and first family."Former first lady Laura Bush, on the Trumps and , on the Trumps and the challenges the first family facesAND FINALLY ...You think it's just a tangerine being peeled, but ...