If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) It might be time to grab your tinfoil hat. There's a campaign afoot by the conspiracy-minded to storm Area 51 to "see them aliens."Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Tropical Storm BarryBarry may or may not be a hurricane when it makes landfall early tomorrow in Louisiana. Either way, this is a dangerous storm that people need to take seriously. The first tropical system to threaten the US this year poses a triple flooding threat to Louisiana via storm surge, high rivers and rain. The storm presents New Orleans with an unprecedented problem : The Mississippi River is usually at 6 to 8 feet this time of year there, but it's at 16 feet now, and Barry threatens a storm surge of 2 to 3 feet. That means the river could crest tomorrow at 19 feet, a level not seen in almost 70 years. Barry also could dump as much as 10 inches of rain before it moves out. Some Louisiana parishes have instituted mandatory evacuations for low-lying areas. Click here to keep up with the latest on Barry and follow its track . Meantime in the Northeast, a separate, drenching storm system has killed two people in Pennsylvania.2. PoliticsMeanwhile, across town at the US Capitol, infighting between House Democrats reached a startling new level. US Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez accused House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of "singling out" freshman congresswomen of color. Ocasio-Cortez said while she doesn't think Pelosi is a racist, she did find the speaker's recent comments about progressives "disrespectful." Pelosi was muted in her reaction, saying only, "We respect the value of every member of our caucus." The tension highlights the tough balancing act that Pelosi faces as she tries to keep the liberal and moderate wings of her caucus united.JUST WATCHED AOC claims Pelosi 'singling out' congresswomen of color Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH AOC claims Pelosi 'singling out' congresswomen of color 02:443. R. Kelly arrestR. Kelly took his dog out for a walk last night and ended up in police custody. The embattled singer was arrested in Chicago on federal sex crime charges , sources told CNN. He's charged with sex trafficking in New York and attempting to influence a case in Atlanta. Those add to the other charges he's facing. Kelly in February was charged with 10 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse; he pleaded not guilty. Then, a grand jury in May indicted him on 11 more charges. Kelly has been dogged by sex abuse allegations for decades, but those accusations gained heightened scrutiny after this year's Lifetime documentary series, "Surviving R. Kelly."JUST WATCHED R. Kelly's former hairdresser details alleged sexual assault (March) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH R. Kelly's former hairdresser details alleged sexual assault (March) 01:584. ImmigrationJUST WATCHED ICE raids on undocumented immigrants to begin soon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH ICE raids on undocumented immigrants to begin soon 01:285. Secondhand smokeYou might feel pretty good about your health because you don't smoke. But if your coworkers still like to light on up on the job, it can put your health in danger. Almost 20% of nonsmoking workers in the US were exposed to secondhand smoke while on the job, a CDC report out yesterday says. That's important to note because people who don't smoke but are exposed to secondhand smoke can still be at risk for heart disease, lung cancer and stroke. An estimated 41,000 adult nonsmoker deaths were linked to secondhand smoke in 2013 and 2014.JUST WATCHED Vaping could increase risk of heart attacks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Vaping could increase risk of heart attacks 01:03THIS JUST IN ...Wedding attackedFive people were killed and 40 injured in a suicide bombing during a wedding in Afghanistan. Authorities think the attacker was a childBREAKFAST BROWSEPlease produce your driver's license and radiationA traffic stop in Oklahoma produced a gun, some whiskey, a rattlesnake and (checks notes) ... uranium. Wait, what?Case closedIf you're a fan of ABC's legal drama, "How to Get Away with Murder," prep for the end. The show's upcoming sixth season will be its lastJUST WATCHED Shonda Rhimes is a Hollywood powerhouse Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shonda Rhimes is a Hollywood powerhouse 01:42Why we can't have nice thingsWhile soccer star Allie Long was being honored with the rest of her World Cup-winning teammates, someone broke into her LA hotel room . :(What was she smoking?Do "Moana" and marijuana sound alike? They do to the baker who made a marijuana-themed birthday cakeBowie BarbieBarbie gets yet another makeover. This time the doll channels David Bowie's 1970s alter ego , Ziggy Stardust.TOTAL RECALLQuiz timePresident Trump's tariffs on goods imported from China could lead to an unexpected shortage of this item.A. GunsB. LampsC. BiblesD. Car partsPlay " Total Recall ," CNN's weekly news quiz, to see if your answer is correct.TODAY'S NUMBER27,088JUST WATCHED Jerome Powell hints that Federal Reserve may cut rates Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jerome Powell hints that Federal Reserve may cut rates 00:46AND FINALLYA numbers game