San Juan, Puerto Rico (CNN) Erica Diaz's 6-year-old daughter convinced her to join the burgeoning protest movement against Puerto Rico Gov. Ricardo Rosselló . The 40-year-old stay-at-home mom had never attended a protest."She said, 'Mami, you taught me to respect all people. We shouldn't make fun of people. Why aren't we out there with the people?'" Diaz said. Her daughter, Valerie, had just finished first grade. "She's the reason I'm here," Diaz said.Valerie held a sign with a hand-drawn Puerto Rican flag andthe message, "Don't close our schools" -- one in a litany of complaints against the governor. They stood in the shade on the side of a highway in the capital of San Juan as hundreds of thousands of marchers shut down traffic Monday in a series of island-wide protests."We want a better country when I grow up," Valerie said.A year and a half after Hurricane Maria devastated the US territory, political unrest has taken hold of the island.A broad cross-section of society turned out on Monday for what many residents said was the largest demonstration they could remember.First-time marchers were there alongside retired teachers and social workers, union members and longtime political activists, pro-statehood residents and supporters of independence. (The US acquired Puerto Rico after the Spanish-American War of 1898, and it's been a territory since 1952. Rosselló is pro-statehood.)Leaked messages expose simmering grievancesThey took to the streets after a series of crude, sexist and homophobic chat messages between the embattled governor and his closest aides were made public earlier this month.In one fell swoop, Rosselló and members of his inner circle offended nearly every one of the island's 3 million residents, taking aim at women, gay people, overweight people, a revered independence movement leader who died of cancer, and the thousands of victims of the devastating 2017 hurricane.The chat messages lit the fire -- but the tinder had been building for some time."Rosselló and his chat messages put into words what we have been feeling as people for a long time," Cynthia García Coll, a psychologist who teaches at the University of Puerto Rico at Rio Piedras, said at an anti-Rosselló street concert the night before the big march."That we are nothing. They can take our pensions. They can lower our salaries. They can take away our vacation time. They can take away our Christmas bonuses."Cynthia Garcia Coll, a psychologist who teaches at the University of Puerto Rico at Rio Piedras, attends an anti-Rosselló street concert.Rosselló becomes face of longstanding political and economic woesEarlier this month, days before the leaked chats, FBI agents arrested two ranking Rosselló officials for allegedly directing contracts worth millions to politically connected firms.Long before this popular wave of rage and indignation, generations of Puerto Ricans endured epic levels of corruption and mismanagement at the hands of the political class, many demonstrators said.Many lived through the scandal-plagued tenure of the governor's father, Pedro Rosselló, who served as governor in the 1990s.Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters celebrate in Old San Juan, Puerto Rico, after Gov. Ricardo Rosselló announced that he will resign. Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Puerto Ricans wave flags in celebration of Rosselló's resignation. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators react in front of the governor's mansion, known as La Fortaleza. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People in the crowd hold flowers and flags outside the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A demonstrator rejoices after Rosselló announced his resignation. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Jubilant demonstrators are seen in the streets of Old San Juan. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A woman celebrates near La Fortaleza. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A Puerto Rican man cheers after the resignation of Rosselló. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A demonstrator listens to Rosselló's resignation message on a cell phone. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters rally in San Juan on Wednesday, July 24. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators react Tuesday, July 23, upon hearing reports that Rosselló would step down. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police clash with protesters during demonstrations against Rosselló on Monday, July 22. The protests continued into Tuesday morning. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A protester throws a tear gas canister toward police in San Juan. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A protester reacts to tear gas outside the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters run away from tear gas near the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A line of police moves toward demonstrators. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A woman confronts police in riot gear. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters disperse in a cloud of tear gas. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People hold up their phones during the rally outside the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters demonstrate near a police barricade set up along a street leading to the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation This aerial view, taken from a drone, shows protesters on the Expreso Las Americas highway on Monday. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People join the rally against Rosselló on Monday. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A masked man protests in San Juan. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters block the way to Rosselló's residence on Monday. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Puerto Rican pop star Ricky Martin, waving a rainbow flag, joins the protests on Monday. Members of the group chat that Rosselló took part in made vulgar references to the star's sexuality. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Puerto Ricans in San Juan demand Rosselló's resignation on Monday. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters attach a banner to a highway sign. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Singer Daddy Yankee, in the flag shirt, attends the rally on Monday. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A woman is assisted in the streets after demonstrators clashed with police on Wednesday, July 17. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police fire tear gas at demonstrators on July 17. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police officers search the bag of a detained demonstrator on July 17. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Rosselló defended the actions of police and accused protesters of unleashing tear gas and setting fires during demonstrations. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Thousands of demonstrators protest in front of the governor's mansion on July 17. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A protester reacts after being sprayed by tear gas in San Juan. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Rapper Benito Antonio Martinez Ocasio, known by his stage name Bad Bunny, holds a Puerto Rican flag before a march on July 17. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Ricky Martin holds a microphone during the march on July 17. At right is rapper Rene Perez, aka Residente. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People gather to demand Rosselló's resignation on July 17. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police block the street leading to the governor's mansion on Tuesday, July 16. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Rosselló attends a news conference in San Juan on July 16. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters gather near the executive mansion on Monday, July 15. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators cover their mouths with duct tape that says "resignation" in Spanish. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters take to the streets of San Juan on July 15. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A police officer blocks protesters from reaching the governor's residence on Sunday, July 14. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police block the street leading to the governor's mansion on July 14. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators hold signs that say "Corruption is violence" and "Ricky resign" while protesting near the executive mansion on Thursday, July 11. Hide Caption 45 of 45Now Rosselló and his government have given a name and face to long-festering political and economic wounds, according to many demonstrators."Ricky, renuncia!" ("Ricky, resign!") has become the mantra of the nightly gatherings of boisterous demonstrators on the cobblestone streets one block from governor's mansion, a historic 16th-century structure known as La Fortaleza."This is a historic moment," Elba Nazario, 63, who retired after working 30 years as a teacher, said near the governor's mansion Sunday night. "There is no turning back. It's very emotional. I've sat on this street and cried from seeing so many people, young and old, come out."Elba Nazario, a retired teacher, protests near the governor's mansion."We march for all Puerto Ricans," said Mariana Rivera, 77, as four of her teenage grandchildren pushed her wheelchair under a blistering sun along Las Americas expressway. "What will we leave for our children?"Governor admits 'mistakes' but won't to step downA 12-year economic recession and Puerto Rico's ballooning debt crisis resulted in shuttered schools, cuts in government services, layoffs and university tuition hikes. In 2016, the US Congress created a board to oversee the island's finances -- a body that has become a target of the protesters.for the year and a half that remains of his term. On Sunday night, Rosselló said he would not seek reelection in 2020, but would stay in officefor the year and a half that remains of his term."I am aware of the dissatisfaction and discomfort you have," he said on Facebook Live. "I have heard you, and I hear you today. I have made mistakes, and I have apologized."During a tense interview with Fox News Monday, Rosselló said he's "not making light of the demonstrations."'This is the beginning of a revolution,' protester saysJUST WATCHED On the ground as Puerto Rico's political protests erupt Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH On the ground as Puerto Rico's political protests erupt 03:42Still, the protesters vow to continue until he steps down, accusing the governor of exacerbating the crisis."It hurts to see my people going through so much," said Alfredo Ruiz, 47, tears in his eyes as he drove away from massive march along the San Juan expressway. "This government laughs at us. They have no heart."On a humid Monday evening, hundreds of flag- and sign-waving demonstrators packed the narrow streets of Old San Juan in a mostly festive gathering, featuring drums and the music of the island. It grew increasingly tense after 8 p.m."Our generation awakened this longing to rebel against politics," said Nayelez Andino, 18, from the town of Bayamon."Our parents, our grandparents for a long time sided with one party or the another. But we're fighting for our future. That's at risk. What will our children grow up to?"Standing with a friend among the hundreds of protesters near the governor's mansion, she added, "This doesn't end. This is the beginning of a revolution."On the other side of a barrier, a phalanx of riot police cut off access to La Fortaleza. Dozens of reinforcements arrived.Chants of "Ricky, renuncia! Ricky, renuncia!" turned to "Somos mas y no tenemos miedo!" -- "We are more and we are not afraid!"