San Juan, Puerto Rico (CNN) Demonstrators calling for Puerto Rico Gov. Ricardo Rosselló 's resignation gathered in streets outside the governor's mansion again Saturday afternoon, chanting and banging pots and pans in the latest of several days of protests on the US territory.The protests are sparked in part by last weekend's leaks of offensive private chat messages between the governor and his inner circle. But demonstrators also have railed against alleged government corruption, even as the island battles high poverty rates, crushing debt and a painful recovery from 2017's devastating Hurricane Maria.Saturday, scores of demonstrators stood at least a block from the governor's residence, known as La Fortaleza, facing a line of security officers who kept the crowd from approaching the building any closer.Two kilometers to the east, about a couple dozen people gathered around a covered table set up outside the Capitol building, listening to a protester read the chat messages that served as the boiling point for this week's unrest.One of those gathered there, Carla Claudio, said the chat messages formed "a ridiculous document, but a historic one.""It's important to read this, do it collectively," Claudio, 32, of San Juan, said. "It's been the catalyst for the protest and everything that's happened."Thousands of demonstrators also crowded San Juan's streets Friday , another in a string of protests over the past week that at times have seen police respond by firing tear gasPhotos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters celebrate in Old San Juan, Puerto Rico, after Gov. Ricardo Rosselló announced that he will resign. Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Puerto Ricans wave flags in celebration of Rosselló's resignation. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators react in front of the governor's mansion, known as La Fortaleza. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People in the crowd hold flowers and flags outside the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A demonstrator rejoices after Rosselló announced his resignation. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Jubilant demonstrators are seen in the streets of Old San Juan. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A woman celebrates near La Fortaleza. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A Puerto Rican man cheers after the resignation of Rosselló. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A demonstrator listens to Rosselló's resignation message on a cell phone. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters rally in San Juan on Wednesday, July 24. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators react Tuesday, July 23, upon hearing reports that Rosselló would step down. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police clash with protesters during demonstrations against Rosselló on Monday, July 22. The protests continued into Tuesday morning. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A protester throws a tear gas canister toward police in San Juan. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A protester reacts to tear gas outside the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters run away from tear gas near the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A line of police moves toward demonstrators. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A woman confronts police in riot gear. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters disperse in a cloud of tear gas. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People hold up their phones during the rally outside the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters demonstrate near a police barricade set up along a street leading to the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation This aerial view, taken from a drone, shows protesters on the Expreso Las Americas highway on Monday. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People join the rally against Rosselló on Monday. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A masked man protests in San Juan. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters block the way to Rosselló's residence on Monday. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Puerto Rican pop star Ricky Martin, waving a rainbow flag, joins the protests on Monday. Members of the group chat that Rosselló took part in made vulgar references to the star's sexuality. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Puerto Ricans in San Juan demand Rosselló's resignation on Monday. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters attach a banner to a highway sign. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Singer Daddy Yankee, in the flag shirt, attends the rally on Monday. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A woman is assisted in the streets after demonstrators clashed with police on Wednesday, July 17. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police fire tear gas at demonstrators on July 17. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police officers search the bag of a detained demonstrator on July 17. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Rosselló defended the actions of police and accused protesters of unleashing tear gas and setting fires during demonstrations. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Thousands of demonstrators protest in front of the governor's mansion on July 17. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A protester reacts after being sprayed by tear gas in San Juan. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Rapper Benito Antonio Martinez Ocasio, known by his stage name Bad Bunny, holds a Puerto Rican flag before a march on July 17. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Ricky Martin holds a microphone during the march on July 17. At right is rapper Rene Perez, aka Residente. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People gather to demand Rosselló's resignation on July 17. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police block the street leading to the governor's mansion on Tuesday, July 16. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Rosselló attends a news conference in San Juan on July 16. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters gather near the executive mansion on Monday, July 15. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators cover their mouths with duct tape that says "resignation" in Spanish. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters take to the streets of San Juan on July 15. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A police officer blocks protesters from reaching the governor's residence on Sunday, July 14. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police block the street leading to the governor's mansion on July 14. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators hold signs that say "Corruption is violence" and "Ricky resign" while protesting near the executive mansion on Thursday, July 11. Hide Caption 45 of 45Rosselló's aides have said he does not intend to step down. He has not responded to CNN's interview requests.The chaos in Puerto Rico follows the Center for Investigative Journalism's publication of nearly 900 pages of leaked chats from the governor's private Telegram Messenger group in which he and 11 top aides and Cabinet members exchanged profanity-laced, homophobic and misogynistic messages about fellow politicians, members of the media and celebrities.In one, the former chief financial officer appeared to joke about those who died in Maria.The leak came the same week that two former officials from Rosselló's administration were arrested by the FBI as part of a federal corruption investigation.While Rosselló has refused to step down, two Cabinet members who participated in the chats resigned July 13. And Friday, one of his aides -- press secretary Dennise Peréz -- also stepped down , saying she was upset that a citizen had called her corrupt in front of her son.Protesters demonstrate Friday near a police barricade set up along a street leading to the governor's mansion.Governor denies new accusationSaturday, Rosselló denied an accusation, reported by news outlet NotiCel, that he was paid by the island's legislature for access to his father, a former governor, and kept up to a million dollars in bank accounts.Rosselló said on Twitter that was "totally false.""It is truly lamentable and disappointing that a person which I considered a friend would make such ill-intentioned and false comments. I don't know his intentions and ask myself what is behind such similar falsities," the governor tweeted.The accusation comes from Rosselló's longtime family friend and business partner, Yosem E. Companys. Companys told NotiCel he was discussing a business investment with Rosselló."Ricky told me he had all the money we needed. I asked him if it was family money," Companys told NotiCel."No, I have it," Rosselló reportedly told him. "He told me, 'I have a million in bank accounts.'"To which I asked, 'From where?'"He told me, 'Don't say anything, but basically I get paid around $100,000 to $200,000 as adviser to the legislature and I don't have to do anything. The only thing I have to do is when they want to contact my dad, I give them access," Companys said.Companys asked him whether he thought it was unethical, according to the report, and Rosselló reportedly told him, "I am on their payroll; that's how things function in Puerto Rico."The exchange occurred between 2006 and 2007, Companys said.New committee checks possible impeachable offensesFriday, the president of Puerto Rico's House of Representatives created a special committee to advise him on whether the governor committed impeachable offenses.The impeachment research committee includes three attorneys who will have 10 days to provide a detailed report to Carlos "Johnny" Méndez, according to a news release from the House leader's spokesman, Raúl Colón.The committee will evaluate the content of the leaked messages between Rosselló and Cabinet members and determine whether there's proof Rosselló committed a crime, Méndez said."We are here to order this evaluation, one that will be transparent and responsible," he said. "I thank this group of lawyers for giving a step forward in this historic moment for Puerto Rico. We will thoroughly evaluate the conclusions of this committee so we can proceed."'You left us to die'Thousands of protesters gathered Friday night in the capital, San Juan, calling for Rosselló's resignation.Layzne Alvez told CNN the territory's government had been "left to run wild with our economy, with our money, with all the federal funds the government (is) sending here." She added that Puerto Ricans weren't a violent people so they did not plan to bring Rosselló down by force."We are going to stay here no matter what," Alvez said. "We are going to force our local leaders, representatives, senators, whoever we need to, to get him out. We are going to stay here.""Unfortunately, there is always corruption in the government," said Pamela Calderón, the owner of a small restaurant on Calle San Jose. "But with the publication of the chats, people in Puerto Rico saw how the corruption affected the response to the hurricane. There's a sense of, 'You left us to die.'""There are still people without electricity or a roof," she added. "There is a perception of being abandoned by the government, a lack of planning and the inept way government managed the crisis."The scandal made people snap out of their complacency, a restaurant manager in Old San Juan said."We usually wait for things to take their course," Jose Ramos said. "But this will not get resolved without pressure."The protests have forced some businesses along Calle Fortaleza, which leads to the governor's mansion, to close temporarily or adjust their hours. Some are even boarded up or outfitted with hurricane shutters.Protesters have been joined by some of Puerto Rico's biggest stars, including reggaeton star Bad Bunny, rapper René Pérez Joglar and singer and actor Ricky Martin, one of the targets of leaked homophobic messages. And similar demonstrations have taken place on the US mainland in cities such as Miami and Orlando.Protesters took to the streets of San Juan on Friday night.Governor not considering resigningPuerto Rico's Justice Department has issued summonses for everyone involved in the private chat group. They will be ordered to appear before Justice Department officials to have their phones inspected, department spokeswoman Mariana Cobian said.Through it all, Rosselló has refused to step down, and Friday his official Instagram account shared images of the governor at work , as if it were a typical day for his administration.Rosselló "is not considering resignation," Public Affairs Secretary Anthony Maceira said Friday morning.In a statement posted to Twitter, Rosselló said he would continue to work toward regaining the Puerto Rican people's trust."I recognize the challenge that I have before me because of the recent controversies, but I firmly believe that it is possible to restore confidence and that we will be able, after this painful process, to achieve reconciliation," he said.