If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Let's wish a happy belated birthday to the oldest person in the US. Alelia Murphy turned 114 over the weekend. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Women's World CupThe rest of the soccer world might be hoping that perhaps it's seen the last of Team USA, which won its second consecutive World Cup and fourth overall yesterday in France. They'll probably be disappointed. With its comfortable 2-0 win over the Netherlands, the US Women's National Team showed that it has both the youth and experience to be a force to be reckoned with in many World Cups to come.No one expected the Netherlands to win this match up, but the Dutch actually held on for over an hour, before experience (in the form of Megan Rapinoe ) and youth ( Rose Lavelle ) scored two US goals within eight minutes and put things out of reach. While other football federations will continue to invest heavily to catch up to the Americans, Team USA heads home to face other battles, like securing equal pay for female players.Chants of "equal pay" rained down from the stands at the soccer stadium in Lyon, France, and Rapinoe and others brought up the subject during post-match news conferences. Members of Team USA will soon start mediation with the US Soccer Federation in a lawsuit over pay equity. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, the team will be honored with a ticker tape parade in New York City. No word yet about a possible White House invitationRapinoe: We are a proud, strong and defiant group of womenRapinoe: We are a proud, strong and defiant group of women 00:54Rapinoe: We are a proud, strong and defiant group of women2. IranIran is no longer complying with the nuclear deal it signed with the US and five other countries in 2015. The deal was intended to keep the country from developing a nuclear weapon. Iran announced over the weekend it had started to increase uranium enrichment beyond the purity threshold it agreed to as part of the nuclear deal. Iran had agreed to keep its uranium enrichment threshold below 3.67% (enough to provide power to parts of the country, but not enough to build a nuke) in return for the lifting of economic sanctions. But President Trump pulled the US out of the deal last year and restarted economic sanctions against Iran. After learning of Iran's latest move, the President w arned the country to "be careful ."JUST WATCHED Iran breaches nuclear deal for second time Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iran breaches nuclear deal for second time 02:173. California earthquakesJUST WATCHED 7.1 earthquake strikes Southern California Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 7.1 earthquake strikes Southern California 00:104. Greece electionsThe era of left-wing populism is over in Greece. The center-right New Democracy party won the first national elections there since the country exited a bailout regime a year ago. It's a clear rejection of the austerity policies favored by the ruling, left-leaning Syriza party. New Democracy's Kyriakos Mitsotakis will be Greece's new prime minister. He promises to rebrand the country and change its image as Europe's problem child in the wake of an eight-year economic depression. He wants to reignite the economy by slashing taxes and regulations, while attracting investment. Mitsotakis will be sworn in as prime minister later today.5. Mississippi beachesIt's summer! Time to hit the beaches. But you can't do that right now if you're in Mississippi. All 21 of the state's beaches along the Gulf Coast are closed because of toxic algae. The algae, called a blue-green harmful algal bloom, can cause rashes, stomach cramps, nausea, diarrhea and vomiting, a state agency warned. The blooms occur when colonies of algae grow out of control. This particular situation was partly caused by the opening of a spillway in Louisiana which brought "excessive" freshwater to the coastline, a Mississippi newspaper reported. Algae blooms such as this are happening with increasing frequency due to climate change and increasing nutrient pollution.A runner jogs along Pascagoula Beach in Pascagoula, Mississippi.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.RIP, CameronJUST WATCHED Disney actor from 'Jessie' dies at age 20 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Disney actor from 'Jessie' dies at age 20 00:33Today in facepalmA festival that charged white people more for tickets than people of color? It actually happened in Detroit.The Afrofuture Fest in Detroit faced a backlash after it charged white people $20 for tickets and people of color $10.The Wright stuffWe all knew the designs of Frank Lloyd Wright were extraordinary. Now the UNESCO World Heritage List thinks so, too.Photos: Frank Lloyd Wright works across America Frank Lloyd Wright: The iconic architect died in 1959, but his legacy endures across America. In his lifetime, he designed several houses of worship, including this one, Beth Sholom Synagogue in Elkins Park, Pennsylvania. Click through the gallery for more of his work: Hide Caption 1 of 9 Photos: Frank Lloyd Wright works across America Fallingwater: Possibly Wright's most iconic work, this Pennsylvania house draws visitors from around the world. Hide Caption 2 of 9 Photos: Frank Lloyd Wright works across America Taliesin: Welsh for "shining brow," this was Wright's home base in his native Wisconsin. Hide Caption 3 of 9 Photos: Frank Lloyd Wright works across America Taliesin West: Wright also had a compound in Arizona which was known as Taliesin West. Hide Caption 4 of 9 Photos: Frank Lloyd Wright works across America Guggenheim Museum: One of Wright's most famous commissions was this New York City art museum, originally intended to be a pinky-red color. Hide Caption 5 of 9 Photos: Frank Lloyd Wright works across America Marin County Civic Center: In northern California, many residents see this as a place of business as much as a work of an architectural genius. Hide Caption 6 of 9 Photos: Frank Lloyd Wright works across America Monona Terrace: Planned by Wright but not completed until after his death, Madison, Wisconsin's Monona Terrace is home to everything from staff meetings to high school proms. Hide Caption 7 of 9 Photos: Frank Lloyd Wright works across America SC Johnson: Employees of SC Johnson company in Racine, Wisconsin, still work in an office and sit in chairs designed by Wright. Hide Caption 8 of 9 Photos: Frank Lloyd Wright works across America Wayfarers Chapel: Also known as "The Glass Church," this California church was designed by Lloyd Wright (Frank's son) in the late 1940s and was built between 1949 and 1951. Hide Caption 9 of 9Ghost storiesLet's take a trip to Poggioreale, the Sicilian ghost town that flat out refuses to die.JUST WATCHED Inside the abandoned Italian town where houses can sell for one euro Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Inside the abandoned Italian town where houses can sell for one euro 01:04HAPPENING LATERCourt hearingBillionaire Jeffrey Epstein, who was arrested and indicted on new charges related to alleged sex crimes involving minors, is expected to appear in federal court in New York today.JUST WATCHED Sources: Billionaire accused of sex trafficking minors Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sources: Billionaire accused of sex trafficking minors 02:48NUMBER OF THE DAY$1,200The cost to rent a bunk bed -- yes, just a bunk bed -- in San Francisco or Los Angeles. Privacy is not included.JUST WATCHED This bunk bed in San Francisco rents for $1,200 a month Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This bunk bed in San Francisco rents for $1,200 a month 03:02QUOTE OF THE DAY"I thank you for accepting my humanness."Ariana Grande, Singer in a letter to her fans after social media videos showed her crying onstage at a recent concertAriana GrandeAND FINALLY ...Shock rock