(CNN) Puerto Rico's speaker of the House called for a special legislative session to begin impeachment proceedings for Gov. Ricardo Rosselló on Wednesday, after an expected announcement of his resignation did not materialize."It's after 8 p.m. and the governor has not kept his word," Melendez said.About an hour after the announcement was expected, Public Affairs Secretary Anthony Maceira told reporters outside the governor's official residence that Rosselló was getting ready to make an announcement "directly to the people of Puerto Rico." He has not yet spoken.A team of legal experts was commissioned last week by Speaker of the House Carlos Johnny Méndez to review messages from the governor's group chat and determine whether any crimes were committed.Edgardo Roman Espada, president of the Puerto Rico Bar Association, said the trio of experts believe there's evidence of five possible crimes, including illegal misuse of public office for personal gain, embezzlement, negligence as pertaining to fulfilling the duties of public office and violations of the government ethics law.Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters celebrate in Old San Juan, Puerto Rico, after Gov. Ricardo Rosselló announced that he will resign. Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Puerto Ricans wave flags in celebration of Rosselló's resignation. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators react in front of the governor's mansion, known as La Fortaleza. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People in the crowd hold flowers and flags outside the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A demonstrator rejoices after Rosselló announced his resignation. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Jubilant demonstrators are seen in the streets of Old San Juan. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A woman celebrates near La Fortaleza. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A Puerto Rican man cheers after the resignation of Rosselló. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A demonstrator listens to Rosselló's resignation message on a cell phone. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters rally in San Juan on Wednesday, July 24. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators react Tuesday, July 23, upon hearing reports that Rosselló would step down. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police clash with protesters during demonstrations against Rosselló on Monday, July 22. The protests continued into Tuesday morning. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A protester throws a tear gas canister toward police in San Juan. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A protester reacts to tear gas outside the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters run away from tear gas near the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A line of police moves toward demonstrators. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A woman confronts police in riot gear. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters disperse in a cloud of tear gas. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People hold up their phones during the rally outside the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters demonstrate near a police barricade set up along a street leading to the governor's mansion. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation This aerial view, taken from a drone, shows protesters on the Expreso Las Americas highway on Monday. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People join the rally against Rosselló on Monday. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A masked man protests in San Juan. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters block the way to Rosselló's residence on Monday. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Puerto Rican pop star Ricky Martin, waving a rainbow flag, joins the protests on Monday. Members of the group chat that Rosselló took part in made vulgar references to the star's sexuality. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Puerto Ricans in San Juan demand Rosselló's resignation on Monday. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters attach a banner to a highway sign. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Singer Daddy Yankee, in the flag shirt, attends the rally on Monday. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A woman is assisted in the streets after demonstrators clashed with police on Wednesday, July 17. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police fire tear gas at demonstrators on July 17. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police officers search the bag of a detained demonstrator on July 17. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Rosselló defended the actions of police and accused protesters of unleashing tear gas and setting fires during demonstrations. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Thousands of demonstrators protest in front of the governor's mansion on July 17. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A protester reacts after being sprayed by tear gas in San Juan. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Rapper Benito Antonio Martinez Ocasio, known by his stage name Bad Bunny, holds a Puerto Rican flag before a march on July 17. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Ricky Martin holds a microphone during the march on July 17. At right is rapper Rene Perez, aka Residente. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation People gather to demand Rosselló's resignation on July 17. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police block the street leading to the governor's mansion on Tuesday, July 16. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Rosselló attends a news conference in San Juan on July 16. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters gather near the executive mansion on Monday, July 15. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators cover their mouths with duct tape that says "resignation" in Spanish. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Protesters take to the streets of San Juan on July 15. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation A police officer blocks protesters from reaching the governor's residence on Sunday, July 14. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Police block the street leading to the governor's mansion on July 14. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: In pictures: Puerto Ricans celebrate governor's resignation Demonstrators hold signs that say "Corruption is violence" and "Ricky resign" while protesting near the executive mansion on Thursday, July 11. Hide Caption 45 of 45Enrique Colón, one of the lawyers Mendez appointed to deliver the report, said the legal group's recommendation "effectively" is to proceed with impeachment.Melendez, a member of the governor's New Progressive Party, said earlier on Wednesday that if it's determined there were "illegal acts in the chats" and the governor does not resign, legislators would begin the impeachment process.Thousands have jammed the streets of San Juan calling for the governor's resignation after Puerto Rico's Center for Investigative Journalism published a series of group messages between the governor and his inner circle that included homophobic and misogynistic language and jokes about Hurricane Maria victims.Earlier Wednesday, Maceira declined to confirm the report that the governor was planning to step down and restated Rosselló's Tuesday remarks that "he is in a process of reflection and listening to people.""The governor has not resigned," he said. "Whichever decision he makes will as always be communicated officially. There's a frenzy right now and a lot of incorrect rumors being spread, even by some media outlets."Demonstrators have said they're determined to stay on the streets until Rosselló steps down. They're fed up with years of government corruption, high poverty rates, crushing debt and a painfully slow recovery since the 2017 disaster, they say.Early Wednesday morning, an energetic crowd filled the streets outside the governor's mansion waving flags and banners after news of the governor's anticipated announcement broke.The person expected to take Rosselló's place is Puerto Rico Secretary of Justice Wanda Vazquez.His chief of staff resignedRicardo Llerandi Cruz wrote in his resignation letter: "The last few days have been extremely difficult for everyone. At this historical juncture it is up to me to take the welfare of my family into consideration. The threats we've received can be tolerated as an individual, but I will never allow them to affect my home."Protests on the US territory have been ongoing for more than a week -- and older protesters said Monday's demonstrations were among the largest they've ever seen.Rosselló said Sunday that he would remain in his position, but would not seek reelection in 2020 . He also resigned from his position as president of the new Progressive Party.A federal corruption investigationDemonstrators said the leaked messages were just one of many reasons why Puerto Rico's leadership needs to go."I am fed up with the thieving government," protester Maristella Gross said at Monday night's protest. "I am fed up with corruption. I am fed up with lack of integrity."The leak, published July 13, came the same week the FBI arrested two former officials from Rosselló's administration as part of a federal corruption investigation.Education Secretary Julia Keleher and Angela Avila Marrero, executive director of the island's health insurance administration, had resigned prior to their arrests.Corruption ran deep in the territory years before this administration.Many Puerto Ricans remember the scandal-plagued tenure of the governor's father, Pedro Rosselló, who served as governor in the 1990s."We march for all Puerto Ricans," said Mariana Rivera, 77, as four of her teenage grandchildren pushed her wheelchair under a blistering sun along Las Americas expressway Monday. "What will we leave for our children?"