(CNN) The ferry boat operator that ordered dozens of Hurricane Dorian evacuees from the Bahamas off its boat apologized to passengers Monday but said it made the decision after being told more authorization for their travel was needed.Late Sunday, CNN affiliate WSVN reporter Brian Entin posted video from a Balearia ferry boat in which a person announced over a loudspeaker that anyone traveling to the United States without a visa must disembark. The ferry was set to travel from hurricane-ravaged Freeport, in the Bahamas, to Fort Lauderdale, Florida, when the announcement was made, Entin told CNN.His video shows families with children getting off the vessel.Another announcement just made ordering any Bahamian without a US visa to disembark ferry — not allowed to evacuate. They were told before boarding it was ok with Bahamian passport and clean polce record. Something has now changed. pic.twitter.com/m7CnZxoiMMUS Customs and Border Protection earlier said the operator did not properly coordinate the evacuation ahead of time.Balearia Caribbean said it regretted and apologized for the "hardship and inconvenience" experienced by the 119 passengers from Grand Bahama who were not transported. But it added, "We boarded these passengers with the understanding that they could travel to the United States without visas, only to later having been advised that in order to travel to Ft. Lauderdale they required prior in-person authorization from the immigration authorities in Nassau."US Customs and Border Protection struck a different tone Monday, pinning the blame for the incident on Balearia. CBP spokesman Michael Silva told WSVN that Balearia did not properly coordinate the evacuation efforts with the US Embassy, the Bahamian government and the US Agency for International Development."We're there to facilitate and accommodate that process in an orderly fashion, according to regulation and protocol. However, Balearia did not do that," Silva said. "We asked them to coordinate ahead of time. They did not do that."Over the weekend, nearly 1,500 evacuees arrived in Palm Beach, Florida, on board the Grand Celebration humanitarian cruise ship. All of them were properly documented to enter the country, and that process was coordinated with CBP ahead of time, Silva said.Stephen Silvestri, acting port director for the CBP at Port Everglades, noted that the evacuees were ordered off the boat by the ferry operator and not by any US government entity.If they had remained on the boat and arrived in the United States, "we would have processed them, we would have done vetting and, you know, we would have done everything we needed to do within the US laws and regulations to determine their admissibility and process them accordingly," Silvestri said.Photos: Hurricane Dorian A body is carried out of the Mudd neighborhood in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on Monday, September 9. Hide Caption 1 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Homes are in ruins one week after Dorian hit Marsh Harbour. Hide Caption 2 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A photo album is seen amid the debris in Marsh Harbour on Sunday, September 8. Hide Caption 3 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A damaged home in Hope Town, Bahamas. Hide Caption 4 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A toppled building crane is draped over a new construction project in Halifax, Nova Scotia, on September 9. Hide Caption 5 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Bodies are loaded onto a plane in Marsh Harbour on Saturday, September 7. Hide Caption 6 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This aerial photo, taken on September 7, shows damage at the South Riding Point oil-storage facility in the Bahamas. Hide Caption 7 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boxes of food are loaded onto trucks in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 7. Hide Caption 8 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People reach out for beverages as they await evacuation in Marsh Harbour. Hide Caption 9 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Evacuees from the Bahamas rest on a Royal Caribbean cruise ship after it arrived in Freeport on September 7. The ship delivered thousands of meals and cases of bottled water. Hide Caption 10 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People wait to leave Marsh Harbour on September 7. Hide Caption 11 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Waves crash into boats in Halifax, Nova Scotia, as Hurricane Dorian approached on September 7. Hide Caption 12 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man looks a tree that fell in Moncton, New Brunswick, on September 7. Hide Caption 13 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man surveys damage at the Boardwalk RV Park in Emerald Isle, North Carolina, on Friday, September 6. Hide Caption 14 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Bryan Philips walks with his dog on a flooded road in Salvo, North Carolina, on September 6. Hide Caption 15 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Evacuees wait to leave Marsh Harbour in the Bahamas. Hide Caption 16 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A fallen tree lies on top of a vehicle in Isle of Palms, South Carolina, on September 6. Hide Caption 17 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Schemelda Saintilien walks past debris and damaged houses on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island. Hide Caption 18 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Police Officer Curtis Resor, left, and Sgt. Michael Stephens check a sailboat for occupants in Beaufort, North Carolina, on September 6. Hide Caption 19 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Homes flattened by Hurricane Dorian are seen on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on Thursday, September 5. Hide Caption 20 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Rescue workers recover a body in Marsh Harbour on September 5. Hide Caption 21 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Two men stand amid the destruction in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 5. Hide Caption 22 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A woman from the Bahamas speaks on a cell phone after evacuating on September 5. Hide Caption 23 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A woman battles rain and wind in Charleston, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 24 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Utility crews work on restoring power in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 25 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Rescue workers walk through floodwaters in Little River, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 26 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers try to restore power after a tornado hit Emerald Isle, North Carolina, on September 5. Several tornadoes were reported in the Carolinas. Hide Caption 27 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Emerald Isle employees work to clear a road after a tornado hit. Hide Caption 28 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian An aerial view of Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 5. Hide Caption 29 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian An evacuee rides in a Coast Guard helicopter after being rescued from Treasure Cay, Bahamas, on Wednesday, September 4. Hide Caption 30 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boats are piled up on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on September 4. Hide Caption 31 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Roshane Eyma cries as she is greeted by members of her church on September 4. She had been rescued and flown to Nassau, Bahamas. Hide Caption 32 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Marsh Harbour is seen from above on September 4. Hide Caption 33 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Houses destroyed by Hurricane Dorian are seen on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on September 4. Hide Caption 34 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A resident recovers dishes from his son's home in Pine Bay, Bahamas, on September 4. Hide Caption 35 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian An aerial view of damage on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island. Hide Caption 36 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A child walks past clothes laid out to dry in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 4. Hide Caption 37 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A broken plane rests on the side of a road in Freeport. Hide Caption 38 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Debris litters the Grand Bahama International Airport on September 4. Hide Caption 39 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Volunteers receive relief supplies at the New Providence Community Center in Nassau. Hide Caption 40 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boats, docks and houses are destroyed on the island of Great Abaco. Hide Caption 41 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Braden Vick, right, and Scott Ray run along The Battery in Charleston, South Carolina, on September 4. Hide Caption 42 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Bob Quarles boards up his beach house in Oak Island, North Carolina, on September 4. Hide Caption 43 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A house is surrounded by floodwaters on Grand Bahama island. Hide Caption 44 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Debbie Pagan checks her raised furniture one last time before she and her husband evacuated their home in Tybee Island, Georgia, on September 4. Hide Caption 45 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Mailboxes are taped shut in Charleston on September 4. Hide Caption 46 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This aerial image shows damage on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on Tuesday, September 3. Hide Caption 47 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A family is escorted to a safe zone after being rescued in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 3. Hide Caption 48 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Julia Aylen carries her dog as she wades through waist-deep water near her home in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 49 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Damaged homes are seen in this aerial photograph from the Bahamas on September 3. Hide Caption 50 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Volunteers walk down a flooded road as they work to rescue families near the Casuarina Bridge in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 51 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A car is submerged in Freeport floodwaters on September 3. Hide Caption 52 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Residents wade through a flooded street in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 53 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Eddie Wright and his dog, Vino, wait on a bus to evacuate Brunswick, Georgia. Hide Caption 54 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A house is flooded in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 55 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People gather donations at the Christ Episcopal Church in Miami. Hide Caption 56 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boats are piled up at a Bahamian port on Monday, September 2. Hide Caption 57 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man walks through the rubble left by Hurricane Dorian in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 2. Hide Caption 58 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This September 2 photo provided by NASA shows the eye of Hurricane Dorian as seen from the International Space Station. Hide Caption 59 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Evacuation traffic is seen near South Carolina's coast on September 2. Hide Caption 60 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian US Coast Guard helicopter crews have been helping with search-and-rescue efforts in the Bahamas. Hide Caption 61 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man crosses a street during a downpour in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 62 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This aerial photo shows Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 2. Hide Caption 63 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Agency officials brief Bahamian Prime Minister Hubert Minnis and his cabinet members on September 2. Minnis said many homes, businesses and other buildings have been destroyed or heavily damaged. He called the devastation "unprecedented and extensive." Hide Caption 64 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Businesses are shuttered near Jetty Park in Fort Pierce, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 65 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A boy stands near high surf in Vero Beach, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 66 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This view of the storm was taken from the International Space Station on September 2. Hide Caption 67 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Dorian left heavy damage at this resort in Hope Town, Bahamas. Hide Caption 68 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Waves caused by Dorian crash into a man at the Jupiter Beach Park in Florida on September 2. Hide Caption 69 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Strong winds blow the tops of trees and brush in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 2. Hide Caption 70 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A passenger looks at the flight board at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on September 2. The airport canceled flights and closed because of winds caused by Dorian. Hide Caption 71 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People watch the waves crash onto Vero Beach, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 72 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Clouds loom over a lifeguard tower in Fort Lauderdale on September 2. Hide Caption 73 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Beachgoers watch a man ride a kiteboard in Indialantic, Florida, on Sunday, September 1. Hide Caption 74 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Palm trees blow in strong winds prior to Dorian's landfall in Freeport. Hide Caption 75 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A view outside a car's windshield before Dorian hit Freeport on September 1. Hide Caption 76 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Riverside Mobile Home Park residents Joe Lewis, left, and Rob Chambers work to secure an air conditioner before evacuating the park in Jensen Beach, Florida. Hide Caption 77 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man places a shutter in a window in Lake Worth, Florida. Hide Caption 78 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Passengers arrive at Orlando International Airport on Saturday, August 31. Hide Caption 79 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers install storm shutters in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas. Hide Caption 80 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian NASA employees watch as the Artemis launch tower is rolled back inside a building at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida. Hide Caption 81 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Matt Rohrer loads sandbags in the back of his vehicle in Flagler Beach, Florida, on Friday, August 30. Hide Caption 82 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers at Flamingo Gardens in Davie, Florida, move an Allosaurus statue on August 30. Hide Caption 83 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Shoppers wait in line before sunrise for a Sam's Club store to open in Kissimmee, Florida. Hide Caption 84 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A supervised work crew of female jail prisoners fills sandbags in Titusville, Florida, on Thursday, August 29. Hide Caption 85 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian "Here's a look at #HurricaneDorian from @Space_Station," said astronaut Andrew Morgan, who posted this photo to Twitter. "I caught this shot (August 29) as it traveled across the Caribbean north of Haiti and the Dominican Republic." Hide Caption 86 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Shoppers wait in long lines at a Costco in Davie, Florida, on August 29. Hide Caption 87 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man fills containers with gasoline in Hialeah, Florida, on August 29. Hide Caption 88 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man rides a bike by a Miami Beach building with boarded-up windows on August 29. Hide Caption 89 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Dozens of Orange County residents fill sandbags at Blanchard Park in Orlando on Wednesday, August 28. Hide Caption 90 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Empty shelves at a supermarket in Patillas, Puerto Rico, on August 28. Hide Caption 91 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People stock up with groceries and water in Fort Lauderdale. Hide Caption 92 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Ya Mary Morales and Henry Sustache put plywood over the windows of their home in Yabucoa, Puerto Rico, on August 28. Puerto Rico was ultimately spared the brunt of hurricane-force winds. Hide Caption 93 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers prepare a store's exterior in Humacao, Puerto Rico, on August 28. Hide Caption 94 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Cars line up for fuel at a gas station in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico, on Tuesday, August 27. Hide Caption 95 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Men board up a shop's windows in Boqueron, Puerto Rico, on August 27. Hide Caption 96 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Municipal employees clear debris in Ponce, Puerto Rico, on August 27. Hide Caption 97 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Residents board up a storefront pharmacy in Bridgetown, Barbados, on Monday, August 26. Hide Caption 98 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Residents stand in line at a grocery store in Bridgetown on August 26. Hide Caption 99 of 99Balearia said it is coordinating with CBP to inform "all Bahamian residents of the required travel documentation necessary for travel to Ft. Lauderdale. "The ferry incident was the latest snag in a hellish week for residents of the Bahamas, who are dealing with the grim aftermath of Hurricane Dorian.Less than a week since the Category 5 storm hit, 50 people have been confirmed dead -- and that number is expected to rise drastically, officials say. Hundreds are still missing, nearly 70,000 have been left homeless and hundreds more are desperately looking for a way out.About 4,800 Bahamians have evacuatedBahamians who travel to the United States by ship are required to have a visa, CBP said. However, in humanitarian circumstances, the port director generally waives those requirements.Bahamas' National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) is asking the Ministry of Tourism and Ministry of Foreign Affairs to investigate the ferry incident, NEMA spokesman Carl Smith said Monday."I wish to reiterate there are no new arrangements in place for movement to foreign countries, to the United States and Canada in particular," Smith said.He explained there are no mandatory evacuation orders for those living on Abaco and Grand Bahama, the two hardest-hit islands. Instead, he said, temporary housing will be built there. About 4,800 people have been evacuated from those two islands already, Smith said.CBP head Mark Morgan said at the White House on Monday that the United States is vetting Bahamians attempting to come into the country, which includes screening individuals who lack documentation.Still, President Donald Trump expressed concern over "people going to the Bahamas who weren't supposed to be there" and insisted that everybody needs "totally proper documentation.""I don't want to allow people that weren't supposed to be at the Bahamas to come into the United States, including some very bad people," he said.Bahamas destruction like 'nuclear bombs were dropped,' USAID saysThose who lived through the storm bring with them horrific tales of survival: breaking through rooftops or swimming onto boats to try to ride out the violent waters. Some reported they had family members still missing and others recalled watching friends and neighbors drown in the storm surge."I have no words to say how bad," said Marilyn Laing, a resident of High Rock on Grand Bahama. "Maybe one in 10 houses is standing."By Friday, the Coast Guard had rescued more than 230 people off the islands.USAID Administrator Mark Green told reporters Sunday his agency is leading humanitarian relief efforts of the US government in the Bahamas by providing "lifesaving and life-sustaining assistance: food, water, sanitation, emergency shelter and medical care needed to facilitate the Bahamian government's response."Saturday, USAID announced $1 million in additional humanitarian assistance to help people affected in the Bahamas. That brings the agency's total funding to more than $2.8 million.Green said he toured Abaco and other parts of the Bahamas after the hurricane and said some areas looked "almost as though nuclear bombs were dropped on them."Local authorities have said they believe there are people buried under the rubble, but they have no way of knowing how many or when they will be able to get to them.Search and rescue personnel who arrived with cadaver dogs on the Abaco Islands brought body bags and coolers to store human remains, said Joy Jibrilu, director general of the country's tourism and aviation ministry.Marsh Harbour, the biggest town in the Abacos, suffered some of the worst destruction. A truck delivered at least two bodies to a makeshift mortuary Saturday. The morticians told CNN the difficulty in reaching the dead was slowing their work. Dive teams were needed to recover many submerged bodies, they said.Authorities have said the current death toll may rise as search and rescue operations begin and they start sifting through the wreckage. In the hardest-hit areas of Grand Bahama and the Abaco Islands, entire neighborhoods had been cleared out, trees and utility poles were down and boats were scattered.The public should prepare for "unimaginable information about the death toll and the human suffering," Health Minister Duane Sands told Guardian Radio 96.9 FM.