If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Let's start the week off with something inspirational, like this Georgia police officer who walked in a 5K just a year after he was shot in the head. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Saudi Arabia oil field attackPresident Trump tweeted that the US has "reason to believe we know" who was responsible for the weekend attack on a Saudi Arabian oil field. The President also said the country is " locked and loaded depending on verification" for a possible response. The tweet, which hints at a US military response, raised tensions in the region, which is already on edge after the attack. The coordinated strikes on key Saudi Arabian oil facilities knocked out half of the country's oil capacity, more than 5 million barrels a day. That's about 5% of the world's daily global oil supply, so oil prices shot up . Yemen's Houthi rebels said they're responsible for the attacks, but US officials say the more likely culprit is either Iran or Iraq.2. Brett KavanaughThe battle over Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh reignited over the weekend, after The New York Times published an excerpt from a new book that details sexual misconduct allegations against him . One of the book's allegations was raised during Kavanaugh's contentious confirmation process last year and has previously been denied by him. Another allegation in the book is a new one from a former male classmate which the authors say was corroborated by two sources. Kavanaugh had no comment. Several of the 2020 Democratic presidential candidates said he should be impeached from the Supreme Court. President Trump tweeted that the Justice Department should "rescue" Kavanaugh. CNN's Stephen Collinson said the President and the Democrats are willing to relitigate the Kavanaugh saga because they both want to put the Supreme Court at the center of the 2020 presidential election.3. Purdue PharmaPurdue Pharma, the maker of the painkiller OxyContin, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in New York yesterday. It's all part of the agreement it made to pay billions of dollars to multiple states and governments to settle lawsuits that accuse the pharmaceutical giant of helping to drive the opioid crisis. After the bankruptcy filings are done Purdue Pharma says it will provide more than $10 billion in funding to address the opioid crisis, including settlements with 24 state attorneys general. Purdue Pharma has denied any wrongdoing.JUST WATCHED Purdue Pharma files for bankruptcy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Purdue Pharma files for bankruptcy 00:504. UAW strikeMembers of the United Auto Workers union went on strike against General Motors last night. The union's 46,000 hourly workers walked out at 31 GM factories and 21 other facilities across nine states. It's the first work stoppage in the US auto industry in 12 years. The union said GM was putting profits ahead of the employees who helped save the company after it went through bankruptcy and a federal bailout a decade ago. GM said it's made a substantial offer that includes better pay and profit sharing for union members. Both sides are set to meet later this morning.JUST WATCHED United Auto Workers union goes on strike against GM Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH United Auto Workers union goes on strike against GM 01:285. Hurricane HumbertoHumberto is officially a hurricane , but thankfully it is becoming less of a threat to the US east coast. Humberto's winds ticked up to 75 mph last night, strong enough to be classified as a Category 1 storm. As it has strengthened it's taken an eastward turn away from the US. It will cause high surf and heavy rains throughout the week in Bermuda as it continues to go deeper into the Atlantic. Swells caused by the storm could also create dangerous rip currents from central Florida up to North Carolina. Attention is now being shifted to at least two more tropical disturbances, one in the Gulf of Mexico and the other in the Atlantic off the coast of Venezuela.BREAKFAST BROWSERIP, RicWith a mop of black hair and black sunglasses, Ric Ocasek had the quintessential look for the early days of MTV. Ocasek, lead singer for The Cars , has died at age 75The hive is buzzingBeyonce's "Homecoming" didn't win a Creative Arts Emmy Award this weekend and (surprise) the Beyhive is in an uproar.Bad dreamShe woke up from a dream thinking she had swallowed her engagement ring . Then she realized she really did.JUST WATCHED Woman swallows engagement ring in her sleep Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman swallows engagement ring in her sleep 01:39Play ballWhat's the best way for a 112-year-old White Sox fan to celebrate his birthday? Go to his very first game , of course.TODAY'S NUMBER22The number of people injured in a deck collapse at a condo building in Wildwood, New JerseyTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Humberto strengthens to a hurricane Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Humberto strengthens to a hurricane 01:30AND FINALLYBust a move