If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Hurricane Dorian devastated parts of the Bahamas, leaving people there fighting for survival. Here's how you can help raise money for supplies and aid.And here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Hurricane DorianThe destruction that Hurricane Dorian heaped upon the northern Bahamas is unimaginable. A good portion of Grand Bahama Island (including a major airport) is under water . Parts of the Abaco Islands are decimated. Thousands of homes and businesses have been heavily damaged or destroyed. At least seven people have been killed by Dorian, the strongest storm to ever make landfall in the Bahamas. But the country's Prime Minister said the death toll will rise as rescue teams get out into the hardest-hit areas. Among the dead are an 8-year-old boy who was found by his mother and a woman who drowned in her house while her husband watched helplessly. Click here to get the latest , including how volunteer rescue teams are working to save stranded residents.Meanwhile, Dorian is slowly creeping along the southeast US coast. The Category 2 storm is skirting the coasts of Florida and Georgia, but CNN meteorologist Judson Jones says just a little wobble to the west could mean Dorian makes a landfall in either South or North Carolina. Click here to continue to track the storm , and bookmark CNN's lite site for faster downloading if you're in Dorian's path.2. California boat fireJUST WATCHED Dive boat owner gives insight into deadly CA boat fire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dive boat owner gives insight into deadly CA boat fire 02:083. BrexitNot so fast. That's what a rebel alliance of British lawmakers is telling Prime Minister Boris Johnson about his plans to pull the UK out of the European Union without a deal. The cross-party group of lawmakers won a vote yesterday to seize control of the parliamentary agenda. Today, they will try to force a bill through Parliament that would stop the so called no-deal Brexit from happening on October 31. They fear that leaving the EU without an agreement will devastate the British economy. But Johnson says he'll seek early elections if the lawmakers rule out a no-deal Brexit. Johnson believes the threat of a no-deal Brexit will strengthen his negotiating position with the EU because any financial calamity that results from it wouldn't just hurt the UK, it would hurt Europe, too. Click here to keep up with the latest.JUST WATCHED 'Fight to the death' in Parliament over Brexit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Fight to the death' in Parliament over Brexit 01:544. Walmart and gunsYou can get pretty much anything at Walmart, but it's about to get a lot harder to find guns and ammo there. The mega retailer says it will stop selling handgun ammunition and "short-barrel rifle ammunition" (the kind that can be used in assault-style weapons). Walmart is also asking that customers no longer openly carry guns into its stores ( Kroger did that, too ). Walmart CEO Doug McMillon says these changes were spurred by the El Paso, Texas, mass shooting -- which happened in a Walmart -- as well as recent shootings in Dayton, Ohio and Midland and Odessa, Texas. He also sent a letter to Congress demanding lawmakers "do their part" to stop gun violence. Walmart will, however, continue to sell long barrel deer rifles and shotguns and much of the ammunition for those weapons.JUST WATCHED Walmart will stop selling some guns and ammo in wake of shootings Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Walmart will stop selling some guns and ammo in wake of shootings 00:485. YemenA United Nations panel says the US, UK, France and Iran may be complicit in war crimes in Yemen . The countries perpetuate the conflict by supplying weapons to the various parties involved and thereby prolong the suffering of the Yemeni people, says a member of the UN-commissioned Group of Eminent Experts on Yemen. UN investigators have prepared a "confidential list of possible perpetrators" of rights violations. More than 91,000 people have been killed since 2015 in Yemen's war, which is a battle between a Saudi-led coalition that supports the Yemeni government and Iranian-backed rebels.JUST WATCHED Attack on Yemen prison kills more than 100 people Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Attack on Yemen prison kills more than 100 people 02:58TODAY'S QUOTE"Keep our name out of your mouth."Lori Lightfoot, Chicago Mayor blasting US Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas after he said gun reform legislation doesn't work and pointed to gun violence in Chicago as an example. Lightfoot said most of the illegal guns recovered in Chicago come from states with fewer gun restrictions.BREAKFAST BROWSELiving her best lifeA story in two parts: pic.twitter.com/mmOfgA9wOK — |L I Z Z O| (@lizzo) September 2, 2019Big bangWhat was that loud boom heard over central New York the other night? Oh, nothing. Just a fiery rock from the far-flung reaches of outer space entering the atmosphere.JUST WATCHED What is a fireball? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is a fireball? 00:59Where in the world?Where's the world's most livable city ? Here are a some hints: Think grandiose architecture, huge green spaces and lots of coffee.Standing tallIf you went to Army Ranger School graduation last week, you probably noticed one grad who literally towered over all the others : the ex-NBA player.TODAY'S NUMBER$3.6 billionThe amount in military construction funds that the Pentagon is diverting to be used to build portions of President Trump's long-promised wall on the US border with Mexico.JUST WATCHED WaPo: Trump said he would pardon officials for border wall Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH WaPo: Trump said he would pardon officials for border wall 01:54HAPPENING LATERClimate crisisWant to know what the top 10 Democratic presidential candidates have to say about the climate crisis? Hear them answer questions from a live audience about their climate plans starting at 5 p.m. ET today on CNN.JUST WATCHED I used to be a climate skeptic. This fact changed my mind Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH I used to be a climate skeptic. This fact changed my mind 00:51AND FINALLYGlitter glam