(CNN) Here is a look at the life of Robert Mueller, former special counsel for the Department of Justice and former director of the FBI.Mueller was appointed in May 2017 to investigate Russian interference with the 2016 presidential election , including any links or coordination "between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump."Personal:Birth date: August 7, 1944Birth place: New York, New YorkBirth name: Robert Swan Mueller IIIFather: Robert Swan Mueller Jr., business executiveMother: Alice (Truesdale) MuellerMarriage: Ann (Standish) Mueller (1966-present)Children: Melissa and CynthiaEducation: Princeton University, B.A., 1966; New York University, M.A., 1967; and University of Virginia, J.D., 1973Military service: US Marine Corps and Reserves, 1966-1980, CaptainOther Facts:Mueller is pronounced "MUH-ler."Longest serving FBI Director since J. Edgar Hoover.First FBI Director to be appointed to serve an additional two years after his 10-year term expired.Awarded a Bronze Star, a Purple Heart, the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry and two Navy Commendation Medals for his service in VietnamAfter the 9/11 terrorist attacks, Mueller helped transform the FBI into an agency focused on national security as well as law enforcement, gathering intelligence and countering terrorism globally.Timeline:1973-1976 - Associate attorney at the law firm of Pillsbury, Madison and Sutro.1976-1982 - Joins the US Attorney's office in the Northern District of California.1982-1988 - US Attorney for the District of Massachusetts.1988-1989 - Partner at the law firm of Hill and Barlow.1990-1993 - Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division at the Department of Justice.1993-1995 - Becomes a senior partner in the law firm of Hale and Dorr.1995-1998 - Joins the Homicide Section of the US Attorney's Office in DC. Mueller becomes the section chief in 1997.1998-2001 - US Attorney for the Northern District of California.July 5, 2001 - Nominated to be director of the FBI by Nominated to be director of the FBI by President George W. Bush.July 13, 2001 - The Justice Department announces that Mueller will undergo surgery for the treatment of prostate cancer. Officials state that Mueller was diagnosed in April.September 4, 2001 - Sworn in as the sixth director of the FBI.July 26, 2011 - Congress passes legislation to extend Mueller's term another two years from the usual fixed 10-year term. The extension of his term passes the Senate with a vote of 100-0.September 4, 2013 - Steps down after a 12-year term as the Director of the FBI. Steps down after a 12-year term as the Director of the FBI. James Comey succeeds him as the new agency director.2014-2017 - Partner at WilmerHale law firm.October 27, 2016 - of the firm's security and management processes after a Booz Allen contractor working with the National Security Agency was charged in August with stealing government property and unauthorized removal of classified materials. Booz Allen announces it has hired Mueller to conduct an outside review of the firm's security and management processes after a Booz Allen contractor working with the National Security Agency was charged in August with stealing government property and unauthorized removal of classified materials.April 10, 2018 - The New York Times reports that Trump considered firing Mueller in December 2017, marking the second attempt to do so.April 11, 2018 - A bipartisan group of senators introduces legislation that would make it harder for Mueller to be fired. The Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act protects Mueller by ensuring he can only be fired for "good cause" by a senior Justice Department official.August 21, 2018 - Manafort is convicted on eight out of 18 counts after a trial in Virginia.November 20, 2018 - Trump submits written responses to questions from the special counsel.November 28, 2018 - A Senate vote on a Mueller protection bill is blocked by Republican Senator Mike Lee of Utah.December 7, 2018 - For the first time, prosecutors endorse Cohen's statements that Trump himself directed Cohen to make payments designed to silence women who claimed affairs with Trump. Separately, Manafort is alleged to have lied after agreeing to cooperate with prosecutors, including his "contact with administration officials." Despite the revelations in the filings, Trump tweets after their release, "Totally clears the President. Thank you!" Court filings released by Mueller and federal prosecutors relating to Cohen and Manafort detail the alleged lies both men told both publicly and to the special counsel's investigators. For the first time, prosecutors endorse Cohen's statements that Trump himself directed Cohen to make payments designed to silence women who claimed affairs with Trump. Separately, Manafort is alleged to have lied after agreeing to cooperate with prosecutors, including his "contact with administration officials." Despite the revelations in the filings, Trump tweets after their release, "Totally clears the President. Thank you!"March 13, 2019 - Manafort is sentenced to an additional 43 months in prison related to conspiracy and obstruction charges.March 22, 2019 - Mueller ends his investigation and delivers his report to Attorney General William Barr. A senior Justice Department official tells CNN that there will be no further indictments.March 24, 2019 - the principal conclusions from Mueller's investigation. According to Barr's four-page letter, the evidence was not sufficient to establish that members of Trump's campaign tacitly engaged in a criminal conspiracy with the Russian government to interfere with the election. Barr explains that Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether the president committed a criminal obstruction of justice offense. While Mueller declined to prosecute Trump, the report "does not exonerate" the president, according to Barr. Ultimately, the attorney general and Rosenstein made a determination that the evidence was not sufficient to charge the president with obstruction, Barr writes. Barr releases a letter summarizing the principal conclusions from Mueller's investigation. According to Barr's four-page letter, the evidence was not sufficient to establish that members of Trump's campaign tacitly engaged in a criminal conspiracy with the Russian government to interfere with the election. Barr explains that Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether the president committed a criminal obstruction of justice offense. While Mueller declined to prosecute Trump, the report "does not exonerate" the president, according to Barr. Ultimately, the attorney general and Rosenstein made a determination that the evidence was not sufficient to charge the president with obstruction, Barr writes.March 25, 2019 - in response to the attorney general's summary of the special counsel's report. The letter contains an introduction and executive summaries marked with redactions for public release. Mueller writes a letter to Barr in response to the attorney general's summary of the special counsel's report. The letter contains an introduction and executive summaries marked with redactions for public release.March 27, 2019 - In the note, Mueller asks the attorney general to release the special counsel team's redacted summaries of the report's findings. "The summary letter the Department sent to Congress and released to the public late in the afternoon of March 24 did not fully capture the context, nature, and substance of this Office's work and conclusions," Mueller writes in the letter, which is later released to the public. Mueller writes a second letter to Barr. In the note, Mueller asks the attorney general to release the special counsel team's redacted summaries of the report's findings. "The summary letter the Department sent to Congress and released to the public late in the afternoon of March 24 did not fully capture the context, nature, and substance of this Office's work and conclusions," Mueller writes in the letter, which is later released to the public.March 31, 2019 - Barr sends another letter to Congress, declaring that his March 24 letter was being inaccurately characterized by the media as a "summary" of Mueller's report. "My letter was not, and did not purport to be, an exhaustive recounting of the Special Counsel's investigation or report," Barr writes.April 18, 2019 - A redacted version of Mueller's report is released. The first part of the 448-page document details the evidence gathered by Mueller's team on potential conspiracy crimes and explains their decisions not to charge individuals associated with the campaign. The second part of the report outlines ten episodes involving possible obstruction of justice by the president. According to the report, Mueller's decision not to charge Trump was rooted in Justice Department guidelines prohibiting the indictment of a sitting president. Mueller writes that he would have cleared Trump if the evidence warranted exoneration.May 29, 2019 - declaring that charging the president with a criminal offense was not a Mueller delivers a public statement, declaring that charging the president with a criminal offense was not a constitutional option. He says the special counsel's office is closing and he is returning to private life.July 24, 2019 - . He makes the point to the Judiciary panel that his investigation did not exonerate the President, but says he doesn't agree with Democrats that Trump's actions amounted to obstruction of justice. Mueller testifies before the House Judiciary Committee and the House Intelligence Committee . He makes the point to the Judiciary panel that his investigation did not exonerate the President, but says he doesn't agree with Democrats that Trump's actions amounted to obstruction of justice.