(CNN) Here's a look at the life of attorney Mark Geragos, known for his high profile clients.Personal:Birth date: October 5, 1957Birth place: Los Angeles, CaliforniaBirth name: Mark John GeragosFather: Paul Geragos, attorneyMother: Betty Jane GeragosMarriage: Paulette (Kassabian) GeragosChildren: Jake and TenyEducation: Haverford College, B.A., 1979; Loyola Marymount University, J.D., 1982Other Facts:Partner in the law firm Geragos & Geragos.Timeline:1983 - Is admitted to the State Bar of California and joins his father's law firm, Geragos & Geragos.1997-1998 - One of his first high profile cases is when Geragos represents Susan McDougal in an embezzlement case. McDougal was earlier convicted of fraud in the One of his first high profile cases is when Geragos represents Susan McDougal in an embezzlement case. McDougal was earlier convicted of fraud in the Whitewater case that involved Hillary Clinton and President Bill Clinton. She is acquitted of the embezzlement charges.2001 - Represents Clinton's brother, Roger Clinton, who was arrested on drunken driving charges. Clinton pleads guilty to a misdemeanor charge of reckless driving.2001 - Represents rapper Nate Dogg, who pleads no contest to a misdemeanor charge of carrying an unmarked firearm. A felony charge is dropped in exchange for the plea.2001-2002 - Represents Gary Condit as law enforcement investigate the death of Chandra Levy.2002 - Represents Ryder, who is charged with felony grand theft and vandalism for shoplifting from Saks Fifth Avenue. Ryder is sentenced to three years of probation and counseling.May 2003 - Announces he will represent Scott Peterson, charged with murdering his pregnant wife, Laci. Peterson is found guilty and sentenced to the Announces he will represent Scott Peterson, charged with murdering his pregnant wife, Laci. Peterson is found guilty and sentenced to the death penalty.2003-2004 - Jackson replaces Geragos, saying he wants a lawyer who will devote his full time to the case. Represents Jackson when he is charged with child molestation. Jackson replaces Geragos, saying he wants a lawyer who will devote his full time to the case.2008 - Geragos and partner Pat Harris win a lawsuit against Jeffrey Borer and his charter jet company XtraJet for secretly recording Geragos, Harris and client Jackson on a flight.2009 - when he is charged with assaulting his then girlfriend, Rihanna. Brown is sentenced to five years of probation and ordered to complete a domestic violence program. Represents Brown when he is charged with assaulting his then girlfriend, Rihanna. Brown is sentenced to five years of probation and ordered to complete a domestic violence program.2013 - Geragos' book, written with Pat Harris, "Mistrial: An Inside Look at How the Criminal Justice System Works...and Sometimes Doesn't" is released.February 2019 - Represents actor Jussie Smollett, who is Represents actor Jussie Smollett, who is accused of staging a hate crime against himself in Chicago. Charges against Smollett are later dropped, after he agrees to community services and forfeiture of bond.