If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Want to make a political donation to your preferred presidential candidate? Starting next month, you can just ask Alexa .Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Whistleblower scandalOK, this story is really complicated, so let's just start at the beginning. A whistleblower inside the intelligence community filed a complaint about communications between President Trump and a foreign leader. The whistleblower was alarmed by a "promise" Trump allegedly made to the foreign leader. The Democratically led House Intelligence Committee wants to see the complaint, but Joseph Maguire, the acting Director of National Intelligence, has blocked that. (He's set to testify before the committee next week.) The White House and Justice Department told the Office of the Director of National Intelligence not to share the complaint because they don't believe it's governed by laws covering intelligence whistleblowers, three sources told CNN.Then, yesterday the Washington Post and New York Times reported that the communications at the center of all this involved Ukraine. Trump spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky by phone in July. Some Trump supporters have pushed for the Ukrainian government to open investigations that the President could use to raise suspicions about his political rivals, including Joe Biden. Some observers wonder if there's a connection between the push for an investigation and Trump's call with Zelensky. But there's no public evidence that the whistleblower's complaint pertains to the Trump-Zelensky call. The potential ramifications of this story are starting to become more clear, CNN political analyst Stephen Collinson says, and the risks facing the President, the intelligence community and Democrats in Congress are climbing by the day. Here are 5 key questions about the whistleblower case.2. Justin TrudeauAnother day, another apology from Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. After a third incident emerged of him wearing brownface or blackface , he was forced to meet with reporters for the second day in a row to say he's sorry for wearing racist makeup. He also flat out said he doesn't remember how many times he's worn blackface. Trudeau, known for his uber-progressive views, insists he's still an ally in the fight for social justice. But this scandal and other recent political hiccups could mix to seriously threaten his chances at re-election next month.JUST WATCHED Canada's Trudeau apologizes again after 3rd image surfaces of him wearing blackface/brownface Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Canada's Trudeau apologizes again after 3rd image surfaces of him wearing blackface/brownface 02:563. IsraelIt's been three days since votes were cast in Israel's elections, and we still don't know who will be leading the country . Benny Gantz, leader of the Blue and White party, declared victory because his party is projected to win a few more seats in Israel's legislature than Likud, the political party headed by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. But Gantz won't have enough seats to govern. He'd probably have to form a coalition with Netanyahu to do that, and that's probably not going to happen. So, that brings up another possibility: Israel may have to have a third election to settle the political gridlock.JUST WATCHED Israel's future lies in Netanyahu's hands Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Israel's future lies in Netanyahu's hands 20:354. WeatherThe remnants of Tropical Storm Imelda are pushing into northern Texas, Arkansas and Louisiana today, dumping heavy rain along the way. The storm left quite the mess in southeast Texas, where some areas got more than 30 inches of rain. Flooding was so bad in Houston that hundreds of cars were abandoned after rising water made some roads impassable. Meanwhile, out in the Atlantic, Hurricane Jerry has developed . It's a Category 1 storm right now and is expected to pass just north of the Leeward Islands today before moving north of Puerto Rico and the Bahamas over the weekend.JUST WATCHED Tropical rainfall continues to flood Texas Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tropical rainfall continues to flood Texas 01:395. Climate strikeJUST WATCHED Greta Thunberg to Congress: Listen to the scientists Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Greta Thunberg to Congress: Listen to the scientists 00:51BREAKFAST BROWSETaking the plungeIt was terror on a Delta flight after the plane dropped nearly 30,000 feet in midair within minutes before landing safely in Tampa.Something smells fishyPerhaps it's that this wiggly fish robot is actually an underwater spyJUST WATCHED This robot fish could be used for defensive surveillance Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This robot fish could be used for defensive surveillance 00:41Alexa, add this to my grocery listYes, Impossible Burgers are finally hitting shelves (at Southern California Gelson's Markets, then next month on the East Coast).Feeling blueShe used a numbing agent to dull a toothache. Then, she turned blueHAPPENING LATERShutdown proceduresThe Three Mile Island nuclear power plant officially closes today . The most serious accident at a commercial nuclear power plant in US history occurred there in 1979JUST WATCHED 1979: Three Mile Island nuclear accident Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 1979: Three Mile Island nuclear accident 03:03TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeMembers of the United Auto Workers union went on strike against what company this week, demanding higher hourly wages, lump sum payments and a better profit sharing plan?A. General MotorsB. FordC. ToyotaD. Fiat ChryslerPlay " Total Recall ," CNN's weekly news quiz, to see if your answer is correct.TODAY'S NUMBER2.9 billionThe number of birds that the US and Canadian bird populations have lost since 1970JUST WATCHED Study: Bird populations plummeting in US and Canada Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Study: Bird populations plummeting in US and Canada 02:18AND FINALLYNeed for speed