If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Today is National Voter Registration Day. How much do you know about voting and elections? Take our quiz.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President Trump and UkrainePresident Trump asked his acting chief of staff to put almost $400 million in military aid for Ukraine on hold about a week before his July 25 phone call with Ukraine's President in which he pressed for an investigation of Joe Biden's son, two senior administration officials said. Administration officials were told to tell lawmakers that the delay in military aid was the result of an "interagency process," according to The Washington Post . The revelation of Trump's order to withhold the aid before the phone call has triggered questions about the President's motives. It has also reportedly brought House Democrats near a "tipping point" on possibly impeaching the President.2. Climate crisisSixteen young people, including Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, filed a complaint with the United Nations, accusing Germany, France, Brazil, Argentina and Turkey of violating their human rights by not taking adequate action to stop climate change. The young people, from 12 nations, detailed in their complaint how they believe their human rights have been violated. They don't ask for monetary compensation but demand the countries immediately adjust their climate goals and work with other nations to address the crisis. "If you choose to fail us, I say we will never forgive you," Thunberg said, blasting world leaders during her speech at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York.JUST WATCHED Greta Thunberg: You are failing us. How dare you Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Greta Thunberg: You are failing us. How dare you 01:333. IsraelAfter an election that didn't produce a clear winner, two key Israeli political leaders are trying to carve out a unity government. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former army chief Benny Gantz met last night to talk about it, at the urging of Israeli President Reuven Rivlin. Negotiating teams from Netanyahu's Likud party and Gantz's Blue and White party are expected to meet today. Then, Gantz and Netanyahu will have a follow-up meeting at Rivlin's residence tomorrow, when election results are due to be published and a one-week clock starts ticking for Rivlin to decide whom he will ask to try to form the next government.JUST WATCHED Why Israel is deadlocked a week after election Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Israel is deadlocked a week after election 01:204. WeatherTropical Depression Karen is forecast today to "pass near or over" Puerto Rico (near where aTropical Storm Jerry could come close to Bermuda, and the island later today may see tropical-storm-force winds. On the other side of the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Lorenzo has formed southeast of the Cabo Verde Islands. We'll need to keep an eye on this one. Lorenzo should strengthen into a hurricane by midweek and could become a major hurricane by the weekend. trio of tropical systems is spinning through the Atlantic right now.is forecast today to "pass near or over" Puerto Rico (near where a 6.0-magnitude earthquake hit last night ) and the Virgin Islands. Although Karen weakened from a tropical storm, it's still dangerous and could bring enough rain to cause flash flooding and mudslides. And some forecasts say Karen might strengthen into a tropical storm again before hitting Puerto Rico.could come close to Bermuda, and the island later today may see tropical-storm-force winds. On the other side of the Atlantic,has formed southeast of the Cabo Verde Islands. We'll need to keep an eye on this one. Lorenzo should strengthen into a hurricane by midweek and could become a major hurricane by the weekend.JUST WATCHED Karen poses flood risk for Puerto Rico and US Virgin Islands Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Karen poses flood risk for Puerto Rico and US Virgin Islands 01:385. Florida schoolchildren arrestsWhat's crazier than arresting a 6-year-old? Arresting two 6-year-olds. That's what a school resource officer in Orlando is accused of doing, and that's why the police department fired him . Orlando Police Chief Orlando Rolon said he tried to give the officer "the benefit" of reviewing paperwork and statements but ultimately decided "there was no other remedy" than job termination. Rolon also offered an apology to the children and their families. One of the kids was arrested last week after having a temper tantrum at school. It's not clear when the second child was arrested.JUST WATCHED School officer suspended after arresting 6-year-olds Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH School officer suspended after arresting 6-year-olds 01:23THIS JUST IN ...Back to BrexitThe UK Supreme Court ruled this morning that British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's controversial five-week suspension of Parliament was unlawful . The landmark decision, which essentially holds that Johnson lied to Queen Elizabeth II, throws Brexit into even more chaos. Keep up with the latest here.JUST WATCHED See the Brexit battle raging inside the UK's highest court Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See the Brexit battle raging inside the UK's highest court 02:09BREAKFAST BROWSEBovine beer runThe Spotted Cow brewery in Wisconsin had some special late-night visitors : 16 spotted cows.JUST WATCHED Spotted cows visit home of Spotted Cow beer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Spotted cows visit home of Spotted Cow beer 00:53Not AtlantisScientists say they've discovered a lost continent, but it's not sitting at the bottom of the ocean. It's shoved underneath EuropeExpensive breakYou can take a decadent break with these luxury KitKat bars, but it'll cost you -- about $17 a barJUST WATCHED Here's how KitKats are made Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's how KitKats are made 02:32Back on topWhat's the most successful mobile video game right now? Pokémon Go. Yes, that Pokémon Go . We all thought it ceased being cool about three years ago.Back together againFifty-five years ago, he accidentally sold the first Ford Mustang. He'll be reunited with it this week in Detroit.HAPPENING LATERUN speechPresident Trump gives his big speech to the UN General Assembly later this morning. You can watch it live on all of CNN's platforms.JUST WATCHED Watch UNGA attendees react to Trump's speech Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch UNGA attendees react to Trump's speech 01:32AND FINALLYBaby bubbles