(CNN) Three years ago this week, singer Whitney Houston was found dead In a bathtub at a Los Angeles-area hotel.Now, her only child, Bobbi Kristina Brown, is in a medically induced coma after she was found unresponsive in her suburban Atlanta townhouse -- also in a bathtub.Houston's death was ruled an accidental drowning. But many questions remain about what happened to Brown.The family isn't saying much. Neither are police, though they've said they're treating Brown's case as a criminal investigation.Though little concrete information has surfaced, rampant rumors certainly have. The speculation prompted Brown's family to admonish some media outlets, saying "the desire to be 'first' has clouded the judgment of many reporters."So here is what we know, and don't know, about the case:Brown's conditionWhat we know:She's in a medically induced coma. Early last week, sources close to the family said she opened her eyes briefly and suffered seizures.What we don't know:The extent of her injuries. We also don't know what prompted doctors to induce her coma, or what the reported seizures and eye-opening mean.The boyfriendWhat we know:Nick Gordon was one of the two people who reportedly found Bobbi Kristina Brown unresponsive in the tub. Brown called the 25-year-old her husband, but her father's attorney said the two were never married.JUST WATCHED Who is Nick Gordon? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Nick Gordon? 02:34Gordon was taken in -- but not formally adopted -- by Houston when he was 12 years old.A family friend says he's not welcome in Brown's hospital room.What we don't know:Why Brown called Gordon her husband when she didn't appear to be legally married.In January 2014, she tweeted a picture of wedding rings, along with the words, "#HappilyMarried• SO#Inlove.""GoodAmbreakfast for MYHusband," Brown also tweeted. "Surprise baby! Heh my man is the best :)(: so he deserves the best:) @nickdgordon."GoodAmbreakfast for MYHusband 😊☕️🍩🍳Surprise baby! Heh my man is the best :)(: so he deserves the best:) @nickdgordon pic.twitter.com/yTBOxL60Ol — Bobbi Kristina H.G. (@REALbkBrown) October 6, 2014The couple's friend, Daphne Barak, said she believes Gordon and Brown were very much in love."These two young people -- he was everything for her, she was everything for him," Barak told HLN's Nancy Grace.Gordon on Thursday released a statement through his attorneys, saying his only concern is for Brown's recovery."He remains in constant prayer for his companion and he hopes to be reunited with her soon," the statement read.The injuriesJUST WATCHED Investigators focus on Bobbi Kristina's boyfriend Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Investigators focus on Bobbi Kristina's boyfriend 01:57What we know:Brown was found face down in her bathtub with unexplained injuries to her body, according to a source with knowledge of the investigation.And police have questioned Gordon about bruises on Brown's chest, Barak said."Immediately, from the beginning, they asked him about injuries to the chest," Barak told Grace, adding that Brown is "very tiny."What we don't know:How Brown suffered those bruises. Barak said Gordon told her that the bruising stemmed from Gordon trying to perform CPR on Brown. Gordon couldn't be reached for comment.The investigationWhat we know:Last week, police called the case a medical incident. But Tuesday night, the police chief in Roswell, Georgia, said detectives have launched a criminal investigation."I can confirm that we have a criminal investigation ongoing," Chief Rusty Grant said in an email to CNN.Police then issued a news release Wednesday saying "the incident has always been under criminal investigation and has not been reclassified as a criminal investigation."JUST WATCHED Attorney: We're investigating Bobbi Kristina incident Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Attorney: We're investigating Bobbi Kristina incident 01:41What we don't know:Who may, or may not, have played a role.The investigation is focusing on everyone who was in the house the night before the incident and on people who had contact with Gordon, according to a source with knowledge of it.Gordon was one of two people who found Brown in the bathtub. It's also unclear what he was doing in the moments before.Max Lomas, 24, was the other person there.In response to several media outlets reporting Lomas' lengthy rap sheet, Philip Holloway, an attorney initially representing Lomas, issued a statement saying his client is a cooperative witness and that Lomas' most recent arrest in January on drug- and weapon-related charges has nothing to do with Brown's hospitalization.A different attorney, J.Thom Morgan, was representing Lomas by Wednesday. Morgan told CNN that his client is cooperating with police."We don't believe our client is the subject of a criminal investigation," Morgan told CNN on Wednesday night.So will anyone be held responsible for what happened to Brown? Police aren't saying much beyond that "criminal investigations may or may not result in criminal charges being brought against individuals."The inheritanceWhat we know:Houston, 48, had an estate worth an estimated $12 million to $20 million. According to her will, her daughter was the sole heir to it.It was widely reported that when Brown turned 21 in March 2014, she received the first installment from her trust -- one-tenth of her mother's estate.Brown is scheduled to receive one-sixth of the estate in 2018 and the remaining balance in 2023.What we don't know:Who would be the beneficiary if Brown passes away.