It's Monday, and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayWINTER WEATHERAs the Midwest remains buried in snow, millions will wake up Monday to sleet and blizzard conditions in the East Coast -- the second round of winter weather pounding in a week. The storm put more than 9 million people in the Chicago area under a blizzard warning Sunday. And as it moves east, metropolitan areas such as New York City and Boston will be coated in ice.BOBBI KRISTINAWhitney Houston's daughter in intensive care: Bobbi Kristina Brown is Bobbi Kristina Brown is on a ventilator and in intensive care after she was found facedown and unresponsive in a bathtub full of water, a source close to the family said. Brown, 21, was placed in a medically induced coma and the status of her brain function won't be known until the sedatives are reduced, the source told CNN.JUST WATCHED Bobby Brown speaks about daughter in hospital Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bobby Brown speaks about daughter in hospital 01:23SUPER BOWLWinners and losers: Unless you Unless you were buried under a rock last night , you know the New England Patriots rallied to give coach Bill Belichick a fourth Super Bowl victory. And Katy Perry danced with sharks and a beach ball. And let's not forget Missy Elliott, who stole the show with a surprise appearance. But what were some of the most memorable moments? And who were the real MVPs? We got you covered.JUST WATCHED Patriots rally past Seahawks in Super Bowl Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Patriots rally past Seahawks in Super Bowl 00:10EGYPT JOURNALISTSOne's free at last: The Australian The Australian relatives of Al Jazeera journalist Peter Greste are "ecstatic" following his release from an Egyptian jail after more than a year. But two of his colleagues, Mohamed Fadel Fahmy and Baher Mohamed, remain behind bars.JUST WATCHED Al Jazeera journalist released from Egyptian prison Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Al Jazeera journalist released from Egyptian prison 10:08KENJI GOTOJournalist apparently beheaded: Kenji Goto v Kenji Goto v entured to Syria to tell the stories of lives torn apart by war. But in doing so, the Japanese journalist suffered his own gruesome fate -- apparently becoming the latest foreigner to be decapitated by ISIS. "To the terrorists, we will never, never forgive them for this act," Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said yesterday.