(CNN) Three accused ISIS sympathizers are arrested. CDC investigates a deadly bacteria's link to doctors' offices. And winter does a number on the South.It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day.TERRORISM ARRESTSThe three men arrested yesterday, accused of wanting to join ISIS in Syria, apparently had big plans. The New York men wanted to hijack a plane (and give it to ISIS) and join the U.S. military to kill soldiers, the FBI said. The men also allegedly talked of assassinating President Obama. One of the men was arrested trying to catch a flight to Turkey. His lawyer accused the government of resorting to "ham-fisted tactics."DEADLY BACTERIACDC investigates: Is your doctor's office making you sick? That's what the CDC wants to know after a substantial number of people contracted a Is your doctor's office making you sick? That's what the CDC wants to know after a substantial number of people contracted a potentially deadly bacteria after visiting doctor's offices. The bacteria, C. difficile, is usually found in hospitals, but a recent report found the bacteria on surfaces in six of seven outpatient clinics in Ohio. The CDC wants to see if this is becoming a nationwide problem.JUST WATCHED CDC: Deadly infections contracted in doctors' offices Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CDC: Deadly infections contracted in doctors' offices 01:19ISISMass kidnapping: ISIS' recent kidnapping of Christian villagers in northern Syria is worse than first thought. A human rights activist told CNN it is now believed the ISIS' recent kidnapping of Christian villagers in northern Syria is worse than first thought. A human rights activist told CNN it is now believed the terrorist group has about 150 people -- mostly women, children and the elderly -- in its clutches. ISIS is reportedly expected to release a video, directed at President Obama and others, threatening to kill the hostages.JUST WATCHED Death, slavery feared for Christians held by ISIS Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Death, slavery feared for Christians held by ISIS 01:31WINTER WEATHERSouth slammed: After being heavily criticized last year for their less-than optimal response to winter storms, Georgia and North Carolina were aggressive in combating ice and snow this year. States of emergency were declared well in advance, decisions on canceling school and work were made early and roads were pretreated. The storm -- After being heavily criticized last year for their less-than optimal response to winter storms, Georgia and North Carolina were aggressive in combating ice and snow this year. States of emergency were declared well in advance, decisions on canceling school and work were made early and roads were pretreated. The storm -- a fast-moving one, thankfully -- stretches from Texas to the Carolinas.JUST WATCHED South slammed by brutal winter weather Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH South slammed by brutal winter weather 01:56BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING TRIALJury pool: Now that a jury pool has been picked, Now that a jury pool has been picked, the trial of accused Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev could start next week. The jury pool of 70 was culled from 256 people, who were questioned for 21 days. A final jury could be in place by the middle of next week if all goes well. The jury will decide if Tsarnaev is guilty of the April 15, 2013, bombings, which killed three people near the finish line of the marathon.