Story highlights 10 deaths in Tennessee have been tied to the harsh winter weatherTens of millions of people in the eastern United States are experiencing a deep freezeTemperatures are 25 to 45 degrees below normal in some locations(CNN) The cold gripping much of the eastern United States is bitter, it's sprawling, and it's deadly.And it's apparently not going away -- at least for any length of time -- anytime soon.Photos: It's so cold, Niagara Falls froze Photos: It's so cold, Niagara Falls froze An unprecedented cold front has frozen parts of Niagara Falls, drawing tourists to document the rare event. The minus 22-degree weather didn't stop iReporter Spencer Wyllie from capturing the beauty of the falls on Thursday. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: It's so cold, Niagara Falls froze "Most of the buildup is on the American and Bridal Veil Falls," said Wyllie. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: It's so cold, Niagara Falls froze Professional photographer and iReporter Dave Perry went to see the frozen wonderland on Thursday. He said it was "so cold I wondered why I was taking photos here but the scene makes it worth the trek." Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: It's so cold, Niagara Falls froze Perry also trekked to the falls Monday, when he spotted some unusual frozen formations. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: It's so cold, Niagara Falls froze The Burlington, Ontario, resident walked along the edge of the falls, where he saw the American side glistening with ice. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: It's so cold, Niagara Falls froze Only after taking a series of photographs did he realize the falls were frozen. "It didn't strike me at first when I took this shot," Perry said. "I thought it looked like teeth, like a monster's smile." Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: It's so cold, Niagara Falls froze Perry and dozens of tourists from America and Canada are making their way to see the frozen scene. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: It's so cold, Niagara Falls froze The National Weather Service said extremely cold Arctic air may allow for expansion of the ice across the falls. Hide Caption 8 of 8From a frozen Niagara Falls to endangered Florida oranges, there's no shortage of evidence about how cold it has been over the past few days.But the worst such examples come in places like Tennessee, where 10 deaths have been blamed on the harsh winter weather, according to that state's emergency management agency.Four of the deaths stemmed from car accidents, and five were tied to hypothermia , which is abnormally low body temperatures that can cause confusion, sleepiness, slowed speech or reactions, and can be fatal if not treated quickly. The 10th death was a dialysis patient who was unable to get to treatment.Read More