Story highlights Company: "We believe the lawsuit is baseless, and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves"Lawsuit says Beneful dog food produced by Purina Nestle PetCare can sicken and kill dogs(CNN) Beneful dry dog food produced by Nestle Purina PetCare has "resulted in serious illness and death of thousands of dogs," a lawsuit says.Photos: Investment opportunities through your furry friends Photos: Investment opportunities through your furry friends Listen to me – Fitbark is among the "quantified self" trackers for pets that offer insights into their behavior, health and lifestyle. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Investment opportunities through your furry friends Conference call – Petchatz enables video calls from anxious owners. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Investment opportunities through your furry friends Lap of luxury – D Pet Hotel in Hollywood offers lavish suites to four-legged visitors... Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Investment opportunities through your furry friends Sports center – ...as well as extensive play and exercise facilities. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Investment opportunities through your furry friends Reception with a scowl – The Ings Luxury Cat Hotel in Yorkshire, UK, offers a similar level of pampering. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Investment opportunities through your furry friends Smart dieting – The bistro feeder gives cats nutrition according to their precise needs. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Investment opportunities through your furry friends Why the chicken crossed the road – Luminous jackets from UK form Omlet have made roaming the countryside much safer for hens. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Investment opportunities through your furry friends Simply fabulous – Ralph Lauren winter jackets for the demanding pooch. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Investment opportunities through your furry friends Look into my eyes – Nexvet are among the companies revolutionizing specialist medicine for pets. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Investment opportunities through your furry friends Never get lost again – GPS trackers - such as this model from Whistle - should ensure greater security for pets and peace of mind for their owners. Hide Caption 10 of 10The named plaintiff in the suit describes how one of his dogs died after eating Beneful and two of his dogs got sick. In the past four years, consumers have made more than 3,000 online complaints about dogs becoming ill or dying after eating Beneful, the lawsuit says.Bill Salzman, director of corporate communications for Nestle Purina PetCare, issued a statement denying the allegations in the lawsuit."We believe the lawsuit is baseless, and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves and our brand. Beneful had two previous class action suits filed in recent years with similar baseless allegations, and both were dismissed by the courts.Read More