Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) It's a good Tuesday morning, especially if you live in Cleveland. Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Pakistan attackMilitants attacked a police training academy in Quetta, killing at least 60 cadets and injuring 118. The attackers are believed to members of Lashkar-e-jhangvi, an al Qaeda-affiliated group that targets Shiites in Sunni-majority Pakistan. In 2013, it carried out a series of bombings that killed more than 160.2. Military bonusesAt the height of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, the California National Guard enticed soldiers to re-enlist with bonuses as big as $15,000. Now those vets have been told to pay the money back , after investigators uncovered rampant fraud by the Guard to meet enlistment targets. Yes, vets are literally paying the price for this massive screw-up.3. Theme park accident4. ObamacareIf you're on Obamacare next year, get ready to open your wallet a little wider . Premiums will jump an average of 22%. And that's not all. Some insurers are fleeing Obamacare exchanges after racking up big losses dealing with a pool of patients who've been sicker than anticipated.5. World SeriesYeah the Chicago Cubs are going to get the lion's share of attention during this series, but today's the very best day to live in Cleveland . Not only is the city hosting Game 1 at Progressive Field, but right next door at Quicken Loans Arena, NBA champs the Cavaliers will get their championship rings.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Straight outta courtroomThought the rap wars of the 90s were over? Nope, they've just moved to the courts. Suge Knight's suing Dr. Dre, claiming Dre hired a hitman to kill him.It's what's for breakfastGirl Scout cookie cereal is coming, and that makes sense because we always dunk our Thin Mints in milk anyway. What, you don't?Beauty battleMiss Iceland was told to lose weight by the owner of a beauty pageant. She said, 'Take this pageant and shove it.' Sound familiar?Mean tweetsTongue twisterA teen soccer player woke up from a coma with a big mystery: Why is he suddenly speaking fluent SpanishAND FINALLY ...Give a flip