Are you affected by Hurricane Matthew? If it is safe for you to do so, WhatsApp us on *+44 7435 939 154* to share your photos, experiences and video. Please tag #CNNiReport in your message.(CNN) As Hurricane Matthew sets its sights on the US, more than 2 million people have already been urged to flee their homes, with more evacuations likely as the deadly storm makes its way past the Bahamas.State officials in Florida, South Carolina and Georgia cautioned residents not to hunker down at home if they live in the hurricane's potential path.Early Thursday the hurricane, which already has killed at least 15 people in several Caribbean countries, was about 125 miles (205 kilometers) south of Nassau, Bahamas, and 325 miles (525 kilometers) from West Palm Beach, Florida.A worker nails a board to a storefront window in Kingston on Saturday, October 1.A worker nails a board to a storefront window in Kingston on Saturday, October 1.Residents of Cuba's Holguin Province line up to buy gas on October 2.Residents of Cuba's Holguin Province line up to buy gas on October 2.Motorists drive through heavy rains in Kingston, Jamaica, on October 2.Motorists drive through heavy rains in Kingston, Jamaica, on October 2.People stock up on food at a supermarket in Port-au-Prince on Sunday, October 2.People stock up on food at a supermarket in Port-au-Prince on Sunday, October 2.Nice Simon, the mayor of Tabarre, Haiti, holds a baby as she helps evacuate the area along a river.Nice Simon, the mayor of Tabarre, Haiti, holds a baby as she helps evacuate the area along a river.A backhoe removes garbage to clear a canal in Port-au-Prince on October 3.A backhoe removes garbage to clear a canal in Port-au-Prince on October 3.People near Kingston, Jamaica, take a photo in front of the rough surf produced by Hurricane Matthew on October 3.People near Kingston, Jamaica, take a photo in front of the rough surf produced by Hurricane Matthew on October 3.Families seek shelter from Hurricane Matthew at a university facility in Guantanamo, Cuba.Families seek shelter from Hurricane Matthew at a university facility in Guantanamo, Cuba.Clouds loom over the hills of the Petionville suburb of Port-au-Prince on October 3.Clouds loom over the hills of the Petionville suburb of Port-au-Prince on October 3.Officials urge residents to evacuate their homes in the Grise River area of Tabarre on October 3.Officials urge residents to evacuate their homes in the Grise River area of Tabarre on October 3.Haitian civil protection workers arrive to evacuate the Tabarre region of Haiti on October 3.Haitian civil protection workers arrive to evacuate the Tabarre region of Haiti on October 3.A food vendor lays out goods for sale during a light rain in Port-au-Prince on October 4.A food vendor lays out goods for sale during a light rain in Port-au-Prince on October 4.A truck used as public transportation drives through flooded streets in Port-au-Prince on October 4.A truck used as public transportation drives through flooded streets in Port-au-Prince on October 4.Children swim in a flooded neighborhood of Santo Domingo on October 4.Children swim in a flooded neighborhood of Santo Domingo on October 4.People observe the flooding of a river near Port-au-Prince on October 4.People observe the flooding of a river near Port-au-Prince on October 4.People wade through the flooded streets of Cite Soleil in the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince on October 4. Hurricane Matthew is the strongest storm to hit Haiti since 1964 and the first hurricane to make landfall in the country since the devastating earthquake in 2010.People wade through the flooded streets of Cite Soleil in the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince on October 4. Hurricane Matthew is the strongest storm to hit Haiti since 1964 and the first hurricane to make landfall in the country since the devastating earthquake in 2010.Anita Baranyi feeds her baby while keeping an eye on the generator she intends to purchase from a home-improvement store in Oakland Park, Florida, on October 4.Anita Baranyi feeds her baby while keeping an eye on the generator she intends to purchase from a home-improvement store in Oakland Park, Florida, on October 4.The mother of two girls who died in the storm is comforted near her home in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, on October 4. The girls were killed when a landslide caused by flooding breached the walls of their house.The mother of two girls who died in the storm is comforted near her home in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, on October 4. The girls were killed when a landslide caused by flooding breached the walls of their house.Beth Johnson fills up her car at a gas station in Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina, on October 4.Beth Johnson fills up her car at a gas station in Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina, on October 4.The high winds of Hurricane Matthew roar over Baracoa on Tuesday, October 4.The high winds of Hurricane Matthew roar over Baracoa on Tuesday, October 4.Bus drivers in North Charleston, South Carolina, wait for word to start evacuations.Bus drivers in North Charleston, South Carolina, wait for word to start evacuations.A woman cries amid the rubble of her home in Baracoa.A woman cries amid the rubble of her home in Baracoa.People embrace at their damaged home in Baracoa, Cuba. The hurricane rolled across the sparsely populated tip of Cuba, destroying dozens of homes in the country's easternmost city and leaving hundreds of others damaged.People embrace at their damaged home in Baracoa, Cuba. The hurricane rolled across the sparsely populated tip of Cuba, destroying dozens of homes in the country's easternmost city and leaving hundreds of others damaged.Evacuees return to their homes in the Carbonera community of Guantanamo, Cuba, on October 5.Evacuees return to their homes in the Carbonera community of Guantanamo, Cuba, on October 5.People carry a coffin and try to cross the La Digue river on October 5 after a bridge collapsed in Petit-Goave, Haiti.People carry a coffin and try to cross the La Digue river on October 5 after a bridge collapsed in Petit-Goave, Haiti.Workers start removing umbrellas and the colorful rocking chairs that line the Cocoa Beach Pier in Cocoa Beach, Florida, on October 5.Workers start removing umbrellas and the colorful rocking chairs that line the Cocoa Beach Pier in Cocoa Beach, Florida, on October 5.Bumper-to-bumper traffic lines Interstate 26 in Columbia, South Carolina, as people drive west on October 5.Bumper-to-bumper traffic lines Interstate 26 in Columbia, South Carolina, as people drive west on October 5.A supermarket shelf is nearly cleared out in Titusville, Florida, on Wednesday, October 5.A supermarket shelf is nearly cleared out in Titusville, Florida, on Wednesday, October 5.Two days after the storm, authorities and aid workers in Haiti still lacked a clear picture of what they fear is the country's biggest disaster in years.Two days after the storm, authorities and aid workers in Haiti still lacked a clear picture of what they fear is the country's biggest disaster in years.Girls hold hands as they help each other wade through a flooded street in Les Cayes on October 6.Girls hold hands as they help each other wade through a flooded street in Les Cayes on October 6.Residents repair their homes in Les Cayes, Haiti, on October 6. The damage from Hurricane Matthew was especially brutal in southern Haiti, where sustained winds of 130 mph punished the country.A man rakes up debris from a storm drain as he begins cleanup near a damaged gas station in Nassau on October 6.A man rakes up debris from a storm drain as he begins cleanup near a damaged gas station in Nassau on October 6.People leave Disney's Magic Kingdom theme park, in heavy rain, after it closed in Orlando, Florida in preparation for the landfall of Hurricane Matthew, on October 6.People leave Disney's Magic Kingdom theme park, in heavy rain, after it closed in Orlando, Florida in preparation for the landfall of Hurricane Matthew, on October 6.Hurricane Matthew moves through Paradise Island in Nassau, Bahamas, on October 6. Capt. Stephen Russell, the head of the Bahamas National Emergency Management Authority, said there were many downed trees and power lines but no reports of casualties.Hurricane Matthew moves through Paradise Island in Nassau, Bahamas, on October 6. Capt. Stephen Russell, the head of the Bahamas National Emergency Management Authority, said there were many downed trees and power lines but no reports of casualties.Kevin Forde and John Haughey put plywood on a Miami Beach window on October 6.Kevin Forde and John Haughey put plywood on a Miami Beach window on October 6.A police officer walks along the beach in Singer Island, Florida, on October 6.A police officer walks along the beach in Singer Island, Florida, on October 6.People stand on a beach in Broward County, Florida, as the storm approached the coast on Thursday, October 6.People stand on a beach in Broward County, Florida, as the storm approached the coast on Thursday, October 6.Heavy rain billows in front of Exploration Tower in Cape Canaveral, Florida, on October 7.Heavy rain billows in front of Exploration Tower in Cape Canaveral, Florida, on October 7.Firefighters respond to a pre-dawn house fire in Satellite Beach, Florida, that was possibly caused by a downed power line on October 7.Firefighters respond to a pre-dawn house fire in Satellite Beach, Florida, that was possibly caused by a downed power line on October 7.Palm trees on Cocoa Beach sway in the wind on October 7.Palm trees on Cocoa Beach sway in the wind on October 7.A woman uses her phone under a battery-operated lantern at a hotel in Titusville, Florida, on October 7.A woman uses her phone under a battery-operated lantern at a hotel in Titusville, Florida, on October 7.A space shuttle model stands near some downed trees after Hurricane Matthew passed by Cocoa Beach.A space shuttle model stands near some downed trees after Hurricane Matthew passed by Cocoa Beach.A woman inspects her damaged car under a tree in Fort Pierce, Florida, on October 7.A woman inspects her damaged car under a tree in Fort Pierce, Florida, on October 7.A billboard canvas flaps in the wind after Hurricane Matthew passed North Palm Beach, Florida, on October 7.A billboard canvas flaps in the wind after Hurricane Matthew passed North Palm Beach, Florida, on October 7.A car drives past a downed tree as the hurricane moves through Daytona Beach, Florida, on October 7.A car drives past a downed tree as the hurricane moves through Daytona Beach, Florida, on October 7.A women helps a dog walk through floodwaters in Port Orange, Florida, on October 7.A women helps a dog walk through floodwaters in Port Orange, Florida, on October 7.Preston Payne tries to hold his umbrella on Georgia's Tybee Island on October 7.Preston Payne tries to hold his umbrella on Georgia's Tybee Island on October 7.A police officer helps persuade a woman to board a bus and evacuate Savannah, Georgia, on October 7.A police officer helps persuade a woman to board a bus and evacuate Savannah, Georgia, on October 7.A damaged boat sits partially submerged on the intercoastal waterway in Melbourne, Florida, on October 7.A damaged boat sits partially submerged on the intercoastal waterway in Melbourne, Florida, on October 7.Adam and Alec Selent watch waves crash over a retainer wall at the Ocean Club condominiums in Isle of Palms, South Carolina, on October 7.Adam and Alec Selent watch waves crash over a retainer wall at the Ocean Club condominiums in Isle of Palms, South Carolina, on October 7.Barbara Hearst tapes her storm shutters as Hurricane Matthew nears Charleston, South Carolina, on October 7.Barbara Hearst tapes her storm shutters as Hurricane Matthew nears Charleston, South Carolina, on October 7.Water flows over a seawall and fills the streets of St. Augustine, Florida, on October 7.Water flows over a seawall and fills the streets of St. Augustine, Florida, on October 7.Parts of Highway A1A in Flagler Beach, Florida, were washed away by Hurricane Matthew on Friday, October 7.Parts of Highway A1A in Flagler Beach, Florida, were washed away by Hurricane Matthew on Friday, October 7.A woman fights the wind in Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina, on October 8.A woman fights the wind in Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina, on October 8.A downed tree and power lines block a road on Georgia's St. Simons Island on October 8.A downed tree and power lines block a road on Georgia's St. Simons Island on October 8.A police officer steps through the remnants of a home leveled by Hurricane Matthew in the tiny beach community of Edisto Beach, South Carolina, on October 8.A police officer steps through the remnants of a home leveled by Hurricane Matthew in the tiny beach community of Edisto Beach, South Carolina, on October 8.Volunteers clear debris from from a pool at a condominium complex in Jacksonville Beach, Florida, on October 8.Volunteers clear debris from from a pool at a condominium complex in Jacksonville Beach, Florida, on October 8.A woman who gave her name only as Valerie walks along flooded President Street after leaving her homeless camp in Savannah, Georgia, on October 8.A woman who gave her name only as Valerie walks along flooded President Street after leaving her homeless camp in Savannah, Georgia, on October 8.John Tweedy wades into the swift-moving floodwaters surrounding his business in McClellanville, South Carolina, on Saturday, October 8.John Tweedy wades into the swift-moving floodwaters surrounding his business in McClellanville, South Carolina, on Saturday, October 8.A section of Wayne Memorial Drive was washed out in Goldsboro, North Carolina.A section of Wayne Memorial Drive was washed out in Goldsboro, North Carolina.Rescue workers help several dogs that were trapped in homes in Pinetops, North Carolina, on October 9.Rescue workers help several dogs that were trapped in homes in Pinetops, North Carolina, on October 9.Boats are pushed up among twisted docks in Hilton Head on October 9.Boats are pushed up among twisted docks in Hilton Head on October 9.People stop and take pictures of Highway 58, which was flooded in Nashville, North Carolina, on October 9.People stop and take pictures of Highway 58, which was flooded in Nashville, North Carolina, on October 9.A man clings to a road sign after trying to swim out to help a stranded truck driver in Hope Mills, North Carolina, on October 9. Both were rescued.A man clings to a road sign after trying to swim out to help a stranded truck driver in Hope Mills, North Carolina, on October 9. Both were rescued.Anthony Writebol, left, and his cousin Melissa Hill paddle past a stranded tractor-trailer in Lumberton on October 9.Anthony Writebol, left, and his cousin Melissa Hill paddle past a stranded tractor-trailer in Lumberton on October 9.Without power in the hurricane's aftermath, Missy Zinc shines a light so her husband, Shawn, can prepare steaks to grill in Hilton Head, South Carolina, on Sunday, October 9.Without power in the hurricane's aftermath, Missy Zinc shines a light so her husband, Shawn, can prepare steaks to grill in Hilton Head, South Carolina, on Sunday, October 9.Rescue teams maneuver through floodwaters in Lumberton, North Carolina, on October 10. President Barack Obama has declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered federal aid to supplement state, tribal and local recovery efforts.Rescue teams maneuver through floodwaters in Lumberton, North Carolina, on October 10. President Barack Obama has declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered federal aid to supplement state, tribal and local recovery efforts.People wade through floodwaters with a boat in Nichols, South Carolina, on Monday, October 10. Hurricane Matthew caused flooding and damage in the Southeast -- from Florida to North Carolina -- after slamming Haiti and other countries in the Caribbean.People wade through floodwaters with a boat in Nichols, South Carolina, on Monday, October 10. Hurricane Matthew caused flooding and damage in the Southeast -- from Florida to North Carolina -- after slamming Haiti and other countries in the Caribbean.The National Hurricane Center isn't saying that Matthew will make landfall in Florida, just that the center of the storm will get "very near" the Atlantic Coast, possibly as a Category 4 hurricane.Matthew was packing 115 mph (185 kph) winds as the eye neared the Central Bahamas, the National Hurricane Center said.President Barack Obama warned Americans in the storm's path to pay attention and take any evacuation orders seriously. He said if the core of the storm strikes Florida, it could have a "devastating effect."Florida braces for 'direct hit'Florida Gov. Rick Scott warned 1.5 million residents they had 24 hours to get ready, or better yet, get going.JUST WATCHED How to prepare for a hurricane Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How to prepare for a hurricane 00:57The voluntary and mandatory evacuations included the Miami area and extended all the way north past the city of St. Augustine.Scott has also activated 1,500 National Guard members. He has repeatedly warned that a direct hit by Matthew could lead to "massive destruction" on a level unseen since Hurricane Andrew devastated the Miami area in 1992.Texroy Spence, of Deerfield Beach, Florida, loads plywood onto his car at the Home Depot on Tuesday.Many residents found long gas lines Wednesday. However, Scott said the state is not experiencing any gas supply or distribution shortages."We have heard of some individual stations (being) short, but in no area of the state are we short of fuel," the governor said, adding that the state has placed fuel in some areas and sends it to stations that need more.Airline passengers were urged to call before leaving for the airport. Fort Lauderdale's airport is to close Thursday at 10:30 a.m. and FlightAware.com says almost 250 flights are canceled at Miami International.State offices will be closed Thursday and Friday in 26 counties, Scott said.Palm Beach residents cleared many grocery store shelves ahead of the storm.I wasn't the first to think about getting ice from publix #HurricaneMatthew pic.twitter.com/69Ydi7fnu3 — Daniel Scroggins (@palmbeachd) October 5, 2016In Jupiter, resident Randy Jordan told CNN affiliate WPEC people were pushing and shoving their way through the local Home Depot to buy supplies ranging from batteries to flashlights.Residents still had a sense of humor. Olivia A. Cole posted a photo on Twitter of an empty grocery shelf, save for eight cans of a soup typically enjoyed in another part of the country. "South Florida wants to survive #HurricaneMatthew. But we'd rather die than eat clam chowder," Cole joked.South Florida wants to survive #HurricaneMatthew. But we'd rather die than eat clam chowder. pic.twitter.com/WtNp6Xa6pZ — Olivia A. Cole (@RantingOwl) October 5, 2016Mandatory evacuations in South CarolinaSouth Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley gave evacuation orders for the coastal counties of Charleston and Beaufort.Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction People wade through floodwaters with a boat in Nichols, South Carolina, on Monday, October 10. Hurricane Matthew caused flooding and damage in the Southeast -- from Florida to North Carolina -- after slamming Haiti and other countries in the Caribbean. Hide Caption 1 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Workers repair downed power lines in Daytona Beach, Florida, on October 10. Hide Caption 2 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Rescue teams maneuver through floodwaters in Lumberton, North Carolina, on October 10. President Barack Obama has declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered federal aid to supplement state, tribal and local recovery efforts. Hide Caption 3 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Floodwaters inundate a home in Lumberton on October 10. Hide Caption 4 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Floodwaters surround a house in Nichols, South Carolina, on October 10. Hide Caption 5 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley checks flooding near Nichols on October 10. Hide Caption 6 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Floodwaters surround power lines near Nichols on October 10. Hide Caption 7 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Without power in the hurricane's aftermath, Missy Zinc shines a light so her husband, Shawn, can prepare steaks to grill in Hilton Head, South Carolina, on Sunday, October 9. Hide Caption 8 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Anthony Writebol, left, and his cousin Melissa Hill paddle past a stranded tractor-trailer in Lumberton on October 9. Hide Caption 9 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A man clings to a road sign after trying to swim out to help a stranded truck driver in Hope Mills, North Carolina, on October 9. Both were rescued. Hide Caption 10 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction People stop and take pictures of Highway 58, which was flooded in Nashville, North Carolina, on October 9. Hide Caption 11 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Boats are pushed up among twisted docks in Hilton Head on October 9. Hide Caption 12 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Rescue workers help several dogs that were trapped in homes in Pinetops, North Carolina, on October 9. Hide Caption 13 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A section of Wayne Memorial Drive was washed out in Goldsboro, North Carolina. Hide Caption 14 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction John Tweedy wades into the swift-moving floodwaters surrounding his business in McClellanville, South Carolina, on Saturday, October 8. Hide Caption 15 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A woman who gave her name only as Valerie walks along flooded President Street after leaving her homeless camp in Savannah, Georgia, on October 8. Hide Caption 16 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Volunteers clear debris from from a pool at a condominium complex in Jacksonville Beach, Florida, on October 8. Hide Caption 17 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A police officer steps through the remnants of a home leveled by Hurricane Matthew in the tiny beach community of Edisto Beach, South Carolina, on October 8. Hide Caption 18 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A downed tree and power lines block a road on Georgia's St. Simons Island on October 8. Hide Caption 19 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A woman fights the wind in Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina, on October 8. Hide Caption 20 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Parts of Highway A1A in Flagler Beach, Florida, were washed away by Hurricane Matthew on Friday, October 7. Hide Caption 21 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Water flows over a seawall and fills the streets of St. Augustine, Florida, on October 7. Hide Caption 22 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Barbara Hearst tapes her storm shutters as Hurricane Matthew nears Charleston, South Carolina, on October 7. Hide Caption 23 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Adam and Alec Selent watch waves crash over a retainer wall at the Ocean Club condominiums in Isle of Palms, South Carolina, on October 7. Hide Caption 24 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A damaged boat sits partially submerged on the intercoastal waterway in Melbourne, Florida, on October 7. Hide Caption 25 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A police officer helps persuade a woman to board a bus and evacuate Savannah, Georgia, on October 7. Hide Caption 26 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Preston Payne tries to hold his umbrella on Georgia's Tybee Island on October 7. Hide Caption 27 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Heavy waves pound boat docks in Cocoa Beach, Florida, on October 7. Hide Caption 28 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A women helps a dog walk through floodwaters in Port Orange, Florida, on October 7. Hide Caption 29 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Damage in Cocoa Beach. Hide Caption 30 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Waves crash against a bridge in St. Augustine, Florida. Hide Caption 31 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A car drives past a downed tree as the hurricane moves through Daytona Beach, Florida, on October 7. Hide Caption 32 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A billboard canvas flaps in the wind after Hurricane Matthew passed North Palm Beach, Florida, on October 7. Hide Caption 33 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A woman inspects her damaged car under a tree in Fort Pierce, Florida, on October 7. Hide Caption 34 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A space shuttle model stands near some downed trees after Hurricane Matthew passed by Cocoa Beach. Hide Caption 35 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A woman uses her phone under a battery-operated lantern at a hotel in Titusville, Florida, on October 7. Hide Caption 36 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Palm trees on Cocoa Beach sway in the wind on October 7. Hide Caption 37 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Firefighters respond to a pre-dawn house fire in Satellite Beach, Florida, that was possibly caused by a downed power line on October 7. Hide Caption 38 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Heavy rain billows in front of Exploration Tower in Cape Canaveral, Florida, on October 7. Hide Caption 39 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction People stand on a beach in Broward County, Florida, as the storm approached the coast on Thursday, October 6. Hide Caption 40 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A police officer walks along the beach in Singer Island, Florida, on October 6. Hide Caption 41 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Kevin Forde and John Haughey put plywood on a Miami Beach window on October 6. Hide Caption 42 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Hurricane Matthew moves through Paradise Island in Nassau, Bahamas, on October 6. Capt. Stephen Russell, the head of the Bahamas National Emergency Management Authority, said there were many downed trees and power lines but no reports of casualties. Hide Caption 43 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction People leave Disney's Magic Kingdom theme park, in heavy rain, after it closed in Orlando, Florida in preparation for the landfall of Hurricane Matthew, on October 6. Hide Caption 44 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A man rakes up debris from a storm drain as he begins cleanup near a damaged gas station in Nassau on October 6. Hide Caption 45 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Residents repair their homes in Les Cayes, Haiti, on October 6. The damage from Hurricane Matthew was especially brutal in southern Haiti, where sustained winds of 130 mph punished the country. Hide Caption 46 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Girls hold hands as they help each other wade through a flooded street in Les Cayes on October 6. Hide Caption 47 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Two days after the storm, authorities and aid workers in Haiti still lacked a clear picture of what they fear is the country's biggest disaster in years. Hide Caption 48 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A supermarket shelf is nearly cleared out in Titusville, Florida, on Wednesday, October 5. Hide Caption 49 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Bumper-to-bumper traffic lines Interstate 26 in Columbia, South Carolina, as people drive west on October 5. Hide Caption 50 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Workers start removing umbrellas and the colorful rocking chairs that line the Cocoa Beach Pier in Cocoa Beach, Florida, on October 5. Hide Caption 51 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction People carry a coffin and try to cross the La Digue river on October 5 after a bridge collapsed in Petit-Goave, Haiti. Hide Caption 52 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction People cross the La Digue river on October 5. Hide Caption 53 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Evacuees return to their homes in the Carbonera community of Guantanamo, Cuba, on October 5. Hide Caption 54 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction People embrace at their damaged home in Baracoa, Cuba. The hurricane rolled across the sparsely populated tip of Cuba, destroying dozens of homes in the country's easternmost city and leaving hundreds of others damaged. Hide Caption 55 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A woman cries amid the rubble of her home in Baracoa. Hide Caption 56 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Bus drivers in North Charleston, South Carolina, wait for word to start evacuations. Hide Caption 57 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction The high winds of Hurricane Matthew roar over Baracoa on Tuesday, October 4. Hide Caption 58 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Beth Johnson fills up her car at a gas station in Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina, on October 4. Hide Caption 59 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction The mother of two girls who died in the storm is comforted near her home in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, on October 4. The girls were killed when a landslide caused by flooding breached the walls of their house. Hide Caption 60 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A worker clears a sewer on a flooded street in Santo Domingo. Hide Caption 61 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Anita Baranyi feeds her baby while keeping an eye on the generator she intends to purchase from a home-improvement store in Oakland Park, Florida, on October 4. Hide Caption 62 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction People wade through the flooded streets of Cite Soleil in the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince on October 4. Hurricane Matthew is the strongest storm to hit Haiti since 1964 and the first hurricane to make landfall in the country since the devastating earthquake in 2010. Hide Caption 63 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction People observe the flooding of a river near Port-au-Prince on October 4. Hide Caption 64 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Children swim in a flooded neighborhood of Santo Domingo on October 4. Hide Caption 65 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A truck used as public transportation drives through flooded streets in Port-au-Prince on October 4. Hide Caption 66 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Hurricane winds blow against palm trees in Port-au-Prince. Hide Caption 67 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A food vendor lays out goods for sale during a light rain in Port-au-Prince on October 4. Hide Caption 68 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Haitian civil protection workers arrive to evacuate the Tabarre region of Haiti on October 3. Hide Caption 69 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Officials urge residents to evacuate their homes in the Grise River area of Tabarre on October 3. Hide Caption 70 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Clouds loom over the hills of the Petionville suburb of Port-au-Prince on October 3. Hide Caption 71 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Families seek shelter from Hurricane Matthew at a university facility in Guantanamo, Cuba. Hide Caption 72 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction People near Kingston, Jamaica, take a photo in front of the rough surf produced by Hurricane Matthew on October 3. Hide Caption 73 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A backhoe removes garbage to clear a canal in Port-au-Prince on October 3. Hide Caption 74 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Nice Simon, the mayor of Tabarre, Haiti, holds a baby as she helps evacuate the area along a river. Hide Caption 75 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction People stock up on food at a supermarket in Port-au-Prince on Sunday, October 2. Hide Caption 76 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A worker dismantles a traffic light in Santiago before Hurricane Matthew struck Cuba. Hide Caption 77 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Motorists drive through heavy rains in Kingston, Jamaica, on October 2. Hide Caption 78 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction Residents of Cuba's Holguin Province line up to buy gas on October 2. Hide Caption 79 of 80 Photos: Hurricane Matthew's path of destruction A worker nails a board to a storefront window in Kingston on Saturday, October 1. Hide Caption 80 of 80An estimated 250,000 residents evacuated from Charleston and Beaufort, said Kim Stenson, the director of South Carolina Emergency Management. He said as many as 200,000 people will leave Thursday.Tempers apparently flared during the slow traffic out of Charleston. A man got out of his truck at point where vehicles were being redirected, removed a traffic cone and sped away. Police chased the man until he stopped on a dead-end road. Berkeley County Chief Deputy Mike Cochran told CNN that the man fired at deputies and police officers, who shot back and wounded the man.The man was hospitalized, but his condition is unknown.The South Carolina Department of Transportation changed the directions of eastbound traffic lanes to accommodate the exodus of people leaving coastal cities like Charleston.There were traffic jams on I-26 as far west as Columbia, South Carolina.But as thousands fled inland Wednesday, not everyone chose to evacuate. In Charleston, which likely will see the powerful storm's impact this weekend, some people were boarding up businesses."I think we're staying put," Cheryl Quinn told CNN's Stephanie Elam.Quinn and her husband said they were fine a year ago when Charleston endured heavy rain after a brush with a big storm."It was kind of a party down here. I hate to say that," because storms can be scary, she added.Still, Quinn has reserved a hotel room just in case.North Carolina playing it by earNorth Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory declared a state of emergency for more than half the state's 100 counties. The changing forecast now predicts the storm won't have as great an impact on the state as once feared, and Matthew might even turn around before it gets there.JUST WATCHED See Hurricane Matthew churn from space Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See Hurricane Matthew churn from space 00:45"We're just going to have to play it by ear and have our resources ready," the governor said.Officials are still concerned areas in eastern North Carolina that were recently flooded will see drenching rains from Matthew.Georgia governor: 'Remain calm, be prepared'Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal has declared a state of emergency in 30 counties on or near the Atlantic Coast.In six of those coastal counties -- Chatham, Bryan, Liberty, McIntosh, Glynn and Camden -- Deal urged residents to voluntarily evacuate."I urge Georgians in the affected areas to remain calm, be prepared and make informed, responsible decisions as we continue to monitor Hurricane Matthew's path," Deal said.Residents of islands just east of Savannah were being urged to evacuate. A mandatory order was in effect in Tybee Island.