(CNN) Another day, another...nuclear test? That's how you know North Korea is in the news. Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. North KoreaWe might be looking at yet another nuclear test from North Korea soon . North Korean monitoring service 38 North says the country's Punggye-ri nuclear site is "primed and ready" for a sixth test. Add that to the fact Japan recently said North Korea may be capable of delivering missiles with sarin gas (the same gas believed to be used in that horrible attack in Syria last), and it's a recipe for problems.While we're talking about North Korea, the naval battle group the US has sent to the Korean Peninsula and President Trump's strong rhetoric against the country have actually fueled the North Korean propaganda machine . It looks like each side is bracing for an act of aggression from the other.2. SyriaSpeaking of sarin gas, the US now has more evidence as to who was responsible for the sarin attack in Idlib last week that killed at least 70 people. According to a senior US official, the US military and intelligence community has intercepted communications featuring Syrian military and chemical experts talking about preparations for the attack.JUST WATCHED Russian drone flew over scene after gas attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Russian drone flew over scene after gas attack 03:143. White HouseJUST WATCHED Trump reverses view on campaign statements Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump reverses view on campaign statements 02:484. VenezuelaUnrest in Venezuela reached a fever pitch at a parade meant to celebrate the country's independence . Violent protests disrupted the festivities, where President Nicolas Maduro was in attendance. Maduro, who has weathered threats of impeachment and calls for his resignation, is only part of the woes plaguing the Venezuelan people. The country is also experiencing an economic crisis, which has led to to a food and medicine shortage. At least four people have been killed and hundreds injured in the wave of violent protests that have rocked the country since the beginning of the month.JUST WATCHED Protesters and police clash in Venezuela Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Protesters and police clash in Venezuela 00:105. Sheila Abdus-SalaamSheila Abdus-Salaam, the first African-American woman appointed to the New York Court of Appeals , was found dead in the Hudson River yesterday. The incident is under investigation and the cause of death is not yet known. Her passing sparked mourning among politicians in New York and beyond. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo called her a "trailblazing jurist and a force for good." Abdus-Salaam's death came the same week a prominent Chicago judge was killed outside his home Monday. A suspect in that case has been charged with first-degree murder in the death of Judge Raymond MylesJUST WATCHED New York judge found dead in Hudson River Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New York judge found dead in Hudson River 01:00BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Comedian Charlie Murphy dies after leukemia battleSt. Louis is suing the NFL for letting their football team go to LAA church in Alabama could soon get its own police forceThey just need to decide whether, you know, it's constitutional or notNewlyweds contract rare brain parasite on Hawaiian honeymoonFemale surgeons are posing like this New Yorker coverIt features an all-female team in an operating room, and it is awesomeWHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening later todayAttorneys and family for David Dao, the man forcibly removed from a United Airlines flight , will hold a news conference in Chicago at 11 a.m. ET.AND FINALLY ...No, you're not seeing things