(CNN) Planet of the apes is fiction, but the island of the apes is not . Check it out, then find out what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. AfghanistanThe Taliban have received better weapons in Afghanistan that may have come from the Russians , according to exclusive videos obtained by CNN. These two videos show sniper rifles, Kalashnikov variants and heavy machine guns that weapons experts say are stripped of any means of identifying their origin. For months American and Afghan officials have accused Moscow of arming the Taliban, but Russia's Foreign Ministry has previously called such allegations "utterly false."2. Heath careIt's another do-or-die day in the GOP effort to kill Obamacare. Today the Senate will vote on a motion to proceed on the House health care bill. If that passes -- and at this point that's a huge if -- then all of the amendment-making and deal making will start up again in earnest. What it all will lead to is anybody's guess. President Donald Trump's piling on the pressure , but we'll see if that will work.But here's some good news no matter what side of the political aisle you're on -- Sen. John McCain's coming back to Washington for the vote, his first trip to the Capitol since getting his brain cancer diagnosis.JUST WATCHED McCain returning to Senate for critical vote Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH McCain returning to Senate for critical vote 01:303. Jeff SessionsJUST WATCHED Officials: Days since Trump, Sessions talked Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Officials: Days since Trump, Sessions talked 01:414. Human smuggling deathsThe driver of a tractor-trailer where several undocumented immigrants died is now facing federal charges . James Matthew Bradley Jr., 60, of Florida was charged with knowingly transporting undocumented immigrants. But Bradley told investigators he had no idea dozens of people were inside the semi. The death toll is now 10. Eight died in the truck, and two more died at a hospital. The survivors describe a hellish scene. It was so hot inside that people took turns breathing fresh air from a hole in the truck. Others banged on the wall to get the driver's attention, but he kept going. Doctors say many of the survivors will suffer from "irreversible brain damage."JUST WATCHED Tractor-trailer driver due in court Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tractor-trailer driver due in court 01:225. The moonWe already knew there was water on the moon, but we didn't know there's a lot of it -- until now. Scientists at Brown University say they've found evidence of water trapped in "glass beads" on the moon's surface. These beads are in volcanic deposits found all over the moon. It's not clear just how much water may be in these beads, but the lead scientist for this research says it's more "than previously recognized." This finding could be a boon for future moon missions because water could potentially be extracted from volcanic deposits.JUST WATCHED Study suggests water in moon's interior Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Study suggests water in moon's interior 00:56QUOTE OF THE DAY"If it was a guy from South Texas, I might ask him to step outside and settle this Aaron Burr-style."Blake Farenthold of Texas, US Rep.of Texas, expressing his frustration with GOP holdouts on the Senate's effort to repeal Obamacare. Three of the senators who are current "no" votes are women.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Set for lifeTalk about a good investment: A Florida teen's $1 scratch-off ticket turned into $26,000 every year for the rest of her life.RIP, PaintIt's the home of our first digital doodles, but Microsoft's durable Paint application probably won't survive the next Windows update.Word of the dayFlashbackAlice Cooper's probably forgotten a lot about the '70s. That's not surprising, but this is: He forgot about an Andy Warhol painting he owns that's been sitting in storage for years.So sorryJustin Bieber's canceling the rest of his Purpose Tour . He didn't say why, but he's getting some rest and riding some bikes.AND FINALLY ...Knight life