(CNN) So. Much. News. this morning, so let's get straight to it. Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President TrumpDonald Trump went after the special counsel investigating his administration, the former FBI director and even his own attorney general during an interview published in The New York Times. Trump pretty much warned special counsel Robert Mueller not to start looking into his family finances, saying that would be "a violation." He accused former FBI Director James Comey of trying to hold that infamous dossier as leverage over him. But he saved most of his ire for Attorney General Jeff Sessions, saying he wouldn't have picked Sessions as his AG if he'd known Sessions would recuse himself from the Russia probeSpeaking of Russia, an all-star trio will testify next week to Senate committees . Donald Trump Jr. and ex-Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort will appear before the Senate judiciary committee, while Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner will talk with the Senate intelligence committee. The three are sure to be asked about that meeting last summer at Trump Tower with a Russian lawyer promising dirt on Hillary Clinton.And finally, the President shed some light on his previously undisclosed second meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin during the G20 summit, saying the two leaders just shared "pleasantries."2. John McCainJUST WATCHED Dr. Sanjay Gupta speaks exclusively with McCain's doctors Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dr. Sanjay Gupta speaks exclusively with McCain's doctors 01:593. Health care billThe GOP's labored effort to kill Obamacare is alive after all? Maybe. The President had almost all the GOP senators over for lunch at the White House, saying "inaction" isn't an option and they must do whatever it takes to repeal and replace Obamacare . That's just the exact opposite of what he'd said a day earlier -- when Trump said he'd just let Obamacare fail and wait for the Democrats to come running, seeking a solution -- but whatever.JUST WATCHED Trump summons Senate GOP to talk health care Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump summons Senate GOP to talk health care 02:45So, a Senate vote on something -- repeal only? repeal and replace? -- will probably happen next week, but approval doesn't look promising. One GOP senator says there aren't even 40 votes out there in favor of a repeal. And this little bombshell from the CBO doesn't help things either: A repeal-only bill would leave 32 million more people without health insurance by 2026, AND premiums would double by then. Yikes.4. O.J. SimpsonJUST WATCHED O.J. Simpson to seek parole Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH O.J. Simpson to seek parole 02:055. Minneapolis police shootingThe family of Justine Ruszczyk wants to bring her body home -- and find out exactly how a woman who called police to report a possible sexual assault ended up getting shot and killed by the very police who responded. Transcripts of the two 911 calls she made on the night of the shooting were released. There's dispatch audio that's out, too, that captures officers' anxiety as they tried to save Ruszczyk's life after the shooting. Investigators also want to talk to a man on a bike who watched the officers perform CPR on RuszczykJUST WATCHED 911 transcripts of woman killed by police Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 911 transcripts of woman killed by police 01:50NUMBER OF THE DAY991Number of tweets Trump sent in his first six months in office -- one of several ways to consider his fledgling presidency by the numbersJUST WATCHED Six months of the Trump presidency in photos Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Six months of the Trump presidency in photos 00:52BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.John McTime travelA woman takes the ultimate trip down memory lane when she retakes her European vacation photos in the same spots 30 years later.Ice breakerAcross the world glaciers are in retreat, but not in the desert of north India, where an artificial glacier growsRoad tripThey wanted to visit grandpa's farm, so a pair of brothers, ages 5 and 2, grabbed mom's extra set of car keys and hit the open road.Just a beat awayWho needs a heart of gold when a 3-D printer can push out a heart of silicon that actually beats.In defense of touristsWe know everybody wants to "do it like a local" when they travel, but there's actually nothing wrong with being a straight-up tourist, either.AND FINALLY ...Best buds