We all know what's good for us. More whole grains, less Netflix bingeing! More moving, less slouching at a desk drinking coffee by the gallon! Blah, blah, blah. Well, here's a healthy recommendation that actually seems fun: A recent study shows that spending time in nature is measurably good for you . Just two hours a week of hiking, bird-watching or other nature-centric activities help improve people's mental and physical well-being. That's assuming, of course, that you don't forget your sunscreen. Or bug spray. Or proper shoes. And that you get home before dark. But actually, it doesn't even need to be that hard. The key to better health could be just a walk in the park -- literally. Let's lace up and explore this week's Good Stuff.Our favorites this weekGet going with some of our most popular good news stories of the week50 states, hundreds of good deedsRodney Smith Jr. has been around the country ... and around ... and around ... and around again. In fact, Smith has been to all 50 states five times each, mowing lawns for people in need. He's the founder of Raising Men Lawn Care , a foundation that seeks to empower young men to make a difference through offering free lawn care for people such as seniors, single moms and those with disabilities. For his fifth nationwide "tour," Smith and his lawn care partner, Yuri Williams, decided to focus on veterans. "We need to help our veterans," Smith says. "We need to do more. They have sacrificed their lives so the least we can do is help them when they need it." Unsurprisingly, people are in love with the work Smith does, and various companies and groups have stepped up to sponsor his travel and expenses. After all, the world needs mow people like him (sorry, we had to).A fan in need, a fan indeedGiant, shiny, beautiful trophies are cool, but have you ever seen a kid's eyes light up when they see their biggest hero? Unless you've been hiding under a glacier, you probably know that the St. Louis Blues just won their first Stanley Cup. But one of the best stories of the whole season didn't happen on the ice; it's the one about Laila Anderson, an 11-year-old Blues superfan who got to share in the team's historic moment of joy . Laila has a rare immune disorder, but she still cheered on her beloved Blues all through the playoffs. The Blues even invited her to Boston to watch the final game. You see, the players love Laila just as much as she loves them. She's a bit of a celebrity among the Blues faithful, and the players call her their good luck charm. Sure enough, when they clinched the title, she was right there celebrating with them. And really, isn't that what sports is all about?From the pound to the precinctIt boggles the mind why someone would just abandon a dog, but at least in this sweet girl's case, she came out on top. Karma was abandoned near a park in Denver and spent days wandering around before a family finally caught her and took her to the vet. Karma is a Belgian Malinois, one of the most common types of dogs used for military and police work, so the vet contacted the Front Range Explosives Detection K-9 Group to see whether she could be placed in a program. Sure enough, a deputy at the Denver Sheriff Department was in need of a new K-9 partner . The two got along famously, and Karma completed all of her police training in April. Once she's sworn in, she'll go to work sniffing out potential explosives and making sure city buildings are safe. If that isn't a glow-up, we don't know what is.Raise a glass to...Volunteer Shaquin Thomas delivers Mr. Ronald foodLauren Mulvihill, an Uber driver from Georgia who ended up acting as a guardian angel for an older veteran. When Mulvihill dropped 89-year-old Ronald Dembner off at his home at the end of a ride, she noticed he was living in extremely messy and unsanitary conditions. The World War II vet is in good mind, but has a hard time getting around to clean up his house and pick up after his dog. , an Uber driver from Georgia who ended up acting as a guardian angel for an older veteran. When Mulvihill dropped 89-year-old Ronald Dembner off at his home at the end of a ride, she noticed he was living in extremely messy and unsanitary conditions. The World War II vet is in good mind, but has a hard time getting around to clean up his house and pick up after his dog. Mulvihill decided to ask social media for help cleaning up Dembner's home , and within a week, dozens of volunteers -- like Shaquin Thomas, above -- had helped remove trash and old furniture, deliver meals and even rip up carpet in preparation for new floors. Mulvihill has also helped set up in-home health care so Dembner never has to feel like he's alone in the world again.A bright ideaThis is genius. Ella Casano, a 12-year-old from Connecticut, has an autoimmune disease that requires her to have IV infusions every six to eight weeks. Like so many of us, Casano is kind of scared by IV bags and needles, so she invented a teddy bear to hide them ! She even made the first one herself, and now a "Medi Teddy" fundraiser has raised thousands of dollars so other kids can get the same comfort.You gotta see thisWell, if there is life on Mars, it looks like they're Trekkies. NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter captured this uncanny image of a chevron on the surface of Mars. Doesn't it look exactly like the symbol for "Star Trek's" Starfleet? It's actually the impression of a dune left behind in some hardened lava, which is pretty cool. But we're still not ruling out the possibility that aliens have been pirating popular TV shows for decades and this is just an attempt to show us which one they like the best.Wanna get away?It'll nearly be like a picture print by Currier and Ives! Great, this photo reminded me of a lyric from"Sleigh Ride" and now I have that stuck in my head. In June. This gorgeous view of Upernavik, a tiny fishing village in Greenland, won photographer Weimin Chu the Grand Prize in the cities category of National Geographic's 2019 Travel Photographer of the Year contest . A wintry fairyland, indeed! Ah, dangit.Who knew?Apparently some fish can form emotional attachments, and when they get lovesick, their outlook on life gets bleaker. Researchers at the University of Burgundy performed a series of tests on convict cichlids , a type of fish, and measured their moods. When the fish weren't paired with their preferred partner they got, well, mopey. Is it weird that we find this really sweet? Not the piscine pessimism part, just the idea that some little fishies want love and will go through the trouble of being sad if they don't get it. Same, fishies. Same.Tell us something goodNashvilleSeventeen! Seventeen staffers at in the Emergency Unit at Vanderbilt University Medical Center are expecting. Fourteen nurses, two doctors and one social worker are due between July and December, so let's just say that unit is going to get REALLY interesting in a few months. The moms-to-be say the department has been very supportive in helping manage the stress of trauma work and organizing staffing so everything -- and everyone -- in the unit stays in tip-top shape. Saving lives AND creating them, that's what these women do!Impact your worldIt's Father's Day this weekend, so warmest thoughts to all the dads, dads-to-be and father figures out there. For all those missing their dads, or dads missing their children, or anyone else who may be having a hard time, we're thinking about you, too. Here are a few great ways to observe Father's Day by giving back , whether it's volunteering, babysitting for the overwhelmed dad in your life or reaching out to someone who may be feeling lonely.Shameless animal videoThere's always time for cute animal videos. That time is now.