If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Like human heroes, some dogs run into burning buildings. Science says there's a good reason for that .Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Campaign 2020The stage was full last night in Miami as the first Democratic debate of the 2020 race kicked off. Ten candidates, many of them polling in single digits, did their best to break through and differentiate themselves. Elizabeth Warren, surging in the polls, seemed to be the center of attention, and her ideas -- on everything from health care to the economy -- dominated the early part of the debate. Julian Castro was the night's surprise, CNN's Maeve Reston wrote. He gave an impassioned argument about immigration and went hard after Beto O'Rourke.2. ImmigrationThe House and Senate are set for a border battle. The GOP-led Senate yesterday passed a $4.6 billion bill to address the migrant crisis at the Mexican border. It's slightly different from the $4.5 billion bill the Democratically led House passed Tuesday. The Senate's not taking up the House bill, and the House won't vote on the Senate bill. Republicans in the Senate feel like they're in a stronger position because their bill passed with bipartisan votes, and President Trump has indicated he might sign it. So, they are essentially daring the House to take or leave the Senate bill. Congress heads out this week for a monthlong break, so if lawmakers want to send immediate aid to migrant children in border facilities, something needs to be worked out soon. Meantime, CNN toured one of the controversial facilities yesterday. Here's what we found.JUST WATCHED Trump: I'm very concerned about conditions at border Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: I'm very concerned about conditions at border 02:523. G20 summitPresident Trump just touched down in Osaka, Japan, to meet with world leaders at the G20 summit . His most anticipated meeting is set for Saturday, when he sits down with Chinese President Xi Jinping to talk about trade. The hope is the two leaders can reach a deal that'll end the ongoing trade war. Trump will probably talk trade with India's Prime Minister, too. In a tweet a few hours ago, Trump blasted Narendra Modi for what the President called India's "unacceptable" tariffs on US goods. The situation in the Middle East -- with heightened tensions between the US and Iran -- will no doubt come up in Japan as well. After the summit, the President will stop in South Korea, where plans are being made for him to visit the Demilitarized Zone.JUST WATCHED Trump: What I say to Putin is none of your business Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: What I say to Putin is none of your business 01:474. Bahamas shark attackA California woman was killed after she was attacked by three sharks while snorkeling in the Bahamas. Jordan Lindsay was with her family yesterday when the sharks attacked. Her relatives saw the sharks coming and tried to warn her, but she didn't hear them in time. Lindsay, 21, was bitten on her arms, legs and buttocks. She was pulled from the water and taken to a hospital, where she died.JUST WATCHED Know your shark attack stats Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Know your shark attack stats 01:305. Climate crisisChanges to climate patterns could create a whole new world of haves and have nots. The prediction comes from a new UN report that says 120 million people could slip into poverty within the next decade because of the climate emergency. A "climate apartheid" is envisioned, where the rich pay to escape the worst effects of climate change, while the rest of the world fends for itself. And most countries aren't on track to meet their climate targets: President Trump pulled the US out of the 2015 Paris climate accord; an EU proposal to curb carbon emissions died last week; and the G20 is set to water down its climate promises during its summit in Japan.JUST WATCHED Why can't we seem to care about the climate crisis? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why can't we seem to care about the climate crisis? 02:12BREAKFAST BROWSEFree at lastThe new trailer for the last season of "Orange Is the New Black" is out. Looks like lead character Piper Chapman is out, too.2 + 19 = excitementA pair of albino alligators mated and produced 19 eggs , raising hopes at a Florida animal park for a bounty of the rare white creatures.What happened to 'West of Westeros?'After her Arya Stark slayed the Night King on "Game of Thrones," actress Maisie Williams gets to play another tough girl in her next role.Meet the 'megetables'First there were plant-based meats. Now, Arby's is testing out vegetables made out of meatJUST WATCHED Arby's 'Megetables' are literally vegetables made of meat Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Arby's 'Megetables' are literally vegetables made of meat 01:05Final destination?Those Google Maps detours aren't always right. Just ask the nearly 100 drivers who took one on the way to the Denver airport and ended up in an empty fieldHAPPENING LATERLast dayThe Supreme Court today is expected to issue the remaining opinions of its term, including a closely watched case regarding a possible citizenship question on the census and another on partisan gerrymandering.JUST WATCHED Honig: Implications of SCOTUS decision on census are huge Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Honig: Implications of SCOTUS decision on census are huge 01:06TODAY'S QUOTE"I fully support whatever decision they make, but it does worry me from a parent point of view, you know, how many barriers, hateful words, persecution, all that, and discrimination that might come."TODAY'S NUMBER101.5JUST WATCHED Europe faces early summer heat wave Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Europe faces early summer heat wave 02:14TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe weather threat across the northern Plains Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe weather threat across the northern Plains 01:41AND FINALLYMobile market