If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Today is Anthony Bourdain's birthday . Two of the late CNN host's longtime friends, chefs José Andrés and Eric Ripert, want fans to share memories of him with the hashtag #BourdainDay.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. ImmigrationNearly 250 migrant children held in reportedly poor conditions at a Customs and Border Protection facility in Texas will be moved . The children should be in the Department of Health and Human Services' shelter system by today. The move comes after a team of lawyers, doctors and advocates warned of major health and hygiene problems -- including in some cases a lack of soap -- after visiting multiple US Customs and Border Protection facilities in the state. The Trump administration argued in court last week that detained migrant children didn't need toothbrushes, medicine and blankets in order to be held in "safe and sanitary conditions."Meanwhile, Mexico has deployed about 15,000 troops to its US border (on top of the 2,000 service members it's sent to its southern border with Belize and Guatemala). Mexico is under renewed pressure from the Trump administration to help slow migration flows northward.JUST WATCHED Lawyer: Migrant children are taking care of toddlers in El Paso Border Control Patrol Station Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lawyer: Migrant children are taking care of toddlers in El Paso Border Control Patrol Station 02:03And the parents of Gurupreet Kaur, the 6-year-old girl from India who died near the US-Mexico border, have spoken out , explaining the predicament that ultimately ended in her death. "We trust that every parent, regardless of origin, color or creed, will understand that no mother or father ever puts their child in harm's way unless they are desperate," they said.2. US and IranJUST WATCHED Iran threatens to shoot down more US aircraft Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iran threatens to shoot down more US aircraft 01:593. Bill GatesAn unlikely voice is joining the chorus calling for government regulation of Big Tech companies: the founder of Microsoft. Bill Gates told the Economic Club of Washington DC that "the government needs to get involved" because technology has become so central to all areas of our lives . Microsoft's big tech rivals -- Apple, Google, Amazon and Facebook -- all face increased scrutiny from the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice, which could lead to antitrust investigations. Microsoft had its own antitrust lawsuit to deal with two decades ago and ended up changing some of its business practices after a settlement with the Justice Department.JUST WATCHED On GPS: Bill Gates talks current events Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH On GPS: Bill Gates talks current events 08:254. MyanmarWe told you last week about the internet being switched off in parts of Ethiopia. Now, the government in Myanmar has shut down mobile data networks in parts of that country. It was done "for the sake of security and the public interest," a Myanmar communications official said, and services will resume when "stability is restored." A top UN official warned of "serious implications for human rights" in places where mobile internet services were cut.The affected areas include Rakhine state, where violence had forced more than 720,000 Rohingya to flee into Bangladesh. US lawmakers and human rights groups say the anti-Rohingya crackdown amounts to ethnic cleansing and even genocide. Internet shutdowns have become increasingly common across the world in recent years, especially in Asia, often after protests or other anti-government activity. By the way, the internet is back on in EthiopiaJUST WATCHED Who are the Rohingya and why are they fleeing? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who are the Rohingya and why are they fleeing? 02:305. WeatherSummer is only a few days old, but already Europe is facing down a big-time heat wave. A "potentially dangerous" blast of hot air is forecast to engulf the continent this week. Temperatures are expected to hit 100 degrees Fahrenheit in France, Germany, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Switzerland and Italy. The uncommon heat could hang around until the start of July, one forecasting agency predicts. A climate professor in Germany says heat waves like this will happen more frequently because of climate change . He notes the hottest summers in Europe since the 16th century have all come in the past 17 years.JUST WATCHED Europe to experience heat wave Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Europe to experience heat wave 01:29BREAKFAST BROWSEWelcome back"The Hills" is back on MTV , and this latest reality TV reboot might as well have taken its cast -- and us -- back to high school.1 day = 48 hours?Amazon Prime Day is coming back next month, and it's going to be so big it will last for two whole daysWhat's your sign?Facebook is creating a new cryptocurrency called Libra, and the people most upset about it seem to be ... Libras.JUST WATCHED Facebook unveils Libra, a new cryptocurrency. Here are the details Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Facebook unveils Libra, a new cryptocurrency. Here are the details 02:08Not forgottenKorean War vet Dale Quick died this month and left no known survivors. Still, hundreds of people showed up for his funeralHAPPENING LATERNot just blowing smokeSan Francisco could become the first US city to ban e-cigarette sales. The city's board of supervisors votes today on thatJUST WATCHED CNN investigates Juul's social media practices Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN investigates Juul's social media practices 02:28THIS JUST IN ...We have liftoffSpaceX's Falcon Heavy rocket -- the most powerful launch vehicle in the world -- took off overnight from a launch pad in Florida carrying 24 experimental satellites.TODAY'S NUMBER34The number of bridesmaids a New Orleans woman had in her wedding. She says she would have had more if she could.The bride with a few of her bridesmaids nearbyTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED More storms to impact the central US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH More storms to impact the central US 01:39AND FINALLYTake your pick