(CNN) Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. London attack2. Russia investigationThe FBI has information that indicates associates of President Donald Trump communicated with suspected Russian operatives to possibly coordinate the release of information damaging to Hillary Clinton's campaign, US officials told CNN. Neither the White House nor the FBI have commented. And that wasn't the day's only bombshell. House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes, a Republican, stunned everyone when he revealed that communications of Trump and his associates may have been picked up post-election by intel agencies spying on foreign targets. Nunes rushed to brief the President -- before telling members of his own committee. Now Democrats are ticked, saying Nunes put a "cloud" over the investigation. Trump says he feels partially vindicated in his claims that he was being watched3. Health care billJUST WATCHED GOP's health care bill: Winners and losers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH GOP's health care bill: Winners and losers 01:554. Racial stabbingJUST WATCHED Police: Stabbing was racially motivated Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police: Stabbing was racially motivated 00:59A Baltimore man walked into a police station in New York and made a stunning announcement: he had stabbed a man to death on a Manhattan street simply because the victim was black . Police say the suspect had harbored feelings of hate toward black men for a decade before he caught a bus from Maryland, scoped out a target and stabbed his victim, who was rummaging through garbage, several times in the back.5. Rivers"Ol' Man River" isn't just a song anymore. India is now the second country to give human status to a river . It's the latest move in a long-running fight against pollution. An Indian court declared the Yamuna and Ganges rivers "living entities" on the grounds the waterways are "losing their very existence." The move comes a week after New Zealand gave the Whanganui River "all the corresponding right, duties and liabilities of a legal person." In both cases, guardians were appointed to speak for the rivers, which provide water to millions and have deep spiritual meaning for those who live nearby.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Fright flight"This is your captain speaking. Sit back and enjoy the flight. And, oh yeah, there's a snake loose on the plane ." Flying in Alaska can be stressful.How I spent my spring breakAhhh, spring break: chilling on the beach, partying with your friends and saving total strangers from a house fire on your way to breakfast.I'll take thatSomething only a 3-year-old could get away with: meet the Pope, then reach out and steal his hatJUST WATCHED Little girl tries to steal Pope's hat Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Little girl tries to steal Pope's hat 00:46Birthday bashHe's 94, a World War II vet and just won $300,000 in the lottery. Now that's how you celebrate a birthday!Rapper's delightA doctor by night, a rapper by day ; Umar Malik of New Mexico wants to show his children a better way.AND FINALLY ...Wanna bet?