(CNN) Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. Health careA new wrinkle in the Republicans' new health care bill: The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has released its hotly anticipated assessment of the plan, and it's not all good. The CBO found 24 million more Americans would be uninsured by 2026 under the House Republican health care bill than under Obamacare, including 14 million by next year. However, the bill would also reduce the federal deficit by $337 billion over 10 years.GOP House Speaker Paul Ryan took to Twitter to point out that the bill would lower premiums and give people more choices. Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price was more blunt : "We disagree strenuously with the report that was put out," he said.2. Extreme weatherMother Nature is a cruel mistress. Just days before the official start of spring, 31 million people are under a blizzard warning in the Northeast . Schools are closed, almost 8,000 flights have been canceled, and if we know anything about winter storms, the whole region is completely sold out of bread and milk.For real, though, states of emergency have been declared in Maryland, Virginia, New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. There's a state-wide travel ban in Connecticut today. And New York City could get as much as 20 inches of snow. Stay safe, everyone.3. BrexitBrexit is a go, literally and figuratively. The British Parliament has passed a bill that will allow Prime Minister Theresa May to start talks to leave the European Union . The Queen will now sign it into law, clearing the way for May to trigger Article 50, beginning the process by which Britain will give up its EU membership.This whole process could start pretty soon, but Scottish lawmakers are pumping the brakes . The First Minister of Scotland said she will ask the Scottish Parliament to consider another independence referendum for Scotland since its people mostly voted against Brexit. If that went through, Scotland would gain independence from the UK. Scotxit?4. Trump administration5. ZikaBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Here's how children are celebrating #MyFreedomDay5 fake news stories that just don't go awayTexas bill would fine men $100 every time they masturbateKids asked to make 'slave auction' posters for class assignment"We are rethinking the ... project for next year," the superintendent saidWoman who wrote viral 'dating profile' column about her husband diesTODAY'S NUMBER3.1415926535897932384...AND FINALLY ...It's OK to want dessert for breakfast, right?