(CNN) Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. BrexitBrexit is a go: UK Prime Minister Theresa May will trigger Article 50 today, kick-starting the process that will see Britain leave the European Union in the next two years. How will it affect the UK? The better question is: How won't it? Pro-Brexit politicians have promised a lengthy list of improvements, from new trade deals to huge savings on EU payments. Whether these all pan out remains to be seen.Meanwhile in Scotland, where Brexit was not very popular at all, lawmakers have v oted in favor of a new independence referendum that, if allowed and approved by voters, could break up the UK. Brexit and then ... Scoxit? Yikes.2. Climate changePresident Donald Trump signed a sweeping executive order yesterday that seriously curbs environmental regulations in hopes of producing more jobs. Carbon emissions regulations? Out. Coal mining on federal lands? Back in. The order is essentially a nightmare for scientists and environmentalists , but it's a big fulfillment of one of the President's marquee campaign promises.3. MosulJUST WATCHED A walk through the devastation of West Mosul Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A walk through the devastation of West Mosul 02:22A March 17 airstrike in the Iraqi city resulted in the deaths of at least 112 civilians , and now the top US commander in Iraq says "there's a fair chance" the US was responsible. Both the Iraqi and US defense departments have launched investigations into possible civilian deaths in airstrikes between March 17 and 23. The city of Mosul is ISIS' last major stronghold in Iraq, and US Army Lt. Gen. Stephen Townsend said it is possible ISIS deliberately "lured" US forces to locations where civilian casualties would be high.4. Health careRepublicans insisted they had no Plan B for their plan to repeal and replace Obamacare. But after that plan was scuttled last week before it could even get a vote, there is, all of a sudden, a Plan B. President Trump, who seemed content to let the Affordable Care Act "explode" and move on to tax reform, told a bipartisan group of senators last night, "I know we're going to make a deal on health care, that's such an easy one."House Speaker Paul Ryan also said the Republicans would move forward on a new angle . What is it, and when will it happen? "I won't tell you the timeline because we want to get it right," Ryan said.5. Tennessee kidnappingBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Trump had to turn down offer to throw out first pitch on Opening DayScientists could use stem cells to create an endless supply of bloodYour daily reminder that we are living in the F-U-T-U-R-EPic of undocumented immigrant paying her taxes goes viralA new app helps you reach your member of CongressThe 'Fresh Prince of Bel-Air' cast reunited for a fancy photoNUMBER OF THE DAY770,000The number of US drone registrations in the past 15 months. That's a lot of drones!AND FINALLY ...This little girl loves her "robot" friend