Story highlights The civil rights leader's estate filed a complaint to force Bernice King to turn over the itemsShe says her brothers want them to sell them, but "some things are not for sale"The siblings have sued and countersued one another, including 2008 filingThe children of Martin Luther King Jr. are back at loggerheads -- this time over his Bible and Nobel Peace Prize.The estate of the civil rights icon filed a complaint in Fulton County Superior Court in Atlanta on Friday to force Bernice King, his daughter , to turn over the items.King's heirs agreed in 1995 to give up their inheritance to the Estate of Martin Luther King Jr. Inc., the complaint reads.Bernice King has "repeatedly acknowledged and conceded the validity" of the agreement, but has "secreted and sequestered" the items in question, it says.Specifically, the estate -- which is controlled by Dexter King and Martin Luther King III -- wants his 1964 Nobel Peace Prize and his traveling Bible, which was used by President Barack Obama when he was sworn in for his second term.Caption: US clergyman and leader of the Movement against Racial Segregation Martin Luther King, displays 10 December 1964 in Oslo his Nobel Peace Prize medal. The only black man whose birthday is a national holiday, Martin Luther King was the leader of the moral fight against racism in America wen he was fatally shot by James Earl Ray 04 April 1968 at the age of 39. (Photo credit should read -/AFP/Getty Images)Bernice King says her brothers just want the items to sell them.JUST WATCHED MLK children fight over dad's treasures Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH MLK children fight over dad's treasures 02:41"Our Father MUST be turning in his grave," she said in a Tuesday statement."While I love my brothers dearly, this latest decision by them is extremely troubling. Not only am I appalled and utterly ashamed, I am frankly disappointed that they would even entertain the thought of selling these precious items. It reveals a desperation beyond comprehension."The complaint does not mention the possibility of a sale, and attempts to contact the King brothers, through the estate, Tuesday were unsuccessful.This is not the first time the family has been at odds over King's legacy. Over the years, the siblings have sued and counter-sued one another.Bernice King and Martin Luther King III sued Dexter King in 2008, accusing him of converting "substantial funds from the estate's financial account at Bank of America" for his own use. They later agreed to a settlement and avoided a public trial."My brothers' decision to sue me is drastic and grieves me greatly. I have absolutely no desire to be in court or to fight yet another public battle," Bernice King said in her statement Tuesday."Nevertheless, some actions are sacrilegious and some things are not for sale."