Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Alex Rodriguez: Performance-enhancing drugs – Alex Rodriguez is suspended for the 2014 regular and postseason over accusations of taking performance-enhancing drugs and having ties to the now-shuttered Biogenesis clinic in South Florida. Hide Caption 1 of 12Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Barry Bonds: Perjury indictment – Barry Bonds is baseball's all-time home run leader, but some commentators say there should be an asterisk by his record. Though he's said he never knowingly used steroids, two San Francisco reporters wrote a book alleging he used performance-enhancing drugs. In 2007, he was indicted on charges of perjury and obstructing justice for allegedly lying to a grand jury investigating steroids and convicted of obstruction of justice. Here are some of Major League Baseball's biggest scandals: Hide Caption 2 of 12Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Roger Clemens: Steroid allegations – Known as Rocket for his aggressive pitching style, Roger Clemens played pro ball for more than two decades, racking up seven Cy Young Awards. He left Major League Baseball under a cloud of steroid allegations, despite a court finding him not guilty of perjury in 2012 when he told Congress he never used the drugs. Hide Caption 3 of 12Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Rafael Palmeiro: Steroid suspension – After his former Texas Rangers teammate Jose Canseco accused him of using steroids, Rafael Palmeiro appeared before Congress in 2005 to deny the allegations. Later that year, he was suspended from baseball for testing positive for steroids. He maintains to this day he has never knowingly taken performance enhancers. Hide Caption 4 of 12Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Mark McGwire: Steroids admission – An Olympian and renowned long-ball hitter, Mark McGwire spent his entire career with the Oakland A's and St. Louis Cardinals, breaking the single-season home run record in 1998. In 2010, he admitted using steroids over the course of a decade but told Bob Costas in an interview he took them only for health reasons. Hide Caption 5 of 12Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals John Rocker: Outrageous comments – John Rocker's pitching career with the Atlanta Braves only lasted a few seasons because of his offensive comments about homosexuals, New Yorkers, Asian women and a black teammate in a Sports Illustrated article. Rocker faced large backlash and ultimately was cut by the Braves in 2001 and played for three other teams before calling it quits in 2003. Hide Caption 6 of 12Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Marge Schott: Hitler observation – Cincinnati Reds owner Marge Schott faced lawsuits, fines from the MLB and suspensions during her career for her offhand comments and actions. Schott told ESPN in 1996 that "Hitler was good in the beginning, but he went too far." That comment drew a $25,000 fine and one-year suspension. Hide Caption 7 of 12Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals George Steinbrenner: Dirty dealings – Former New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, center, was banned for life in 1990 for hiring a man to investigate Yankees outfielder Dave Winfield's background for any dirt. The ban was later reduced to a two-year suspension. Hide Caption 8 of 12Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Pete Rose: Gambling on baseball – Cincinnati Reds switch-hitter Pete Rose was caught gambling on baseball games during the 1987 season. Fingerprints from betting slips and a handwriting expert's testimony ultimately led to Rose being banned from baseball. Hide Caption 9 of 12Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Darryl Strawberry: Cocaine, prostitutes – Darryl Strawberry, right, was suspended multiple times throughout his career for cocaine possession and soliciting prostitutes. Strawberry released a book in which he claims that several players with the 1980s Mets committed the same offenses. Hide Caption 10 of 12Photos: Photos: Baseball's biggest scandals Ferguson Jenkins: First drug suspension – Pitcher Ferguson Jenkins was the first baseball player to be suspended for a drug-related offense. Ferguson was arrested in Toronto in 1980 for cocaine possession and promptly banned for life. However, the ban was lifted only a month later and he returned to the pitchers mound for the Chicago Cubs in 1982. Hide Caption 11 of 12