Story highlights Northwest getting much-needed rainUtility workers head to Pennsylvania to help restore powerAnother system is forecast to bring snow to the region this weekendBut it's not expected to produce as many problems in the NortheastFirst came the whiteouts, then the blackouts.Utility companies scrambled Friday to restore power to the Northeast as hundreds of thousands shivered.A powerful snowstorm had moved Wednesday from the Midwest, arriving Thursday in the Northeast. It whacked a string of states along the way, dumping 13 inches of snow on Kansas, more than 10 inches on parts of Massachusetts and 4 inches on New York.In some areas, ice snapped tree limbs and downed power lines, causing massive blackouts.Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – Workmen clear a downed tree blocking a school bus in the aftermath of a winter storm on Friday, February 7, in Downingtown, Pennsylvania. Utility companies scrambled to restore power to parts of the Northeast early Friday as hundreds of thousands shivered in the dark after a powerful snowstorm. Hide Caption 1 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A tree limb fallen across a utility line and an abandoned car block a road in Media, Pennsylvania, on Thursday, February 6. Hide Caption 2 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A woman shovels snow in New York's SoHo neighborhood on Wednesday, February 5. Hide Caption 3 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A woman fights the wind and snow in Chicago on February 5. Hide Caption 4 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A wave of snow is kicked up as a truck clears a street in North Andover, Massachusetts, on February 5. Hide Caption 5 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A woman ducks under a utility line next to a downed tree in Philadelphia on February 5. Hide Caption 6 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A man leaps over a slushy curb in New York City on February 5. Hide Caption 7 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – Snow piles up on a dock near a frozen pond in Carmel, Indiana, on February 5. Hide Caption 8 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A man and a girl walk down a street February 5 in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New York City. Hide Caption 9 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – Crews clear snow as ice pellets fall in Hartford, Connecticut, on February 5. Hide Caption 10 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A New York City transit official checks the tracks at the Times Square subway station on February 5. Hide Caption 11 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – Law enforcement officials evaluate the scene of a crash on Interstate 29 in St. Joseph, Missouri, on Tuesday, February 4. Hide Caption 12 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – Tree limbs hang heavy with ice in front of the Capitol building in Little Rock, Arkansas, on February 4. Hide Caption 13 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A person crosses a snowy parking garage in Owensboro, Kentucky, on February 4. Hide Caption 14 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – Lt. Rick Lucy of the Baxter County Sheriff's Office helps Donna Mullaney up an embankment in Mountain Home, Arkansas, after she lost control of her vehicle on an icy road February 4. Hide Caption 15 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – Road salt gets loaded onto a snowplow truck in Glen Ellyn, Illinois, on February 4. Hide Caption 16 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A woman and child take a walk at the North Chagrin Reservation in Willoughby Hills, Ohio, on February 4. Hide Caption 17 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A salt truck clears a road in Columbia, Missouri, on February 4. Hide Caption 18 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A woman makes her way through the snow on the University of Kansas campus in Lawrence on February 4. Hide Caption 19 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A United Airlines jet is de-iced before taking off from New Jersey's Newark Liberty International Airport on Monday, February 3. Hide Caption 20 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – Drew Brown, left, and Matt Robbins sleep on the floor at LaGuardia Airport on February 3 after heavy snow in New York affected their flight. The winter storm stranded thousands of fans trying to head home after the Super Bowl. Hide Caption 21 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A man tries to shield himself from the snowfall in New York on February 3. Hide Caption 22 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – Pedestrians trudge through dirty snow and slush as they pass through New York's Union Square on February 3. Hide Caption 23 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A police officer walks a woman to his vehicle after her car slid off the road and was stranded on top of a guardrail February 3 in State College, Pennsylvania. Hide Caption 24 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – Snow covers tree branches February 3 in Pottsville, Pennsylvania. Hide Caption 25 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A pedestrian braves the wind and snow in New York on February 3. Hide Caption 26 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A school bus drives down the street during a snowstorm in Brooklyn, New York, on February 3. Hide Caption 27 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A construction worker unloads steel bars from a truck during a snowstorm in Brooklyn on February 3. Hide Caption 28 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A pedestrian walks against the snow and wind on 42nd Street in New York on February 3. Hide Caption 29 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – Commuters wait for a train as snow falls in New York on February 3. Hide Caption 30 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A man uses the handrail to get into a subway station February 3 on New York's Lower East Side. Hide Caption 31 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – City workers clear snow and ice from stairs in Brooklyn on February 3. Hide Caption 32 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A taxi driver walks beside his vehicle in the parking lot of Terminal B at LaGuardia Airport on February 3. Hide Caption 33 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – Plows clear runways February 3 at Newark Liberty International Airport. Hide Caption 34 of 35 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast Snowstorm slams the heartland, Northeast – A woman walks through Washington Square Park as snow falls in New York on February 3. Hide Caption 35 of 35JUST WATCHED After storm, thousands without power Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH After storm, thousands without power 01:49JUST WATCHED Winter storm batters U.S. Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Winter storm batters U.S. 01:24JUST WATCHED Winter far from over Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Winter far from over 02:50The vast majority of those who lost their power should see it restored Friday, though some may have to wait until Sunday, company spokeswoman Debbie Yemenijian said.Utility crews from Arkansas, Illinois, Massachusetts, New York, Ohio and Canada joined PECO's workers to fix the damage, the company said.In all, more than 1,500 workers were in the field, it said.In the Baltimore area, about 19,000 homes and businesses remained without power early Friday, utility Baltimore Gas and Electric Co. said on its website.Tens of thousands more were without power elsewhere in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, with a handful of outages remaining in Ohio as well.By Friday evening, more than 270,000 customers were still with power in the Mid-Atlantic states.The wet, heavy snow may have pleased children who got a snow day, but some grownups were not applauding."Harder to push, not as easy actually to plow," said Boston snowplow driver Nick Sfravara. "It's definitely a challenge to get this stuff out of the way rather than the light stuff."Another system is forecast to bring snow to the region this weekend, but it's not expected to produce as many problems, CNN meteorologists said.On the West Coast, much-needed rain and snow should continue through the weekend.In Washington State, one person was killed and several others injured in a 28-car crash on Interstate 5 in Washington state after a new winter storm blew in off the Pacific, CNN affiliate KPTV reported.Portland, Oregon, got 3.8 inches of snow on Thursday, the fifth-greatest February snowfall since 1940. Thursday was also the coldest day in February since 1989, with a high of 23 degrees.A second round of snow is expected to fall Friday afternoon, according to KPTV.San Francisco received nearly three quarters of an inch of rain on Thursday. Another several inches are expected in the inland valleys and 8 to 10 inches in the coastal mountains through the weekend, bringing the possibility of flooding.Snow showers from the Midwest to the Northeast were expected to drop 2 to 4 inches of snow from the Midwest to the Northeast over the weekend.Cold air will hang on through the weekend, with highs 10 to 20 degreess below average. Another round of cold is expected to move Sunday into the Upper Midwest, with highs predicted at 30 degrees below average.