Story highlights Ku Klux Klan recruitment fliers are turning up on driveways across the countryFliers, usually left with candies, appear to be part of a wider recruitment effortThe Klan may be seizing on a time when race and immigration are dominant issues, some sayCarlos Enrique Londo単o laughs at the Ku Klux Klan recruitment flier recently left on the driveway of his suburban New York home. It's unlikely the group would accept him."I'm Colombian and dark-skinned," said Londo単o, a painter and construction worker who has lived in Hampton Bays on Long Island for 30 years.The flier was tucked into a plastic bag along with a membership application, the address for the KKK national office in North Carolina, a list of beliefs and three Jolly Rancher candies.The packages appear to be part of a wider recruitment effort by the Klan across the country, Ryan Lenz, senior writer for the Southern Poverty Law Center, told CNN on Saturday.Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan Gen. Nathan Forrest, a former Confederate soldier, slave trader and plantation owner, became Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan in 1867. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan Actors in the silent film "The Birth of a Nation," released in 1915, portrayed Ku Klux Klan members dressed in full regalia and riding horses. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan William Joseph Simmons founded the second Ku Klux Klan on Thanksgiving 1915 after seeing "The Birth of a Nation." Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan Ku Klux Klan members crawl out of a tunnel after a meeting in 1922. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan Nelson Burroughs was kidnapped by members of the Ku Klux Klan and branded with hot irons in 1924 because he refused to renounce his Catholic vows. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan Klan members march in a parade in Washington in 1927. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan A Klan member hangs a noose out of a car window to intimidate black voters in Miami in 1939. Members drove 75 cars through the streets that day. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan A cross burns in a field during a Ku Klux Klan rally in 1946. Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan Stetson Kennedy, an activist who infiltrated the Ku Klux Klan and wrote about it in his book Southern Exposure, poses in KKK garb in 1947 and demonstrates the sign for the Oath of Secrecy. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan A group of 58 Ku Klux Klan members marched through Pell City, Alabama, in 1949 with their faces uncovered, in accordance with a new state law. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan The knights of the Ku Klux Klan formed a baseball team in Tennessee in 1957. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan A woman dressed in Ku Klux Klan regalia holds her baby at a KKK meeting in Beaufort, South Carolina, in 1965. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan Ku Klux Klan members chant "white power" during a rally to recruit members on the steps of the Defiance, Ohio, courthouse in 1999. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: Roots of the Ku Klux Klan Members of the Knights of the Southern Cross of the Ku Klux Klan, joined by members of other Virginia Klan orders, participate in a cross lighting ceremony on May 28, 2011, near Powhatan, Virginia. Hide Caption 14 of 14JUST WATCHED KKK fliers covered a Texas neighborhood Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH KKK fliers covered a Texas neighborhood 01:36JUST WATCHED How he became a member of the KKK Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How he became a member of the KKK 01:36JUST WATCHED Mom defends son's KKK costume Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mom defends son's KKK costume 01:29Similar fliers have turned up in dozens of U.S. cities over the past six months, Lenz said. The SPLC was founded by civil rights lawyers, and is known for tracking and exposing the activities of such groups.The SPLC says the Ku Klux Klan is the most infamous and oldest of American hate groups. African-Americans have been the main target of the historically violent group, but the Klan also has targeted Jews, immigrants, gays, lesbians and Catholics.The center estimates that there are between 5,000 and 8,000 Klan members nationwide, divided among dozens of divergent and warring groups."Since the 1970s the Klan has been greatly weakened by internal conflicts, court cases, a seemingly endless series of splits and government infiltration," the SPLC says on its website.The Klan's Loyal White Knights, the same group touted on the applications sprinkled on front lawns in Hampton Bays, has started major recruitment efforts, according to Lenz.Renewed efforts after Ferguson shooting, unrest?Lenz suspects the Klan may be seizing on a moment when the issues of race and immigration are dominant in the national debate. The group may be seeking to capitalize on growing racial tension to garner support, he said.Some Klan members even vowed to head to Ferguson, Missouri, to stand in the solidarity with a white police officer who shot an unarmed black teenager on August 9, Lenz said. The shooting death drew international attention as the St. Louis suburb erupted with sometimes violent protests and a heavy-handed police response.Calls seeking comment from Klan headquarters in Pelham, North Carolina, were not returned Saturday.In New York, the Southampton Town Police said it had contacted the Suffolk County Police Department's hate crimes unit about the fliers.Londo単o said the Klan appeared eager to send a message in the predominantly white town."It seems they want the white community to know that Latinos are moving in," he said. "People are coming here for the work and that does not sit well with them and they feel intimidated."Hampton Bays resident Karen Fritsch said the fliers included faded-ink "crude (and) ridiculous" caricatures that appeared aimed at blacks, Latinos and Jewish people."It says, beware, we want your jobs, we want your home and we want your country," Fritsch said of the message.Fritsch said she was shocked when her husband found the small package on her front lawn last week."It's terrible that my neighbors had to receive something like that," Frisch said of the Londo単os. "I really want no part of that. Why would anyone want to be part of a hate group?"Fliers part of a 'national night ride'The Klan has targeted other cities.In Orange, California, just south of Angel Stadium, residents last month received fliers in sealed plastic bags, according to CNN affiliate KTLAThe message on the fliers was "Save our land, join the Klan" and included a phone number and website in Pelham, KTLA reported. The group said it was focused on illegal immigration from Mexico.The voicemail on the hotline associated with the flier closes with the message: "Always remember: If it ain't white, it ain't right. White power."In Seneca, South Carolina, some residents last month received bags with fliers and candy, CNN affiliate WHNS reported. The packages directed people to a "Klan Hotline" number that ended with the same recorded "white power" message, the station reported.Robert Jones, the "Imperial Klaliff" of the Loyal White Knights sect, told WHNS that the effort was part of the Klan's "national night ride" -- a recruitment event that happens three times a year.Jones said recruitment efforts were not aimed at specific people and that residents "shouldn't be fearful unless they're doing something that the Klan considers morally wrong," according to WHNS.In Katy, Texas, residents early last month received fliers inviting them to "join the fight to protect U.S. borders," according to CNN affiliate KPRCDamian Neveaux, who is African-American, found a flier and called the number because he, too, was concerned about border security, KPRC reported.He reached a Klan representative who told him he would not be allowed to join."'The only way you can become a member is if you're 100 percent Caucasian," Neveaux recalled the Klan member telling him, according to KPRC. "This flier wasn't meant for you.'"