If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. SyriaThe US is considering making more bold moves in Syria . The Pentagon is weighing deploying tanks or other armored vehicles to the country for the first time to help US troops defend oil fields. This option is on the table not long after a troop withdrawal plan effectively ended an important US alliance with Syrian Kurds and created space for Russia and Turkey to gain more influence in the region. President Trump also suggested yesterday in a tweet that Syrian Kurds consider moving from their homelands in northern Syria to the eastern region that houses the oil fields. That would be a tall order, to say the least. For one, it would entail possibly millions of people uprooting from their homelands to head for a desert hundreds of miles away. Plus, the area near the oil fields is home to an Arab majority, an indigenous population that is unlikely to welcome a sudden influx of Kurds.2. California wildfiresJUST WATCHED Extreme fire risk and a flash flood threat this weekend Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Extreme fire risk and a flash flood threat this weekend 01:473. BrexitRemember how Brexit was supposed to get done at the end of the month? Well, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has finally conceded that he won't be able to fulfill his campaign promise of an October 31 Brexit date. Now, it looks like the EU may give the UK until the end of January to figure things out. And there's a lot to be done. Johnson's withdrawal plan still faces several hurdles, and he said yesterday that he would give UK lawmakers more time to debate his Brexit deal if they agree to an early general election on December 12. An election would give Johnson a chance to secure a Parliamentary majority and could make approving his Brexit bill easier. Unsurprisingly, many lawmakers are not thrilled with the proposal and think Johnson is trying to, as Green Party MP Caroline Lucas tweeted, "have his cake & eat it."JUST WATCHED Here's what you need to know about Brexit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's what you need to know about Brexit 03:134. Impeachment inquiryTop Republicans are getting more aggressive in their pushback on the House impeachment proceedings. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham introduced a resolution that condemns the impeachment process and claims House Democrats are "denying President Trump basic fairness and due process accorded every American." The resolution also calls on the House to hold a vote to initiate a formal inquiry. Republicans this week have harped on what they see as an unnecessary level of opacity in the impeachment inquiry proceedings. House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff has said that his committee will release transcripts and hold public hearings, but for now, the fact-finding part of the investigation is being done behind closed doors, like a grand jury before a trial.JUST WATCHED Trump voter shifts stance on impeachment. Here's why Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump voter shifts stance on impeachment. Here's why 02:255. VapingJUST WATCHED E-cigs market to teens using big tobacco tactics Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH E-cigs market to teens using big tobacco tactics 06:09BREAKFAST BROWSENASA's Curiosity rover paused to take a selfie while conducting an experiment on MarsWalmart wants robots in its stores to scan shelves and mop up spillsGoogle is getting better at deciphering your awkward search queriesAt least do us the courtesy of seeming confused , Google.7 snorkeling grandmas spot venomous sea snakes and helped scientistsThey call themselves the "Fantastic Grandmothers," and they help document and photograph things for researchers. Stupendous!TOTAL RECALLQuiz time!Lebanese protesters sang this song to a toddler who was frightened by the crowd of people surrounding his mother's car.A. The ABCs songB. "Everything's Gonna Be Alright"C. "Baby Shark"D. "The Wheels on the Bus"TODAY'S NUMBER$2 billionThe estimated cost of damages wrought by a series of tornadoes that tore through the Dallas area last weekend. At that price point, the outbreak is the costliest in the state's historyTODAY'S QUOTE"Our music, and what we say lyrically couldn't be more different, but the outcome was much the same ... offering a room full of people a few minutes of joy in a crazy world."TobyMac, Christian recording artist paying tribute to his son Truett McKeehan, 21, who died WednesdayJUST WATCHED Son of Grammy-winning Christian hip-hop artist found dead Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Son of Grammy-winning Christian hip-hop artist found dead 01:06TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Thousands forced to flee as California wildfires spread Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Thousands forced to flee as California wildfires spread 01:32AND FINALLYThe rat race