If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Which country has the world's most powerful passport ? There's actually a tie for that title, and they're both in Asia.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. PoliticsWhat will the State Department's inspector general say? That's the question on everybody's mind this morning, after the inspector general requested an urgent, private briefing with senior congressional staff members. It's not entirely clear what information the inspector general will provide in today's briefing, but it's happening as Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has pushed back on House Democrats' demands to turn over documents related to Ukraine and to depose current and former State officials as part of the impeachment inquiry . Pompeo accused the Democrats of "bullying" State Department staffers; the Dems said Pompeo needs to stop "intimidating" witnessesMeanwhile, President Trump ramped up his anti-impeachment rhetoric and continued his verbal assault on the whistleblower who filed the complaint that alleges the President abused his powers. Trump and his allies have repeatedly maligned the whistleblower's motives and pushed to reveal the person's identity. In a tweet yesterday , the President wondered, "Why aren't we entitled to interview & learn everything about the Whistleblower, and also the person who gave all of the false information to him." But GOP Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa criticized Trump on that, saying the whistleblower " ought to be heard out and protected ." Grassley has been a longtime defender of whistleblowers.JUST WATCHED Trump broke his own record for tweeting while in office Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump broke his own record for tweeting while in office 01:34And finally, a headline came out last night that on any other day would be the lead story: The President suggested shooting migrants in the legs to slow them down after they cross the southern border. The shocking suggestion, The New York Times reported, came during a meeting in March in which Trump pushed for the shutdown of the entire US-Mexico border. CNN has reached out to the White House for comment.JUST WATCHED NYT: Trump suggested shooting migrants in the legs Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NYT: Trump suggested shooting migrants in the legs 01:472. North KoreaThe US and North Korea agreed yesterday to resume nuclear talks . Then, the North marked this progress by firing off another ballistic missile earlier today. The missile was launched from an underwater launch platform, but it was not fired from a submarine, a US official told CNN. However, the missile that was tested is designed to function as a submarine-launched ballistic missile. It was fired off North Korea's east coast and landed in waters off Japan. Negotiations on denuclearization have stalled since February, when Trump cut short his meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Vietnam.JUST WATCHED North Korea launches missile after agreeing to talks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North Korea launches missile after agreeing to talks 02:023. EconomyJUST WATCHED The trade war's latest victim: Manufacturing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The trade war's latest victim: Manufacturing 02:374. Opioid crisisPharmaceutical giant Johnson & Johnson said it reached a $20.4 million settlement with two Ohio counties . In the settlement with Cuyahoga and Summit counties, the company admits no wrongdoing. Johnson & Johnson will also give $5.4 million to nonprofit groups in connection with opioid-related programs. The settlement comes as a landmark opioid trial is set to start later this month that combines nearly 2,000 cases involving cities, counties, communities and tribal lands. It accuses drug manufacturers, distributors, pharmacies and practitioners of shipping "hundreds of millions" of suspicious opioid doses over 20 years to their jurisdictions.JUST WATCHED Why are opioids so addictive? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why are opioids so addictive? 00:555. Affirmative actionA federal judge upheld Harvard's admission process after a group representing Asian-American applicants challenged it. The group argued at trial that the school's "personal" rating system hurts Asian-Americans and favors blacks and Hispanics, who generally have lower standardized test scores than Asian-Americans. The judge ruled that the university's admissions process, while "not perfect," is still constitutional. But this is probably not the end of this closely watched case. It's likely to be appealed and end up in the Supreme Court.JUST WATCHED Harvard admissions case could end affirmative action Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Harvard admissions case could end affirmative action 04:12TODAY'S QUOTE"My life has not been the same. It's just been like a roller coaster."Allison Jean, mother of Botham Jean, testifying yesterday during the sentencing hearing for ex-Dallas police officer Amber Guyger. A jury hours earlier found Guyger , mother of Botham Jean, testifying yesterday during the sentencing hearing for ex-Dallas police officer Amber Guyger. A jury hours earlier found Guyger guilty of murdering Jean after she entered his apartment, thinking it was her own, and shot him.JUST WATCHED Watch moment verdict read in court for Amber Guyger Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch moment verdict read in court for Amber Guyger 02:22BREAKFAST BROWSEDrop the puckIt may not feel like fall where you are right now, but it is October, and that means a new NHL season is upon us. Click here to get ready for it.Let's do it againFifteen years ago, a little girl and a Harvard police officer posed for a photo on campus. Now, she's a freshman at the school, so they took another onePerfect matchA high school football team with no band invited a high school band with no football team to play at its game.Deuces wildA lot of people picked the numbers 2-2-2-2 in South Carolina's lottery. They also won a lot of money.JUST WATCHED What happens when you win the lottery? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What happens when you win the lottery? 01:22Running with the big boysWhat's the best strategy for winning a 10K? How about taking a wrong turn in a 5K . That's what this 9-year-old Minnesota boy did.TODAY'S NUMBER957,892The number of arrests among children younger than 15 in the past five years in the United States, FBI statistics showTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Record heat from the Northeast to the Gulf Coast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Record heat from the Northeast to the Gulf Coast 01:43HAPPENING LATERIf you can't get 'Hamilton' tickets ..."Freestyle Love Supreme," the new improvisatory hip-hop musical by Lin-Manuel Miranda, opens today on BroadwayAND FINALLYDinner date