(CNN) Have you ever wondered why so many creative bigwigs seem to sport black turtlenecks? Thank the French. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.1. Canada electionsJUST WATCHED Why Justin Trudeau's reelection is no sure thing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Justin Trudeau's reelection is no sure thing 02:52Canadians are going to the polls today to vote in their general election, and all signs point to it being quite the fight. The two top contenders are current Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who is Liberal, and Conservative leader Andrew Scheer. Through it all, they've been virtually deadlocked in a tie for the popular vote. That's complicated enough, but remember that Canada operates on a parliamentary system. There are 338 seats across the country up for vote, and 170 seats are needed to form a majority government. Polls show neither Trudeau nor Scheer are anywhere near that threshold, so the winner of the populat vote still may not have the support needed to actually fulfill that requirement. Both of the main candidates have had major challenges leading up to the election. Trudeau has been beset by flubs and scandals in recent months. In September, he admitted to wearing blackface during a school event two decades ago. Scheer, meanwhile, surprised voters during the campaign when he disclosed the fact he is actually an American citizen, with dual citizenship in Canada and the US. It doesn't disqualify him, it's just an interesting thing to be noting years into one's career as a Canadian politician.2. ProtestsJUST WATCHED Violence erupts against the jailing of Catalan leaders Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Violence erupts against the jailing of Catalan leaders 01:33Violent protests across the globe are continuing to threaten lives and cripple major cities. Over the weekend in Santiago, Chile, three people died in a supermarket fire that was linked to dayslong protests over a proposed hike in public transport costs. Weekend unrest moved the Chilean government to instate a city-wide curfew, and on Saturday Chilean President Sebastian Piñera said that ministers will suspend the plan to increase the price of subway tickets. Spain is entering its second week of protests over a court ruling regarding Catalan politicians. Last Monday, the politicians were handed heavy sentences by the Spanish Supreme Court for their role in an independence movement that tried to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain two years ago. Meanwhile, violent protests in Hong Kong have entered their 20th week. Chinese state media drew parallels among the protests, saying Chilean and Spanish protesters were mimicking Hong Kong tactics.