(CNN) Mission, Texas, Police Cpl. Jose "Speedy" Espericueta couldn't wait to watch his 13-year-old son play in his first football game."The one thing he couldn't stop talking about was Joaquin starting football this year," Police Officer Javier Lara told CNN on Sunday.But Espericueta never got the chance. He was shot and killed in June, becoming the first Mission police officer to die in the line of duty in over 40 years.On Saturday, officers from across south Texas took his place. The Mission Police Department, Hidalgo County Sheriff's Office and US Customs and Border Protection were among a " sea of law enforcement " who went to Cathey Middle School in McAllen to watch Espericueta's son, Joaquin, play in his first 7th grade football game, where he was named an honorary captain."We made a promise to the family that we're gonna be there for special events," Lara said. "Being the first football game, we gathered agencies from across the valley to let him know that we're still there, even though his dad's not."Mission 👮🏻 officers vowed to take care of Cpl. Espericueta's family. They kept that promise as they showed up for Joaquin's 1st football 🏈 game. Speedy's son was named honorary capt. So many officers & city leaders were there to support! #ThisIsForSpeedy 💙 pic.twitter.com/Mg6fPzp9kY — City of Mission, TX (@CityOfMissionTX) September 21, 2019#RGV Sector #BorderPatrol agents joined local police officers today to support the son of fallen hero, Cpl. Joey "Speedy" Espericueta. A sea of law enforcement watched Joaquin who was named honorary captain for his first 7th grade football game! #BackTheBlue #HonorFirst pic.twitter.com/SaMWFbbIr8 — CBP RGV (@CBPRGV) September 22, 2019A true blessing for the Sheriff's Office to have attended Corporal Jose "Speedy" Espericueta's son's first football game 2019. An amazing experience to see the law enforcement community continue coming together to show, he will never be forgotten! #myHCSO pic.twitter.com/g9qcozQEYs — Hidalgo County SO (@HidalgoCountySO) September 21, 2019Read More