In 39 weeks, 30 officers have been shot and killed in the line of duty in 2019.The manner of the deaths don't follow any pattern, said Robyn Small with the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund . Some officers died responding to robberies or domestic disturbances. Others were ambushed.At the end of September 2018, 38 officers had been shot and killed while on duty, and 47 officers were gunned down by the year's end, according to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund"While we're pleased to see the number of officer line-of-duty deaths has decreased so far this year, even one officer death is too many," Small said.Here's a list of the officers who've been gunned down while on duty in the US in 2019.The parameters CNN followed in this count are:• The officer was fatally shot this year.• The officer was on duty at the time of the shooting.• The officer did not die by friendly fire.September 27Harris County (Texas) Deputy Sheriff Sandeep DhaliwalDeputy Sandeep Dhaliwal was killed when a suspect shot him in the back of the head during a traffic stop. The first Sikh deputy in Harris County, Dhaliwal made history in 2015 when the department allowed him to wear a turban in uniform. He was beloved by the Houston community he served.September 20Mandeville (Louisiana) Police Captain Vincent "Vinny" Liberto, Jr.Capt. Vincent Liberto, 58, was killed when a routine traffic stop ended in a shootout . Liberto left behind a wife and seven children, many of whom are active members of law enforcement and the military, the department said.September 16Tuscaloosa (Alabama) Police Officer Dornell CousetteOfficer Dornell Cousette, 40, was attempting to arrest a 20-year-old suspect on multiple felony warrants when the suspect shot and killed him. Cousette had served the department for more than 13 years.August 24Texas Highway Patrol Officer Moises SanchezOfficer Moises Sanchez succumbed to gunshot wounds he sustained in April, when a suspect in a car crash he responded to fled and shot him in Edinburg, Texas, CNN affiliate KTVT reported. He previously served in the US Marine Corps.August 23Illinois State Police Trooper Nicholas HopkinsNicholas Hopkins, an Illinois State Trooper who was shot while executing a warrant, died Friday night, according to Director of the Illinois State Police Brendan Kelly.Trooper Nicholas Hopkins was shot and killed while serving a search warrant in East St. Louis. The 10-year state police veteran left behind a wife and three children.August 12California Highway Patrol Officer Andre MoyeOfficer Andre Moye, 34, was in his third year with the department when he was shot and killed by a man whose truck was being impounded. Inland Division Chief Bill Dance said Moye considered his work a "dream job."July 18Stone County (Arkansas) Sheriff's Office Sergeant Michael StephenSgt. Michael Stephen was shot and killed while responding to a domestic call . He was speaking to a woman outside her home when the suspect opened fire on him and the woman, who was taken to the hospital with non-life-threatening injuries. Stephen was a 20-year veteran of law enforcement.July 7Hall County (Georgia) Sheriff's Deputy Nicolas DixonDeputy Nicolas Dixon was killed after trying to stop a stolen vehicle suspected to have been involved in multiple burglaries. The suspect was shot, officials say, and may be charged with felony murder.June 25Fulton County (Illinois) Deputy Sheriff Troy ChisumDeputy Troy Chisum was responding to a domestic disturbance call in which a man had barricaded himself inside a home. During the ensuing altercation, he was shot and killed.June 23North County Police Cooperative (Missouri) Officer Michael LangsdorfOfficer Michael Langsdorf was shot and killed after he responded to a call about a man who was reportedly trying to cash a bad check. The 17-year veteran of the force was engaged to be married and left behind two children.June 20Mission (Texas) Cpl. Jose EspericuetaCpl. Jose Espericueta was gunned down while pursuing a suspect who a woman said had shot at her car. He'd recently received a Meritorious Service Award after saving a woman from a burning house, CNN affiliate KGBT reported.June 19Sacramento (California) Police Officer Tara O'SullivanDuring a domestic disturbance call, Officer Tara O'Sullivan was shot and lay bleeding on the ground for nearly an hour while other officers battled a gunman. She later died at a hospital. She had just recently graduated from the police academy.May 19Auburn (Alabama) Police Officer William BuechnerOfficer William Buechner was responding to a domestic-disturbance call when a suspect fired on him and two other officers. Buechner, who had served the department for 13 years, was killed . The other officers were wounded but were expected to recover.May 11Savannah (Georgia) Police Officer Kelvin AnsariSgt. Kelvin Ansari, who served in the US Army for 21 years prior to becoming an officer, was k gt. Kelvin Ansari, who served in the US Army for 21 years prior to becoming an officer, was k illed when shots broke out af ter he and other officers were approaching a vehicle suspected as part of a robbery investigation.May 5Biloxi (Mississippi) Police Officer Robert McKeithenfficer Robert McKeithen was gu fficer Robert McKeithen was gu nned down in a parking lot ou tside police headquarters. The 24-year veteran of the Biloxi Police Department received a medal of valor for saving four children in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.May 4Mooresville (North Carolina) Police Officer Jordan Harris SheldonOfficer Jordan Sheldon, a K-9 officer, was s fficer Jordan Sheldon, a K-9 officer, was s hot during a routine traffic stop an d died at a nearby hospital. The suspect fled, but police traced him to his apartment, where they found him dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.April 13Cowlitz County (Washington) Deputy Sheriff Justin DeRosierDeputy Justin DeRosier was responding to a disabled vehicle when he was shot. He was taken to a hospital in Vancouver, Washington, where he died. DeRosier left behind a wife and a 6-month-old daughter. It was the first officer death in the 165-year-old history of the Cowlitz County Sheriff's Office.March 24El Paso County (Texas) Deputy Sheriff Peter HerreraDeputy Peter Herrera was shot after pulling over a vehicle during a traffic stop. Officials said the suspect fired his gun 15 times before he and his girlfriend fled on foot and were captured in a nearby shed, according to CNN affiliate KVIA.March 19Kittitas County (Washington) Deputy Sheriff Ryan ThompsonDeputy Ryan Thompson was responding to a complaint about a motorist and attempted to stop the vehicle. But the driver wouldn't stop, and officers took off after him. After he eventually pulled over, the motorist got out of the car and opened fire on the officers. Both Thompson and the driver were killed in the ensuing shootout.March 7McHenry County (Illinois) Deputy Sheriff Jacob KeltnerDeputy Jacob Keltner was working with members of the US Marshals Service to serve an arrest warrant on a man staying at a hotel. The suspect shot at the officers with a rifle from inside a hotel room, officials said, before jumping out of a window and again opening fire on the officers. Kelter was struck and later succumbed to his gunshot wounds at a nearby hospital, the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund reportsMarch 5Midland (Texas) Police Officer Nathan HeidelbergOfficer Nathan Heidelberg and other officers were responding to a burglar alarm at a residence when the homeowner shot him, believing that the officers were the burglars, CNN affiliate KOSA reported . The man who shot him was arrested and charged with manslaughter.February 26Sullivan County (Tennessee) Sheriff's Sgt. Steve HinkleSgt. Steve Hinkle was with deputies walking up to a house for a welfare check when a man inside opened fire, officials say. Hinkle was hit and died three days later from the wounds he sustained, CNN affiliate WJHL reported. He had previously worked as a school resource office at a local high school.February 16Puerto Rico Police Agent Alfred Zanyet-PẽrezAgent Alfred Zanyet-Pẽrez was shot and killed during an undercover operation in Puerto Rico. He was at a store and was gunned down in a drive-by shooting.February 6Milwaukee Police Officer Matthew RittnerOfficer Matthew Rittner was shot and killed as he carried out a search warrant for drug and gun sales on Milwaukee's south side. The father of one was a 17-year law enforcement veteran.February 4Virginia State Trooper Lucas B. DowellTrooper Lucas Dowell was killed in a shootout while carrying out a drug-related search warrant just outside Farmville, Virginia. A bridge in the state was renamed to honor him in July.February 2Clermont County (Ohio) Det. Bill BrewerDetective Bill Brewer was shot and killed during a 12-hour standoff with a suicidal man who had barricaded himself in an apartment outside Cincinnati. His killer was sentenced to life in prison in September.January 20Mobile (Alabama) Police Officer Sean TuderOfficer Sean Tuder was shot and killed at a hotel as he led a team of officers searching for a 19-year-old suspect accused in a series of car break-ins. Police have charged his suspected killer with capital murder.January 13Birmingham (Alabama) Police Sgt. Wytasha CarterSgt. Wytasha Carter was shot and killed outside a bar and another officer was critically wounded as they responded to a report about car break-ins. The father of two had also served in the US Air Force.January 10Davis (California) Police Officer Natalie CoronaOfficer Natalie Corona was shot and killed after responding to a three-vehicle crash in the city of Davis. The 22-year-old was a "rising star" in the department, Davis police Chief Darren Pytel said.January 5Provo (Utah) Police Officer Joseph Shinners