If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Go ahead, pass Go, collect $200. Monopoly has leaped off the board and is now a fully immersive, real-world attraction .Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. SyriaRomney: This is being portrayed as a victory. It's not.Romney: This is being portrayed as a victory. It's not. 01:38Romney: This is being portrayed as a victory. It's not.2. PoliticsActing White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney stunned Washington when he brashly admitted that the Trump administration froze nearly $400 million in military aid to Ukraine in part to pressure that country to investigate Trump's political rivals. This quid pro quo is at the heart of the impeachment inquiry that the Democrats are running, so Mulvaney's confirmation of it was shocking.And that wasn't the only news Mulvaney broke during his news briefing. He also announced that the 2020 G7 summit will be held at Trump National in Doral, Florida . Mulvaney said Doral was "far and away the best physical facility for this meeting." But critics immediately pounced, saying hosting the event at Doral is a conflict of interest because the President would financially profit from it. Taken together, all the day's events show that the guardrails are off the Trump presidency , CNN political analyst Stephen Collinson says.JUST WATCHED Mulvaney confesses to quid pro quo: Get over it Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mulvaney confesses to quid pro quo: Get over it 02:083. BrexitThe United Kingdom and the European Union strike a deal on Brexit, but it faces long odds of getting through Britain's Parliament. Haven't we seen this movie before? There was an " air of euphoria " in Brussels yesterday as a new deal was announced to get the UK out of the EU by the end of the month. But that euphoria may dissipate in London this weekend, when British lawmakers are expected to vote on it . Former Prime Minister Theresa May failed three times to get similar deals approved, and the agreement current Prime Minister Boris Johnson helped broker faces an uphill battle. Some lawmakers say they won't vote for it because the issue of the Irish border remains a big sticking point for them.JUST WATCHED Boris Johnson to MPs: Come together and get Brexit done Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boris Johnson to MPs: Come together and get Brexit done 01:204. General Motors strikeJUST WATCHED Tentative deal reached in monthlong GM strike Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tentative deal reached in monthlong GM strike 01:165. WeatherA storm known as a bomb cyclone "parked" itself over New England and wreaked havoc yesterday, knocking out power and disrupting travel in the region. Thousands of customers from New York to Maine are still without electricity this morning, and hundreds of flights have been canceled at area airports. Heavy rain and tropical-storm-force wind gusts were the order of the day. Meanwhile, down in the Gulf of Mexico, tropical storm warnings are being issued as a disorganized area of storms is expected to develop into a tropical or subtropical storm later today.JUST WATCHED Tropical system to strengthen on approach to Florida Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tropical system to strengthen on approach to Florida 01:39BREAKFAST BROWSEWeather wondersMirror, mirrorBeauty may be in the eye of the beholder, but according to science at least, model Bella Hadid is the world's most beautiful woman.JUST WATCHED This tool is changing the game for supermodels Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This tool is changing the game for supermodels 03:22Helping handWhat is it?This blob at the Paris zoo has 720 sexes and can heal itself if it's cut in two. So, obviously it's a threat to all mankindJUST WATCHED Meet the 'blob', neither plant, animal or fungus Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meet the 'blob', neither plant, animal or fungus 00:55TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeThe judges for which literary award broke the rules this week, awarding two authors instead of one?A. Booker PrizeB. National Book AwardC. Pulitzer PrizeD. Newbery MedalPlay " Total Recall ," CNN's weekly news quiz, to see if your answer is correct.TODAY'S QUOTE"So I guess I'm the Meryl Streep of generals."James Mattis, Former Defense Secretary laughing off President Trump's recent criticism of him. Trump, who once called Oscar winner Meryl Streep an "overrated actress," called Mattis "the world's most overrated general."JUST WATCHED James Mattis mocks Trump's bone spurs Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH James Mattis mocks Trump's bone spurs 01:20TODAY'S NUMBER6%How much China's gross domestic product grew during the latest quarter . That's the weakest quarterly growth the country has seen in almost 30 years and a clear sign that China is feeling pain from the trade war with the US.JUST WATCHED Reuters: Tesla to begin production in China Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Reuters: Tesla to begin production in China 01:28AND FINALLYHello, hello, hello