If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Congrats to the Nats! After years of postseason disappointments, the Washington Nationals swept the St. Louis Cardinals and are headed to their first World SeriesHere's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Democratic debateElizabeth Warren is the new front-runner in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination, so she took on all of the attacks from her rivals during last's night debate. The moderates on stage really got after her, especially Pete Buttigieg, who pressed her on how she would pay for her Medicare for All plans and what it would mean for private insurance. He also ripped her for not answering a yes-or-no question on raising taxes on the middle class. Warren pushed back on all of them, saying Democrats can only win next year if they "dream big and fight hard," and not "quit before we get started."Impeach, yes, candidates say. But don't divide us moreImpeach, yes, candidates say. But don't divide us more 02:36Impeach, yes, candidates say. But don't divide us more2. SyriaTurkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said he's not worried about US sanctions and won't heed US demands for a ceasefire as Turkey's military offensive into northern Syria continues. Erdogan's comments come as Vice President Mike Pence and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo led a delegation to Turkey to try to negotiate a deal to end the miliary operation. Meanwhile, Russian military police units are on patrol in northern Syria , keeping Turkish troops away from Syrian forces and their new Kurdish allies.As Russia flexes its muscle in the Middle East, Russian President Vladimir Putin is on something of a victory lap in the region, CNN's Matthew Chance writes. What doesn't need to be lost in all of this is the severe toll all this chaos is taking on civilians in northern Syria. Dozens of people have already been killed in the fighting, and hundreds of thousands are trying to escape the violence as colder weather sets in. Here's how you can help refugees in Syria.JUST WATCHED Kurds strike deal with Syrian government Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kurds strike deal with Syrian government 03:033. Impeachment inquiryJUST WATCHED Giuliani, Trump WH defy congressional subpoenas in impeachment inquiry Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Giuliani, Trump WH defy congressional subpoenas in impeachment inquiry 02:394. Fort Worth shootingAaron Dean -- the former Forth Worth, Texas, police officer who shot and killed Atatiana Jefferson during a welfare check -- isn't cooperating in the investigation . Dean has refused to be interviewed by detectives and declined to provide a written statement. New details about the shooting were revealed yesterday as Dean's arrest warrant was released. Jefferson's nephew, with whom she was playing video games when she was shot, told investigators his aunt pulled out her handgun from her purse when she heard noises outside. She was pointing the gun at the window when she was shot by Dean, who was in Jefferson's backyard and had not announced that he was a police officer. Interim Police Chief Ed Kraus, who apologized for the shooting, said it made sense that she would have a gun if she felt threatened.JUST WATCHED Fort Worth residents tell leaders 'we don't feel safe' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fort Worth residents tell leaders 'we don't feel safe' 01:495. WeatherLast week, a nor'easter ripped up New England beaches. Another storm is forming this week, and it could be a lot worse. Forecasters think this latest nor'easter could strengthen so rapidly it could turn into a "bomb cyclone," which generally is marked by a pressure drop of 24 millibars (a unit of pressure) within 24 hours. This storm is also expected to stay onshore more than last week's storm. So folks from New York City up to Portland, Maine, can expect tropical storm-force winds and up to 3 inches of rain from now through the end of the week. Meanwhile, in Japan, the death toll from Typhoon Hagibis climbed to 74.JUST WATCHED Parts of the Northeast bracing for another storm Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Parts of the Northeast bracing for another storm 01:42BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.A whole new worldJUST WATCHED Fortnite returns after two-day blackout Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fortnite returns after two-day blackout 01:15Did it for the 'gramThere's been a "Friends" reunion -- at least on social media. Jennifer Aniston reunited with her famous co-stars to celebrate her first day on Instagram.He's telling the toothA first-grader in Wisconsin was devastated when he lost the tooth he was going to give to the tooth fairy. Thankfully his principal totally vouched for himFashion makeoverWhen US astronauts return to the moon in a few years, they'll be rocking some seriously upgraded spacesuits that will protect them from radiation and temperature extremes.JUST WATCHED See NASA's new spacesuits for the moon and beyond Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See NASA's new spacesuits for the moon and beyond 01:07'A Barbie like me'Meet the 18-year-old who has been collecting hundreds of Barbies with prosthetic legs for kids just like her.Chloe Newman donated Barbies with prosthetic legs to a children's hospital.QUOTE OF THE DAY"That's the last time I use that calculator."Oklahoma District Judge Thad Balkman, after he realized he miscalculated how much Johnson & Johnson would pay for the state's opioid crisisDistrict Court Judge Thad BalkmanAND FINALLY ...Look. At. Me!