If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Today is Columbus Day, though an increasing number of cities and states are updating the observance to Indigenous People's Day.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Syria2. Trump videoA disturbing video of a fake President Donald Trump shooting, assaulting and stabbing his critics and the media was played at a conference held by a pro-Trump group at his Miami resort last week, according to footage obtained by The New York Times. The video was played at Trump's National Doral Miami during an American Priority conference, and contained several internet memes including an image of Donald Trump's head superimposed on the body of someone shooting up the "Church of Fake News. The "church" was depicted as a series of Trump critics and news organizations. The video also featured a Trump 2020 reelected logo. A spokesman for Trump's campaign claims he didn't see the video, but said the campaign does not condone violence. The event's organizer says the matter is under review. Several media organizations, including CNN and The White House Correspondents' Association, have called on the President to personally denounce the video.JUST WATCHED NYT: Violent video depicts Trump shooting media and critics Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NYT: Violent video depicts Trump shooting media and critics 01:193. Fort Worth shootingA black woman was shot and killed in her own home by a police officer this weekend, and the community wants answers. Atatiana Koquice Jefferson, 28, was killed Saturday morning after a neighbor called a non-emergency number to report the woman's front door was open. The officers were searching near the perimeter of Jefferson's home when they saw a person standing inside near a window and one of them opened fire, killing her. The incident has ignited a new flare of pain and outrage regarding the ongoing problem of police killings of black individuals. The Fort Worth Police Department released heavily-edited body cam footage a few hours after the incident, and the officer who shot Jefferson will be interviewed by the FWPD's Major Case Unit today. However, neighbors and activists have called for an independent investigation , saying the unit shouldn't be investigating the actions of their own officers.JUST WATCHED Police release censored footage of Fort Worth shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police release censored footage of Fort Worth shooting 02:134. Typhoon HagibisJUST WATCHED How deadly Typhoon Hagibis devastated Japan Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How deadly Typhoon Hagibis devastated Japan 01:295. ImpeachmentStrap in for another roller coaster ride of impeachment proceedings as lawmakers return to Capitol Hill this week. Today, the President's former top Russia adviser Fiona Hill is expected to be interviewed by three House panels as part of the Democrats' impeachment probe. Top Trump administration officials, including the vice president and Energy Department secretary, also face deadlines this week to turn over documents related to the Ukraine investigation. Meanwhile, President Trump threatened this weekend to sue Rep. Adam Schiff and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi over his impeachment predicament. He also suggested offhand that he might impeach them. (Constitutionally speaking, members of Congress cannot be impeached.)JUST WATCHED Is Pelosi's impeachment strategy too narrow? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is Pelosi's impeachment strategy too narrow? 04:27THIS JUST IN...Nobel Prize winnerThe Nobel Prize in economics was awarded to Abhijit Banerjee, Esther Duflo and Michael Kremer for their work in finding ways to alleviate global poverty.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.It was an amazing weekend for women in sportsSimone Biles, Coco Gauff and Brigid Kosgei smashed records in gymnastics, tennis and marathon running , respectively. What did YOU do this weekend?'Saturday Night Live' slays with 'Joker' parody featuring gritty 'Sesame Street' parodyFortnite has been down for hours and people are wondering if it's a stunt, a planned outage or something moreSo if your nephews and nieces have been grumpy for some reason , this is why.JUST WATCHED Here's how he makes $500,000 per month playing video games Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's how he makes $500,000 per month playing video games 01:55Inside the world of ARMY, the rabid fan base of Korean pop group BTSHAPPENING LATERA fancy government affairToday, the UK will observe the ceremonial State Opening of Parliament, which is an event that brings together all of the branches of government as well as the monarchy. There will be pomp, circumstance, carriages, frippery and most importantly, a speech by Queen Elizabeth II herself.NUMBER OF THE DAY$40 billionIran says it has discovered a new natural gas reserve with the capacity to produce nearly 400 million barrels of gas condensate. How much money could that vast amount of gas generate? That big, red number right up there.TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Much needed drought relief for the Southeast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Much needed drought relief for the Southeast 01:43QUOTE OF THE DAY"I'm the reason there is impeachment going on."Joe Biden, sounding off , sounding off on the impeachment process during a forum in Iowa on Sunday. In related news, Hunter Biden announced he will be stepping down from his board role in the management company of a private equity fund backed by Chinese state-owned entities and will not work for foreign-owned firms if his father is elected.AND FINALLY ...A gourd time