If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Today, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson is trying to get his Brexit withdrawal bill through Parliament. Hold your breath and follow CNN's live updates for the latest .Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Impeachment inquiryDemocratic leaders say they want to conduct a thorough investigation, but prolonging the probe will continue to consume Washington and could push the whole thing into the presidential election year. That could create serious complications and risks for everyone involved. The public patience for Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other top Dems could run dry, or, on the Republican side, more attention to Trump's alleged dealings with Ukraine could turn public favor against him.Sources say impeachment inquiry may take longer than Dems expectedSources say impeachment inquiry may take longer than Dems expected 02:50Sources say impeachment inquiry may take longer than Dems expected2. FacebookFacebook's leadership is trying to shore up the platform's integrity before the 2020 election. Yesterday, the company announced it is taking new steps to clearly identify state-run media for users and to better protect the accounts of political candidates to prevent the platform from being used for future election meddling. However, it appears the meddling attempts have already started . Facebook also revealed that a host of Russian troll profiles have been building a network of accounts on Instagram designed to look like groups in swing states (Instagram is owned by Facebook). Facebook has made several attempts to crack down on foreign disinformation on its platforms since the 2016 election, including hiring former intelligence officials to root out campaigns like those run from Russia.JUST WATCHED Facebook says Russian trolls are back for 2020 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Facebook says Russian trolls are back for 2020 01:423. Canada and IsraelHere is a tale of two minority governments trying to get their executive ducks in a row. Yesterday, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's Liberal Party won Canada's general election , assuring him a second term. However, the party didn't secure a majority, which will present challenges as it comes back to power. In Israel, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has tried and failed, for the second time this year, to form a government. The country's general elections in April and September failed to produce a clear path to victory for Netanyahu or his main political rival, Benny Gantz. Now that the second try has failed, Netanyahu is politically vulnerable, and Gantz could step in and form a government. There's also a growing possibility of a third general election within a year.JUST WATCHED Trudeau's party projected to win general elections Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trudeau's party projected to win general elections 01:314. Lebanon protestsLebanon's government has made a series of concessions after hundreds of thousands of people gathered over the weekend to protest the country's deteriorating economy. Prime Minister Saad Hariri announced the reforms, which include slashing officials' salaries and scrapping austerity measures. A 2020 budget was passed as well, which means billions of dollars in pledged international donations could be freed up. Oh, and the country's banks are going to get slapped with larger taxes. "To the protesters I say these may not satisfy your demands, but they satisfy mine," Hariri said in a speech. "I'm not asking you to stop protesting. It's a decision for you to make."JUST WATCHED Thousands in Lebanon protests march against corruption Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Thousands in Lebanon protests march against corruption 02:285. Opioid lawsuitFour pharmaceutical companies reached a $260 million settlement yesterday, just hours before the first federal trial of the opioid epidemic was set to begin. McKesson Corp., Cardinal Health Inc., AmerisourceBergen Corp. and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. settled with the two plaintiffs, Summit and Cuyahoga counties in Ohio. The case was supposed to be the first federal multidistrict litigation trial (kind of like a class-action lawsuit) covering pharmaceutical companies' role in the ongoing opioid crisis. But the legal battle is far from over: Thousands more communities are lined up awaiting trials similar to this one. Both Ohio counties have said the settlement awards will go toward treatment programs and first responder support.JUST WATCHED Why are opioids so addictive? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why are opioids so addictive? 00:55HAPPENING LATERSyria ceasefire endsJUST WATCHED Nick Paton Walsh: ISIS isn't done. No one is really going home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Nick Paton Walsh: ISIS isn't done. No one is really going home 02:17BREAKFAST BROWSEThe first 'Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker' trailer is hereJUST WATCHED 'The Rise of Skywalker' trailer sets up epic fight Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'The Rise of Skywalker' trailer sets up epic fight 01:03Researchers grew meat in a lab from cow and rabbit cellsCVS will test drone delivery for medsNow your aspirin is arriving quickly -- and by airJUST WATCHED Watch first-ever drone delivery of organ for transplant Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch first-ever drone delivery of organ for transplant 01:48The Antarctic ozone hole is unusually small this yearOzone holes are bad, so is this ... GOOD climate news? Unfortunately, no: Scientists say it's because of specific weather patterns , not because Earth is magically repairing itself.THIS JUST IN ...Japan's new emperorJUST WATCHED Japan's new emperor formally takes the throne Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Japan's new emperor formally takes the throne 02:11TODAY'S QUOTE"C'est moi."Sen. Mitt Romney, who confirmed he has been using a secret Twitter account to monitor political discussions and anonymously defend himself. To the internet's amusement, Romney's nom de tweet was "Pierre Delecto."JUST WATCHED Internet goes wild over Mitt Romney's fake Twitter name Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Internet goes wild over Mitt Romney's fake Twitter name 02:08TODAY'S NUMBER50,000 to 70,000The number of smokers who successfully used vaping to quit smoking in the UK in 2017, according to a study. However, the authors noted different policies and cultures around e-cigarettes mean those results might not be replicated elsewhere.JUST WATCHED E-cigs market to teens using big tobacco tactics Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH E-cigs market to teens using big tobacco tactics 06:09TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Severe Storms End in the East as a New System Approaches Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe Storms End in the East as a New System Approaches 01:39AND FINALLYWhere did they even get those masks?!