If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Check out the ski slope in Copenhagen that's built atop a power plant .Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. TurkeyTurkey launched its military offensive into northeastern Syria, hammering Kurdish forces with airstrikes and artillery fire. Reports on the ground paint a chaotic scene, with roads gridlocked with people trying to flee to safety. There are also reports of civilian causalities, as some worry that this could be the start of a "humanitarian catastrophe."The Kurdish forces have dropped their counter-ISIS operations to focus on the Turkish offensive, raising fears that all this could lead to a resurgence of ISIS. US officials have also expressed concern that thousands of ISIS fighters may escape from prisons in Syria. Asked about that, President Trump essentially shrugged it off , saying it's not America's problem, since the fighters would be "escaping to Europe." Click here to keep up with the latest on the offensive.2. Impeachment inquiryHouse Democrats are prepping a wave of subpoenas after the Trump administration said it would ignore them. Democrats are now threatening to subpoena associates of Rudy Giuliani and State Department officials. That would include former US Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch. She's set for an interview Friday, but she may not appear because she's still a State Department employee.JUST WATCHED Biden calls for Trump impeachment for first time Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Biden calls for Trump impeachment for first time 02:403. German synagogue attackA gunman's attack in the eastern German town of Halle was horrifying. But it could have been a lot worse if he'd been able to break down a synagogue's doors . The gunman, who was arrested, killed two people: one right outside the synagogue and one at a nearby shop. But he couldn't get through the doors of the synagogue, and that likely spared the lives of the 70 to 80 people inside for Yom Kippur, the holiest day on the Jewish calendar. The attack was apparently livestreamed on Twitch , a platform owned by Amazon, and bore a striking similarity to the live video of the Christchurch attack in March in New Zealand.JUST WATCHED 2 people killed in shooting near synagogue in Germany Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2 people killed in shooting near synagogue in Germany 01:244. California power outagesLong days of darkness continue for almost 800,000 PG&E customers in Northern California, after the utility giant cut off power in several counties to reduce the risk of setting off wildfires with electrical lines. The outages could last as long as a week for some. A forecast of strong winds is posing a major fire danger, but the winds are expected to subside tomorrow. Then PG&E crews will examine their system for damage and start turning the power back on.JUST WATCHED Power outages begin in California to prevent wildfires Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Power outages begin in California to prevent wildfires 00:525. WeatherIt's going to be a wet and windy end of the workweek and weekend on the East Coast, as a fall nor'easter -- with wind gusts approaching tropical-storm-force -- slams an area stretching from Delaware to Massachusetts. Meanwhile in the north-central US, temperatures are expected to plummet as much as 50 degrees in 24 hours ahead of an intense and potentially historic fall snowstorm. Temps in Denver were in the 80s yesterday, but they'll be below freezing today. Snow is expected in Colorado, the Dakotas, Wyoming, Montana and parts of Idaho, and it could shatter records for this time of the year.JUST WATCHED Storms impacting millions of Americans from coast to coast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Storms impacting millions of Americans from coast to coast 01:53BREAKFAST BROWSEIt's gotta be a cursePricey purchaseIf you want to own that fuzzy, olive-green cardigan that the late Kurt Cobain wore on "MTV Unplugged," be prepared to cough up as much as $300,000Look what we can doHumans can't regrow amputated limbs like salamanders can, but we apparently can regrow damaged cartilage , a new study says.Bravery in bronzeWant to see a statue of the first African-American fighter pilot ? Take a trip down to Georgia.TODAY'S QUOTE"I just couldn't be a sellout."Rihanna, telling Vogue magazine she Singer, telling Vogue magazine she turned down a chance to perform in the Super Bowl halftime show as a sign of solidarity with exiled NFL QB Colin KaepernickJUST WATCHED Watch Rihanna drink Seth Meyers under the table Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch Rihanna drink Seth Meyers under the table 01:18HAPPENING LATERCandidates forumCuba Gooding Jr.'s trial beginsThe Oscar-winning actor, accused of groping a woman in a Manhattan bar, faces two misdemeanor charges. He denies the allegations.JUST WATCHED Video appears to show alleged Cuba Gooding Jr. incident Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video appears to show alleged Cuba Gooding Jr. incident 02:28AND FINALLYGrab an apron