(CNN) Is no breakfast beverage safe anymore? There's a new warning out for all you hot tea drinkers. And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Stock marketGlobal markets tumbled this morning , following the stunning 1,175-point drop of the Dow. That was its worst point drop on record for one day. The 4.6% decline was the stock market's worst day since August 2011 and wiped out all this year's gains. It also erased a quarter of the "Trump rally." It's unclear what will happen today: US futures were down overnight, then started to recover.So, what should you do? Probably nothing. It's best to play the long game with stocks, and the market had been so hot that it had to cool down eventually.2. Dem memo & shutdownThat Democratic memo rebutting GOP allegations of FBI abuses got the OK from the House Intelligence Committee to be released. Now, it heads to President Trump for review. Will he release it? The consensus seems to be that he will -- but with a lot of redactions. Dems worry Trump will block out not just sensitive stuff but also things that are politically inconvenient for the GOP.JUST WATCHED Will Democratic memo ever be released? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Will Democratic memo ever be released? 01:29Meanwhile, House Republicans plan a vote today on yet another short-term spending bill to keep the government open. The government shuts down Thursday unless a spending deal is reached. The bill, which would keep the lights on through March 23, would also fund the military for a full year. That'd pass the House, but it'd be DOA in the Senate. Combine that with lingering uncertainty over a DACA deal, and, well, who knows how this will play out.JUST WATCHED Durbin: 'I don't see a shutdown coming' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Durbin: 'I don't see a shutdown coming' 01:053. SyriaJUST WATCHED Russian airstrikes hit rebel-controlled Idlib Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Russian airstrikes hit rebel-controlled Idlib 01:104. South AfricaSouth African President Jacob Zuma is in a fight. His party, the African National Congress, may try to oust him tomorrow . Senior members of the party tried to get him to resign over the weekend , but he refused. His supporters clashed with party activists outside the ANC headquarters in Johannesburg. So, why is he in trouble? There are many reasons, with the main one being years of corruption allegations against him.JUST WATCHED South Africa's ANC party to vote on new leader (December 2017) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH South Africa's ANC party to vote on new leader (December 2017) 02:205. Winter OlympicsJUST WATCHED What to know about the 2018 Winter Olympics Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What to know about the 2018 Winter Olympics 06:30BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.RIP, Frasier's dadIf "Frasier" was the perfect sitcom (it was), then John Mahoney was perfectly cast as the cranky but loveable Martin Crane . He died at age 77.JUST WATCHED 'Frasier' actor John Mahoney dies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Frasier' actor John Mahoney dies 00:51Netflash"The Cloverfield Paradox" made a big splash during the Super Bowl, then critically crashed and burned when it popped up hours later on Netflix.JUST WATCHED Netflix airs surprise trailer during Super Bowl Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Netflix airs surprise trailer during Super Bowl 00:48Love him like a rockIf you've never seen Paul Simon live, you'd better hurry. The music legend's next tour will be his last'Got a Christmas tree fire'Philadelphia celebrated the Eagles' epic Super Bowl win with grace and decorum. Don't believe us? Just listen to the police scanner callsJUST WATCHED Eagles beat Patriots for first Super Bowl win Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Eagles beat Patriots for first Super Bowl win 01:41NUMBER OF THE DAY103 millionQUOTE OF THE DAYIt "will either be a great rocket launch or the best fireworks display they've ever seen."Elon Musk, expressing great confidence in today's test launch of The Falcon Heavy , which may be the world's most powerful operational rocketJUST WATCHED SpaceX set to launch Falcon Heavy rocket Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH SpaceX set to launch Falcon Heavy rocket 02:18AND FINALLY ...Watch and learn