(CNN) Good Monday morning. Congress is back in session today, and here are 5 things it could do on gun reform . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)Florida high school shootingStudents at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School return to class this week, as the gun debate ignited by the mass shooting there rages on. More than a dozen businesses backed away from the NRA over its response to the shooting. President Trump -- who says he'll support stricter background checks and age requirements for gun purchases -- plans to talk to the nation's governors about it today when they get together at the White House. There's growing pressure on Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel to resign after several of his deputies failed to engage shooter Nikolas Cruz during the massacre. And everyone is dumbfounded at the stunning number of red flags about Cruz that were missed.SyriaThe bombing of Eastern Ghouta continues despite a new UN ceasefire OK'd over the weekend. Doctors in the besieged Damascus suburb say the ceasefire is just "ink on paper" that's done nothing to stop the barbaric deaths being inflicted upon the people there. And the violence is about to get worse, as there are now reports of ground attacks on Eastern Ghouta, one of the last rebel strongholds in the country. The Syrian regime claims it's targeting terrorists and will continue to do so despite the ceasefire.JUST WATCHED More airstrikes after U.N. vote on Syria Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH More airstrikes after U.N. vote on Syria 01:45PoliticsThe Democrats' (redacted) memo on alleged FBI abuses is finally out. (You can read it in full here ). It tries to undercut the previously released GOP memo on two main points. First, it says the FBI did let a court know of the Democratic ties to the infamous Trump dossier when the agency used it in asking for a warrant to conduct surveillance on Trump associate Carter Page. Second, the memo argues the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election didn't start with the dossier; it had already been going on for weeks. President Trump dismissed the Dems' memo as a "politically driven document."JUST WATCHED Schiff says "FBI acted appropriately" on FISA Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Schiff says "FBI acted appropriately" on FISA 06:24ChinaWill the age of the emperors make a comeback in China? The question's coming up after the country's Communist Party proposed dumping presidential term limits so that President Xi Jinping can serve a third term -- and perhaps run the country indefinitely. But many observers see the move as a sign of weakness , as Xi is apparently afraid of the rise of a political rival. There's fear too that this could push the world's most populous country into a period of extreme instablity.JUST WATCHED China to drop presidential term limits Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China to drop presidential term limits 01:37Winter OlympicsThe Games are over in PyeongChang, but the memories will last forever. The two and a half weeks of figure skating, skiing, ice hockey and curling ended with a spectacular closing ceremony and calls for peace. Athletes from North and South Korea marched together again, and the South wants the US and the North to start talking.JUST WATCHED Olympic Winter Games 2022: Is China ready? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Olympic Winter Games 2022: Is China ready? 02:17BREAKFAST BROWSE'The Simpsons' do it again!JUST WATCHED Trump presidency predicted by 'The Simpsons' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump presidency predicted by 'The Simpsons' 00:53Her-storyWhat did Michelle Obama really think about the highs and lows of her husband's presidency? Wonder no more. Her memoir's out in November.Former President Barack Obama, looks at former first lady Michelle Obama's official portrait at the Smithsonian's National Portrait Gallery.So long, SrideviShe may not have been a household name in the US, but to many around the world Bollywood actress Sridevi was everything. Her death at 54 has shocked and saddened her fans.Indian Bollywood actress Sridevi Kapoor attends the Umang Mumbai Police Show 2018 in Mumbai on January 13.Spoiler alertOnce again, a major character's death has fans tweeting up a storm about "The Walking Dead."JUST WATCHED 'The Walking Dead': Who lives and dies? (2014) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'The Walking Dead': Who lives and dies? (2014) 01:49What happens in Vegas ...If it's time to leave Las Vegas, make sure you dump your weed at the airport before grabbing your flight home.NUMBER OF THE DAY$700 millionHow much "Black Panther" has made worldwide after its second weekend of releaseAND FINALLYJust slipped out my mouth