(CNN) Happy Monday. We'll be spending the morning poring through the thousands of emails you sent with your suggestions on our Sunday experiment. But first, here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. PoliticsImmigration takes center stage in the Senate starting today when Majority Leader Mitch McConnell opens up floor debate on the topic. Several amendments will be considered, including President Trump's proposal for a pathway to citizenship for 1.8 million immigrants in exchange for $25 billion for a border wall and other security enhancements.Meanwhile, the President unveils that much-talked about infrastructure plan today. The proposal's general outline calls for a $200 billion federal investment in the nation's roads, bridges, waterways and railroads. The White House hopes the money will trigger state and local governments to spend a total of $1.5 trillion on improvements.2. CrashesA Russian plane crashed on takeoff near Moscow over the weekend, killing all 71 people. The crew of the Saratov Airlines flight didn't report any problems before it crashed in snowy terrain. The plane's flight recorders have been recovered.Meanwhile, three people died when a helicopter touring the Grand Canyon crashed in Arizona. Three survivors and the pilot were later rescued in an operation that was hampered by the windy and rugged conditions in the canyon.JUST WATCHED Plane's final moments captured on camera Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Plane's final moments captured on camera 01:253. Puerto Rico blackoutOfficials are working to restore power to northern parts of the island, including the capital of San Juan, after an explosion and fire at a power substation caused a blackout. The fire was sparked by a mechanical failure and was quickly put out. If you remember, Hurricane Maria plunged almost all of Puerto Rico into darkness when it hit last fall. Some 450,000 are still lacking power because of it.JUST WATCHED The drive that shows how badly Puerto Rico was hit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The drive that shows how badly Puerto Rico was hit 01:044. Oxfam sex scandalThe aid organizaion Oxfam could lose public funding over allegations its staff hired prostitutes in Haiti while they were working after the 2010 earthquake. Oxfam aid workers, including the country director, are accused of turning a rented villa into a makeshift brothel. Oxfam says it will strengthen its vetting of its staff and create a whistleblower hotline to make sure such things don't happen again.JUST WATCHED Oxfam hit with pay-for-sex claims in Haiti Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Oxfam hit with pay-for-sex claims in Haiti 00:525. AetnaAetna is being investigated by California's insurance commissioner after one of its former medical director made a shocking admission under oath in a deposition: he never looked at patient records when deciding whether to OK or deny care. CNN showed California Insurance Commissioner Dave Jones a transcript of the testimony, and he wants to know if this is a widespread practice at Aetna.JUST WATCHED Aetna investigated after stunning admission Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Aetna investigated after stunning admission 02:54WINTER OLYMPICSOver the weekend, teenager Red Gerard claimed the USA's first gold as he produced the performance of his life in the snowboard slopestyle competition.-- OAR's Evgenia Medvedeva set a new world record in the women's figure skating short program.-- Canadian Eric Radford became the first openly gay man in Winter Olympics history to earn a gold medal with Team Canada's figure skating win.Semen Elistratov became the first Olympic Athlete from Russia (OAR) to medal. But then Olympic officials had to defend their decision to let him compete after it emerged -- Russia'sbecame the first Olympic Athlete from Russia (OAR) to medal. But then Olympic officials had to defend their decision to let him compete after it emerged he served a doping suspension.Mirai Nagasu became --became the first American female figure skater to hit the triple axel during an Olympic event.Mirai NagasuHere's what's coming up:Mikaela Shiffrin. She'll be looking to claim her first gold of these Games in the women's giant slalom (which was put on hold after high winds forced the event to be postponed). -- This week, we'll get a glimpse of one of the most dominant athletes in winter sport and potentially the face of these games: USA'sShe'll be looking to claim her first gold of these Games in the women's giant slalom (which was put on hold after high winds forced the event to be postponed).-- After claiming a silver medal in the 5,000m on Saturday, Team Netherlands' Ireen Wust has the opportunity to become the most successful speed skater in Olympic history if she is able to claim a medal in the 1500m.-- Team USA are just two golds away from reaching a landmark 100 gold medals in Winter Olympics historyBREAKFAST BROWSEGrab your spotIf you want a peek at Prince Harry and Meghan Markle after the "I dos," the post-wedding processional route has been released.JUST WATCHED Royal couple announce wedding date Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Royal couple announce wedding date 02:22Sorry, ladiesIdris Elba popped the question to his girlfriend at a film screening -- and there's video. Watch it and weep.JUST WATCHED Watch Idris Elba pop the question Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch Idris Elba pop the question 00:52Extreme makeoverMonths after it was turned into a prison for prominent Saudis, the Ritz-Carlton in Riyadh is open to the us regular folk again.R.I.P. RegWhether you knew him as Normal, the political operative on "The Wire," or as Freddy, the barbecue man on "House of Cards," Reg E. Cathey's voice was something to hear. He died at age 59.JUST WATCHED 'House of Cards' actor Reg E. Cathey dies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'House of Cards' actor Reg E. Cathey dies 01:11AND FINALLYHey, Siri ...