(CNN) Crowds grew silent Wednesday evening as bells rang out 39 times in Atlanta and Memphis, Tennessee, to mark the age of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. at the time of his assassination.Cities across the United States honored King with ceremonies and performances, as well as reflections on what today's civil rights advocates can do to carry forward his legacy 50 years after his death.Speakers challenged listeners to push for justice and equality, as they expect King would have today.King's eldest son, Martin III, said that recent movements, including Black Lives Matter, #MeToo and the campaign against gun violence, led by students who survived a school shooting in Parkland, Florida, give him hope."I think that Dad and Mom would be very proud to see this group exists," he said of the youth activism.King's youngest child, Bernice, told CNN's Wolf Blitzer that her father would be making connections with these movements, ensuring they got what they needed in terms of planning and organizational strategy.Eleanor Holmes Norton, Washington's nonvoting delegate to Congress, said at a wreath-laying ceremony at his memorial near the National Mall that King would want people to focus on the "here and now."The most authentic way to honor my father is to commit to the work of creating a more peaceful, just, humane world. Let quotes coincide with conscious efforts to eradicate poverty, militarism and racism (privilege + power = oppressive policies + culture). #MLK50Forward #MLK pic.twitter.com/exUAp1E68q — Be A King (@BerniceKing) April 4, 2018Perhaps the grandest, most-sweeping memorial was in Memphis, where King was slain while standing on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel.speeches, videos, and singing and spoken-word performances -- was largely held in the courtyard of the motel, now home to the The daylong tribute there -- which featuredspeeches, videos, and singing and spoken-word performances -- was largely heldin the courtyard of the motel, now home to the National Civil Rights MuseumSome people at the event held signs reading, "I am a man." They were reminiscent of the signs carried in 1968 in that city by sanitation workers whose strike King had come to support.People in Memphis hold signs echoing the message of King's final protest mission.The Rev. Jesse Jackson -- one of only two surviving members of King's entourage on the day he was shot -- was among the speakers at the Memphis tribute.Here's a look at some of the events that took place to honor King's legacy:MemphisPhotos: Revisiting the Lorraine Motel 50 years after MLK's assassination Room 306 at Lorraine Motel is where Martin Luther King Jr. stayed the night before he was assassinated. A white wreath on the balcony marks the place where he was shot on April 4, 1968. Hide Caption 1 of 4 Photos: Revisiting the Lorraine Motel 50 years after MLK's assassination Rep. John Lewis, a leader in the civil rights movement, stands outside room 306 at the Lorraine Motel to mark the 50th anniversary of King's death."When he died, I think something died in all of us. Something died in America," Lewis says. "Each day, I think we must find a way to dream the dream that he dreamed. And build on what he left all of us." Hide Caption 2 of 4 Photos: Revisiting the Lorraine Motel 50 years after MLK's assassination Bipartisan members of Congress stand together at the Lorraine Motel to honor King. Hide Caption 3 of 4 Photos: Revisiting the Lorraine Motel 50 years after MLK's assassination Peek inside room 306 at the Lorraine Motel. King shared the room with a friend, Ralph Abernathy, the night before he died, and it has been kept the way the pair left it that day. Hide Caption 4 of 4A commemorative ceremony on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel included an interfaith liturgy, musical tributes, and a ceremonial changing of the wreath outside Room 306.The Rev. Michael Pfleger , a Catholic priest and activist against street violence on Chicago's South Side, told the crowd that King's "loyalty was to God, and his faith is what summoned him to his activism.""Dr. King was uncompromising in his commitment to eradicate war and racism and poverty, Pfleger said."Martin Luther King Jr. was uncompromising in his charge to subpoena the conscience of America, and demand that America stand before the seat of morality and face her hypocrisy and make good on the promises that she put down on paper," he added.Pfleger said King believed the church ought to be "dangerous, dangerous to evil, dangerous to injustice."The historic Clayborn Temple bell rings in Memphis, Tennessee.So, as King stood on a motel balcony, "evil and the forces of hate sought to stop him and shut him up only to find out that a bullet could silence his voice but not his message, nor the truth that lived in him," Pfleger said.The activist challenged the crowd to not just simply remember King and "relegate his life to some nostalgic or historic event, and then continue on with business as usual.""Because if we do, then we become the present day co-conspirators of his assassination."As he wrapped up his speech, the bell from the historic Clayborn Temple rang 39 times as part of the International Moment of Reflection. Then, a person in the crowd yelled, "Let freedom ring."When the bell stopped ringing, Pfleger and Jackson helped place a red and yellow wreath on the balcony.Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. was best known for his role in the civil rights movement and nonviolent protests. His life's work has been honored with a national holiday, schools and public buildings named after him, and a memorial on the National Mall in Washington. Take a look back at the late civil rights leader's defining years. Here, King speaks in Washington in 1968, the year he was assassinated. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King outlines boycott strategies to his advisers and organizers on January 27, 1956. Seated are the Rev. Ralph Abernathy, left, and Rosa Parks, center, who was the catalyst for the protest of bus riders. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King sits for a police mugshot after his arrest for directing a citywide boycott of segregated buses on February 24, 1956. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King stands in front of a bus at the end of the Montgomery bus boycott in Montgomery, Alabama, on December 26, 1956. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King speaks during the Prayer Pilgrimage near the Reflecting Pool in Washington on May 17, 1957. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Accompanied by his wife, Coretta Scott, King leaves Harlem Hospital after being stabbed near the heart on September 20, 1958. The near-fatal incident occurred when he was autographing copies of his book at a Harlem bookstore. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King delivers a sermon at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta in September 1960. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King, his wife and children, Yolanda, 5, and Martin Luther III, 3, play the piano together in their living room in Atlanta in 1960. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Moderator John McCaffery, left, segregationist editor James J. Kilpatrick and King debate segregation in New York on November 11, 1960. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King addresses a crowd of demonstrators outside the Lincoln Memorial during the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom in Washington on August 28, 1963. He delivered his famous "I Have a Dream" speech to more than 250,000 people. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. President Lyndon B. Johnson talks with King and civil rights leaders at the White House. On July 2, 1964, Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act into law. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King speaks with Malcolm X at a press conference on March 26, 1964. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. In 1963, King became the first African-American to be named Time magazine's Man of the Year. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King receives the Nobel Prize for Peace from the president of the Nobel Prize committee, Gunnar Jahn, in Oslo, Norway, on December 10, 1964. At the time he was the youngest person to win the prize. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King and his wife lead a black voting rights march from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama, on March 30, 1965. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King addresses civil rights marchers in Selma in April 1965. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Mississippi patrolmen shove King during the 220-mile "March Against Fear" from Memphis, Tennessee, to Jackson, Mississippi, on June 8, 1966. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King signs the Degree Roll at Newcastle University after receiving an honorary Doctor of Civil Law degree, in Newcastle, England, on November 14, 1967. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King and comedian Bob Hope, right, talk at John F. Kennedy International airport in New York on November 14, 1967. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Dr. Ralph Abernathy, Jesse Jackson and others stand on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee, on April 4, 1968, pointing in the direction of the gunshots that killed King, who lies at their feet. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. King's body is pictured on April 8, 1968, following his murder in Memphis. His wife, Coretta, led a silent march of 50,000 people through the streets of Memphis before making a televised speech at his funeral. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: The legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. The statue of King is pictured at a memorial in August 2013 in Washington, as thousands of people gathered to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, where King gave his "I Have a Dream" speech. Hide Caption 22 of 22Later on Wednesday, an " evening of storytelling " was held at the nearby Crosstown Concourse. Featuring civil rights leaders such as Jackson, it explored how past activism has fed into current movements.AtlantaMembers of the King family prepare to ring a bell 39 times in remembrance.In the city of his birth, the Martin Luther King Jr. Nonviolent Peace Prize was awarded to lawyers Benjamin Ferencz, for his work prosecuting German Nazi leaders at Nuremberg, and Bryan Stevenson, for his work to make mandatory life-without-parole sentences for all children 17 or younger unconstitutional.The year that changed the world For more coverage on the Martin Luther King, Jr. assassination and other history-making events, watch CNN's original series event "1968," coming Memorial Day weekend.Stevenson as someone who "shines like a beacon in the dark." Civil rights attorney Benjamin Crump introducedStevenson as someone who "shines like a beacon in the dark."The Ebenezer Baptist Church choir sang the National Anthem and "Lift Every Voice and Sing" before a game between the Washington Nationals and the host Atlanta Braves.Celebrating the life & legacy of Dr.Martin Luther King Jr with a moving performing by the Ebenezer Church Choir! https://t.co/CQgNxaoJvi — Atlanta Braves (@Braves) April 4, 2018Members of King's fraternity, Alpha Phi Alpha, attended a service at the historic Ebenezer and carried a wreath into the sanctuary. King joined the black fraternity in 1952 as a Boston University student."He took everything we are and wrapped a cloak of courage around it," Greg Gray, a fraternity leader in the Atlanta area, said during the service.Members of the family lay a wreath at the King Center in Atlanta.Bernice King addressed the church from the pulpit, describing her father's work."My father fought his entire life to ensure the inclusion of all," she said. "He fought for justice and equality and peace."She said her late mother, Coretta Scott King, "helped to shape and define that legacy so that the world would remember his teachings."Bernice King recited the closing of King's famous "Mountaintop" speech he gave in Memphis the night before he was killed. " Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord," she concluded.Elvera Louise Winston, left, and her daughter, Susan Michelle Winston, visit the King Center on Wednesday.At the King Center next door, Elvera Louise Winston and her daughter, Susan Michelle Winston, both of Lithonia, Georgia also praised King's widow. "Coretta kept the legacy going," said Elvera, 71.Elvera, who lived most of her life in the Chicago and Indiana area, said her parents raised her to know about King."He has been with me all my life," she said.Her mother was from Alabama, where blacks could not use water fountains during the Jim Crow era, Elvera recalled. "All the rules changed mostly because of Martin Luther King," she said.At the King Center, members of his family placed a wreath at the crypts of King and his widow, Coretta Scott King, and pulled the bell rope.Thousands gather Wednesday on the National Mall in Washington for a prayer rally.WashingtonEvents in the nation's capital started with a morning prayer vigil at the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial