(CNN) Students at 2,500 schools will walk out today to protest gun violence. Meet the teen behind the event . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. The Comey memosWe got a look at 15 pages of just-released memos that James Comey wrote documenting his conversations with President Trump in the early days of the administration. There's no bombshell, but the records -- released to Congress, then leaked -- make for some interesting reading . The ex-FBI director wrote about Trump's "serious reservations" about then-national security adviser Michael Flynn, his concerns about leaks and his recollection of Russian President Vladimir Putin telling him Russia had the "most beautiful hookers in the world." Um, OK.House Republicans pressured the Justice Department to release the memos because they wanted to show Comey is not credible. But CNN's Stephen Collinson says the GOP didn't do the President any favors . He called the memos stunning said they present a "deeply unflattering view of a President throwing his weight around in his first days in the White House -- that at the very least seems highly inappropriate." Trump tweeted about the memos , saying they showed there was "NO COLLUSION and NO OBSTRUCTION."Meantime, ex-NYC Mayor Rudy Giuliani is joining Trump's personal legal team . He'll deal with special counsel Robert Mueller, hoping to give "a little push" to close the Russia probe. Giuliani and Mueller have known each other for years.2. North KoreaA big stumbling block to getting nukes off the Korean Peninsula has been North Korea's insistence that the US pull its 28,000 troops out of South Korea. Now, it seems that hurdle is gone. South Korean President Moon Jae-in says the North is dropping that demand as a precondition for talks on denuclearization . Moon and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un meet next week for a historic summit, with Kim and President Trump planning to meet sometime in May or June.JUST WATCHED Truce Village: Where two Koreas face off Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Truce Village: Where two Koreas face off 01:093. Arizona teacher walkoutJUST WATCHED Father quits job after 15 years Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Father quits job after 15 years 02:074. YouTubeAds from more than 300 companies and organizations -- including tech giants, major retailers, newspapers and government agencies -- ran on YouTube channels that promote white nationalists, Nazis, pedophilia, conspiracy theories and North Korean propaganda, a CNN investigation has found . Many of the companies said they didn't know their ads were on these channels and are trying to figure out how they got there.This raises a couple of questions: Can YouTube safeguard ads and brands' integrity? And does relying on an automated system mean advertisers will always be at risk for such ad placements? YouTube says it will make "significant changes."JUST WATCHED Meet the CEOs who decide what you see online Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meet the CEOs who decide what you see online 11:065. BerlinIf you're in central Berlin this morning, you might have some trouble getting around. That's because authorities will attempt to dispose of an unexploded World War II-era bomb found during construction work near the city's central train station. Buildings will be evacuated, and bus and train routes will be affected as police work to defuse the 1,100-pound bomb. The discovery of bombs from World War II is not uncommon in Germany.JUST WATCHED Massive WWII bomb successfully deactivated in 2017 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Massive WWII bomb successfully deactivated in 2017 00:48TODAY'S NUMBER$5,000JUST WATCHED Southwest hero: I felt a calling to help Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Southwest hero: I felt a calling to help 01:29TODAY'S QUOTE"The phases of healing don't always feel like healing."Columbine High School teacher Paula Reed, answering a Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School student's question about when things will get better for the survivors of the Parkland, Florida school shooting. Sixty Parkland students traveled to Colorado and met with Columbine survivors . Today is the 19th anniversary of that massacre.JUST WATCHED Columbine, Parkland students unite for walkout Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Columbine, Parkland students unite for walkout 02:16BREAKFAST BROWSEBaby on boardIllinois Sen. Tammy Duckworth made history by casting a vote on the Senate floor with her newborn baby at her side.JUST WATCHED Sen. Duckworth brings baby to vote in Senate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sen. Duckworth brings baby to vote in Senate 01:39Marketing magicWhat's the best place to launch a new product? How about the witness stand. That's where AT&T's CEO talked about a new streaming service.Let the sunshine inBlackouts are a part of everyday life in some parts of Puerto Rico, but not for one man, who built his own solar power systemJUST WATCHED Puerto Rico suffers island-wide power outage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Puerto Rico suffers island-wide power outage 01:20The robots are comingWatch (and weep) as a robot builds an IKEA chair in just 20 minutes . It takes us humans that long just to decipher the instructions.JUST WATCHED Watch this robot build an IKEA chair in minutes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch this robot build an IKEA chair in minutes 00:57Banks behaving badlyThe top bank in Australia is in hot water after it admitted to charging fees to customers it knew were already deadTOTAL RECALLQuiz timeSaudi Arabia ended a 35-year ban on movie theaters with the screening of what film?A. "A Quiet Place"B. "Black Panther"C. "Rampage"D. "Blockers"TODAY'S NUMBER$1 billionThat's the fine federal regulators will hit Well Fargo with for charging mortgage borrowers unfair fees and forcing customers into car insurance.JUST WATCHED Wells Fargo managers: Pressure was too much Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wells Fargo managers: Pressure was too much 03:48AND FINALLYSoul jam