(CNN) It's Tax Day. Again. No, you're not still dreaming. A computer glitch means the IRS is extending the deadline to midnight tonight . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Pompeo-Kim Jong Un meetingCIA Director Mike Pompeo made a secret trip to North Korea a few weeks ago and met with Kim Jong Un, sources tell CNN. Pompeo reportedly was laying the groundwork for direct talks between Kim, the reclusive nation's brutal dictator, and President Trump. That meeting -- planned for late May or early June -- would be the first face-to-face meeting between a sitting US President and a North Korean leader. Trump said five locations are being considered.This extraordinary revelation comes as Pompeo's nomination for secretary of state hits a rough patch . It looks like the Senate Foreign Relations Committee will vote against it , with all Democrats and one Republican in that camp. GOP leaders -- in a very rare move -- still plan to hold a full confirmation vote on the Senate floor, where they'd pressure moderate Dems who are up for re-election.2. Barbara BushThe matriarch of the most powerful Republican dynasty in modern history has died. Former first lady Barbara Bush , 92, was the wife and mother of Presidents, but she was so much more than that. Instantly recognizable with her white hair and pearls, she was a plainspoken yet feisty public figure who adopted literacy as her cause. She promoted women's rights and was such a strong defender of her husband, former President George H.W. Bush, that she earned the moniker, "the enforcer." Bush r edefined the role of first lady , CNN contributor Kate Andersen Brower said. Among the flood of tributes pouring in , perhaps the most poignant came from her family, including former first lady Laura Bush, who tweeted, "The world is poorer without her in it."JUST WATCHED Remembering former first lady Barbara Bush Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remembering former first lady Barbara Bush 03:213. Southwest Airlines emergency landingIt reads like a scene out of a Hollywood thriller: A piece of a plane engine breaks off in midair, shatters a window, and a mom in a window seat is halfway sucked out of the plane before terrified passengers haul her back in; then, despite their heroism, she dies. This horror story was all too real on a New York-to-Dallas Southwest Airlines flight that made an emergency landing in Philadelphia . Investigators say one of the engine's 24 fan blades is missingJUST WATCHED Hear Southwest pilot's emergency call Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hear Southwest pilot's emergency call 00:45The plane took a steep dive after the engine failure, dropping from 31,684 to 10,000 feet over five minutes before the pilot regained control . There was absolute panic in the cabin , where passengers and crew, after pulling the victim back in, tried to plug the hole with jackets and other objects. Those objects were sucked out, too. The victim, 43-year-old Jennifer Riordan , was a well-known leader in New Mexico who worked for Wells Fargo.JUST WATCHED Watch passenger video inside Southwest plane Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch passenger video inside Southwest plane 02:344. UK and Caribbean immigrantsBritish Prime Minister Theresa May apologized for the UK's treatment of some Caribbean immigrants , saying they're still welcome. The extraordinary apology comes after the UK government was condemned for how it's treated the so-called Windrush generation, the first large group of Caribbean migrants to arrive in the UK after World War II. Tough new rules imposed during May's time as Home Secretary mean Windrush children who came to Britain with their parents in the late 1940s don't have proper documentation and are now struggling to prove their British citizenship . Some have lost jobs and been evicted, while a few were threatened with deportation.JUST WATCHED UK apologizes to Windrush children Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH UK apologizes to Windrush children 02:265. Child soldiers freedJUST WATCHED From the army to refugee camps and back Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH From the army to refugee camps and back 01:53TODAY'S QUOTE"With all due respect, I don't get confused."BREAKFAST BROWSEThe great escapeAll it took was a barrel. Four baboons in Texas just climbed on top and escaped their enclosure . One made it to the street, but they're all back home now.JUST WATCHED Baboons escape research lab, lead men on chase Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Baboons escape research lab, lead men on chase 00:41A Beyonce blessingAfter her #Beychella triumph, Queen Bey is donating $100,000 to historically black colleges.JUST WATCHED Beyoncé makes history at Coachella Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Beyoncé makes history at Coachella 00:52Fantastic finishShe beat cancer three times, so she wasn't going to let hypothermia stop her from finishing the Boston Marathon.Sketchy sketchEverybody loves to make Tom Brady a villain, but saying he matches the sketch of the man Stormy Daniels says threatened her is (probably) taking it too far.JUST WATCHED Internet spoofs Stormy Daniels' sketch Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Internet spoofs Stormy Daniels' sketch 01:59HAPPENING LATERNew leaderA new Cuban president will be selected in a two-day National Assembly meeting that starts today , and for the first time in the lives of most Cubans, a man not named Castro will take power.JUST WATCHED Cuba prepares for the end of the Castro era Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cuba prepares for the end of the Castro era 02:54TODAY'S NUMBER8,000The number of stores Starbucks will close on May 29 to conduct racial-bias training for its employees. The move comes after the arrest of two black men at a Starbucks in Philadelphia led to protests and claims of discrimination. Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson has met with the two menJUST WATCHED Starbucks CEO: I'm going to fix this Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Starbucks CEO: I'm going to fix this 01:30ANOTHER QUOTE"I think we play too much baseball."Chicago Cubs first baseman Anthony Rizzo, echoing a common complaint about Major League Baseball's 162-game season. Rizzo said he'd be willing to sacrifice pay if it meant making the season shorter.JUST WATCHED Inside Wrigley Field's manual scoreboard Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Inside Wrigley Field's manual scoreboard 02:07AND FINALLYClass is in session