(CNN) It's a somber morning in California, and a somber day around the country: Today is the 50th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Here are some ways you can honor him today , along with everything else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. YouTube shootingWe're still learning about yesterday afternoon's shooting at the YouTube headquarters near San Francisco. A female shooter opened fire, injuring three people before killing herself with a handgun. The shooter has been identified as 39-year-old Nasim Najafi Aghdam. Police still aren't sure of a motive and say they know "very, very little right now." They say there's no evidence that she knew the victims or that anyone was specifically targeted.The YouTube headquarters is home to 1,100 employees . After the incident, the tech giant released a statement, saying, "It feels like the entire community of YouTube, and all the employees were victims of this crime."2. TariffsAerospace and marine equipment : Air combat flying simulators, airplane parts, helicopters, tankers, ferries and fishing boatsManufacturing : Bookbinding machines, brewery machines, concrete mixers, hand-held blowtorches, milking machines, nuclear reactors, snowplowsMedical supplies : Artificial body parts, artificial teeth, catheters, dental fillings, hearing aids, vaccines for humans and animalsOther : Artillery weapons, cash registers, fire extinguishers, flamethrowers, seismographsJUST WATCHED China announces tariffs on certain US products Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China announces tariffs on certain US products 01:203. Midterm electionsJUST WATCHED MAGIC WALL: What GOP departures mean for 2018 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH MAGIC WALL: What GOP departures mean for 2018 01:594. Oil spillIndonesian authorities have declared a state of emergency over an oil spill off the Southeast Asian country's coast . The spill has been spreading for almost a week, wreaking environmental and economic havoc. It's also been blamed for the deaths of four fisherman. Video shows parts of the spill catching fire, and authorities are warning people to keep open flame away. People reportedly were having trouble breathing and experiencing nausea and vomiting since the fires broke out. Indonesian authorities say they aren't sure what caused the spill.5. Martin Luther King Jr.JUST WATCHED Civil rights icons remember MLK 50 years later Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Civil rights icons remember MLK 50 years later 02:25BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.How can we record our dreams?This sounds like a good idea -- until you have that one where you show up to work in your underpants.Photos: Your worst nightmares Physical aggression – Recent dream research has revealed the most common nightmares among Americans. Here they are as immortalized by Hollywood.Hopefully your nightmares about physical aggression are not as intense as the 2004 film "Saw." Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Your worst nightmares Falling – The 1976 classic "The Omen," Damien knocks his mother off a balcony. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Your worst nightmares Being chased – Being chased is a nightmare scenario in many horror films, but 1974's "The Texas Chain Saw Massacre" is so scary it may actually give you nightmares. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Your worst nightmares Paralysis – Alex, the main character in Stanley Kubrick's 1971 adaptation of the Anthony Burgess novel "A Clockwork Orange," is one if the most famous depictions of someone being immobilized.Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Your worst nightmares Being late – Clarice Starling races against time to save a woman's life in Jonathan Demme's 1991 film, "The Silence of the Lambs." Those who have nightmares of being late can relate to the dread surrounding the consequences of tardiness.Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Your worst nightmares Close person dies – The parents in 1989's "Pet Sematary," based on the Stephen King novel, live through a common nightmare, the death of a loved one. What happens next is even scarier. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Your worst nightmares Evil forces – Jack Nicholson's character succumbs to the common nightmare theme of evil forces in Stanley Kubrick's 1980 adaptation of Stephen King's "The Shining." Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Your worst nightmares Accidents – Nightmarish accidents, the more bizarre the better, take the lives of many characters throughout "The Final Destination" film series. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Your worst nightmares Health concerns – Health concerns, such as the zombie apocalypse depicted in the 2013 film "World War Z," are a common nightmare. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Your worst nightmares Helplessness – The "Scream" franchise revels in the helplessness of its many victims, preying on a common nightmare scenario.Hide Caption 10 of 10The Hubble telescope discovered the farthest single star ever seenJUST WATCHED Hubble: The greatest telescope ever Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hubble: The greatest telescope ever 01:01This intense video appears to show snow, but it's actually ... pollenJUST WATCHED It looks a lot like snow, but it's pollen Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH It looks a lot like snow, but it's pollen 00:30Bed Bath & Beyond will exchange your Toys 'R' Us gift cardsNew dinosaur tracks have been discovered in ScotlandTODAY'S NUMBER10 millionAND FINALLYPay no attention to the man on the dumbbells.