(CNN) We've known for some time that the Great Barrier Reef's in serious trouble. But all hope is not lost. Australia's pledging millions to save it. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Migrants caravanThat caravan of migrants from Central America has made it to America's doorstep . The migrants are in Tijuana, Mexico, right outside the San Ysidro port of entry in San Diego. About 50 of them were admitted to the immigration processing center on the Mexico side of the border, while dozens of others spent the night camping outside. Border patrol officials said the port is already full and migrants trying to get into the US may need to wait in Mexico as officials process those already in the facility.The migrants, who say they're fleeing violence and poverty in their home countries, want asylum. It's not illegal to enter the US at a port of entry and ask for asylum; international law requires the US consider asylum claims. President Trump, in tweets and at his rally in Michigan Saturday night, said that he would not accept the migrants into the country.2. Afghanistan explosionDozens of people died this morning in a pair of explosions in Kabul, and one of the blasts specifically targeted journalists. The first blast hit in the city's Shashdarak neighborhood, home to the US embassy and Afghan government buildings. As journalists rushed to the scene, a suicide bomber disguised as a cameraman set off a second explosion, police said. Right now the death toll stands at 29 people, including eight journalists. Kabul, Aghanistan's capital, has a seen a slew of attacks in recent weeks.JUST WATCHED Journalists among the dead in Kabul blasts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Journalists among the dead in Kabul blasts 01:143. UK immigration scandalShe's the fourth high-ranking minister to resign from May's government in the past six months. Today Parliament will debate a petition calling for an amnesty for "anyone who was a minor that arrived in Britain between 1948 to 1971," which includes the Windrush generation.JUST WATCHED Amber Rudd resigns as British home secretary Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Amber Rudd resigns as British home secretary 00:354. T-Mobile and SprintThe on-again, off-again merger talks between T-Mobile and Sprint are back on. If the third- and fourth-largest wireless service providers manage to get together, it'll leave the US with just three major wireless carriers, including Verizon and AT&T. The merged company, which would take the T-Mobile name, wants to create a nationwide 5G network . But the merger has to get an OK from the government first, and that's definitely not a sure thing. Concerns about competition have scuttled merger bids between the two companies before.5. White House Correspondents' DinnerBut the bottom line is this: Most Americans didn't catch Wolf's act at the dinner, nor do they care to pick sides in the controversy. They were too busy doing much more important stuff, like enjoying the nice spring weekend and packing theaters to see the latest "Avengers" movie.JUST WATCHED Comedian jokes about Trump's wealth Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Comedian jokes about Trump's wealth 01:15BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Say it in songThe Ye and The Donald love fest continues, this time with Kanye West rapping up a defense of his praise of the President. But T.I.'s not having any of it.JUST WATCHED Kanye West song defends his praise for Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kanye West song defends his praise for Trump 01:32World takeoverJUST WATCHED Avengers assemble for 'Infinity War' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Avengers assemble for 'Infinity War' 02:37All that jazzIs jazz improv the key to unlocking the brain's secrets ? A musician who just happens to be a neuroscientist tries to find out.JUST WATCHED Your brain on jazz improv Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Your brain on jazz improv 01:30A shot in the armA lot of folks had left "Fear the Walking Dead" for, well, dead, but producers of the show hope last night's plot twist bring it new life.Walk of lifeFootball left him paralyzed. Marriage -- and his new bride -- helped him walk at his wedding.JUST WATCHED Bride helps paralyzed groom walk on wedding day Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bride helps paralyzed groom walk on wedding day 01:30QUOTE OF THE DAY"I genuinely do not believe I wrote those hateful things because they are completely alien to me."Joy Reid, MSNBC host struggling to explain herself after homophobic remarks from a blog she ran in the 2000s surfaced. She first claimed that she had been hacked but now admits that cybersecurity experts haven't been able to prove that.JUST WATCHED Analysis: Was MSNBC host Reid a hack victim? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Analysis: Was MSNBC host Reid a hack victim? 08:30AND FINALLY ...Wind walker