(CNN) Airlines may soon offer an exciting new class of travel, as long as you're OK sleeping ... in the cargo hold . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White HouseThere's just SO MUCH NEWS swirling around 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. Let's try to get our arms around it all:-- President Trump's national security team meets again today to discuss a response to the chemical attack in Syria. The President caught his aides, the Pentagon and US allies off-guard (again) with his tweets that "nice and new and 'smart!'" missiles would be fired toward the country. Now, Syrian forces have r etaken the area where the attack happened, Russia says.-- Trump praised House Speaker Paul Ryan, who said he won't seek re-election . CNN's Harry Enten said Ryan's retirement is another sign that the GOP's House majority is in real danger this fall.JUST WATCHED Paul Ryan: No 'devil's bargain' with Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Paul Ryan: No 'devil's bargain' with Trump 01:44JUST WATCHED WaPo: Bannon aiming to cripple Mueller probe Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH WaPo: Bannon aiming to cripple Mueller probe 01:462. FacebookJUST WATCHED Internet roasts Zuckerberg for 'booster seat' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Internet roasts Zuckerberg for 'booster seat' 01:553. Pope FrancisPope Francis admits he made "grave errors" and asks for forgiveness for how he handled a sex abuse scandal in Chile . The plea comes in a letter to Chilean bishops in which Francis says he plans to meet "personally" soon with representatives of 64 people interviewed in connection with the scandal involving Bishop Juan Barros. The pope already has apologized for defending Barros , who's accused of covering up for the Rev. Fernando Karadima, whom the Vatican found guilty of child sex abuse. After reading a report detailing the interviews, Francis said he felt "pain and shame."JUST WATCHED A look at Pope Francis' papacy at five years Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A look at Pope Francis' papacy at five years 02:294. Algerian plane crashWhat caused the plane crash in Algeria that killed at least 257 people? The military plane went down right after takeoff from an air base near the country's capital of Algiers. It's not clear if there were any survivors. Images of the crash site on Algerian TV showed the plane's tilted fuselage with smoke rising from it. Part of the plane's body detached and could be seen sticking out from a grove of olive trees. The crash is the world's deadliest since 2014, when 298 people were killed when a Malaysian airlines jet was shot down over Ukraine.JUST WATCHED Hundreds killed in plane crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hundreds killed in plane crash 00:485. Gulf StreamGlobal warming's having an adverse effect on the Gulf Stream, scientists say, which could exacerbate the effects of climate change. The stream, a key part of the ocean's circulatory system, is at its weakest in more than 1,600 years , research shows. The weakening won't be slowed anytime soon, scientists say , meaning it will help feed the rise in sea levels and increase the frequency of extreme weather events. The system is essentially a belt that brings warm, salty water from the Gulf of Mexico up to the North Atlantic, where it releases its heat into the atmosphere before sinking to the depths of the ocean, then travels south to the Antarctic, where the journey starts again.TODAY'S QUOTE"You did it. You fix it!"The chants of residents of Flint, Michigan, who traveled to the state Capitol to protest the state's decision to end a free bottled water program. Residents say Flint's water, which was found to have had large quantities of lead that sickened people, is still unsafe.JUST WATCHED Flint water crisis in 90 seconds Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Flint water crisis in 90 seconds 01:39BREAKFAST BROWSE'They wanted to give us hugs'What do you do when you're a teacher in Oklahoma, out of class for days protesting and miss your students? You set up a playdate , of course.JUST WATCHED Teachers and students play as walkout continues Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Teachers and students play as walkout continues 00:55Set sailHitch a ride on the world's largest cruise ship , which boasts the tallest waterslide, more art than the Louvre and the ocean's fastest internet.'In a really good place right now'Mariah Carey, who revealed she's diagnosed as bipolar , hopes coming forward will help lift the stigma of the disease.JUST WATCHED Mariah Carey shares bipolar disorder struggle Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mariah Carey shares bipolar disorder struggle 00:36Not Paradise IslandThere's only one place in America where women earn more money than men , and it's on an island in the middle of the Caribbean.Cover shotThe cover of a California high school student magazine features a physical "bullet hole" that pierces every page.TODAY'S NUMBER64That's how many pounds of plastic and waste were found inside the stomach of a sperm whale that washed up on a beach in Spain.JUST WATCHED How can I save the ocean from plastic? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How can I save the ocean from plastic? 01:36AND FINALLYLet me talk to ya