(CNN) It's Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day ! CNN's Kelly Wallace put together a survival guide for parents. Tip No. 3 -- Don't lose track of them -- seems kind of important. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Emmanuel Macron2. Michael CohenMichael Cohen's going to keep silent in the Stormy Daniels case. Cohen, President Trump's personal attorney, said he'll invoke the Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination regarding the lawsuit brought by the porn star. The move comes after the FBI raided Cohen's home, office and hotel room as part of a criminal investigation by the feds . Taking of the Fifth is part of Cohen's plan to have Daniels' suit put on hold . She has sued to void the $130,000 agreement in which she agreed to not talk about an alleged sexual encounter with the President, which the White House says Trump denies happened.3. Travel banJUST WATCHED Listen as lawyers argue travel ban case Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Listen as lawyers argue travel ban case 04:044. China and IndiaThe leaders of two Asian nations will get together tomorrow for a summit that could affect millions of lives. No, we don't mean the much-anticipated North and South Korean meeting at the DMZ, which is also set for Friday. We're talking about Chinese President Xi Jinping hosting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi this weekend. It's a clear sign of warming relations between the two estranged nuclear powers , whose countries are home to more than 2.6 billion people and make up 17.6% of the global economy.5. Golden State killerThe hunt for one of the nation's most elusive serial killers may now be over. Police say ex-cop Joseph James DeAngelo is the Golden State Killer , who allegedly murdered 12 people and raped at least 50 in California during the '70s and '80s. DeAngelo, 72, was arrested near Sacramento, near where many of the crimes happened. A discarded DNA sample from DeAngelo's home matched evidence in the investigation, detectives said.JUST WATCHED Sacramento DA: We found needle in the haystack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sacramento DA: We found needle in the haystack 02:10TODAY'S QUOTE"I have no idea where that is coming from. I have not wrecked a car. I can tell you that."Embattled VA chief nominee Ronny Jackson, reacting to new misconduct allegations , including a claim that he got so drunk at a going-away party that he wrecked a government vehicleJUST WATCHED New allegations against Trump's VA pick Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New allegations against Trump's VA pick 02:54BREAKFAST BROWSEWedding rehearsalRoyal bride-to-be Meghan Markle wrapped up her acting career with her character, Rachel Zane, tying the knot on "Suits."JUST WATCHED What you didn't know about Meghan Markle Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What you didn't know about Meghan Markle 01:56Apu problemsActor Hank Azaria says he'll stop playing Apu if that'll help resolve the controversy surrounding the longtime "Simpsons" character.JUST WATCHED Actor de "Los Simpsons", arrepentido por la imagen que transmite Apu Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Actor de "Los Simpsons", arrepentido por la imagen que transmite Apu 01:34Oh, thanks CanadaThere aren't as many tornadoes blowing through the Midwest this spring. Meteorologists say we can thank our nice neighbor to the north for that one.Double troubleJUST WATCHED 'Double Dare' is returning to TV Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Double Dare' is returning to TV 00:49HAPPENING LATERTeacher walkouts, protestsTeachers in Arizona start their walkout today, while their counterparts in Colorado protest at the state Capitol. Both want better pay and education fundingTODAY'S NUMBER2The car options available from Ford in North America. The automaker is dropping every passenger car model except for the Mustang and the upcoming Ford Focus Active. Ford will continue to offer its full line of trucks, SUVs and crossovers.JUST WATCHED Ford offers a muzzle for the Mustang's growl Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ford offers a muzzle for the Mustang's growl 01:15ANOTHER QUOTE"The mob can't make me not love him."JUST WATCHED Yes, President Trump just retweeted Kanye West Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Yes, President Trump just retweeted Kanye West 01:04AND FINALLYCan't be bothered