(CNN) What's next for the man once known as "America's Dad" after a judge declared a mistrial in the aggravated indecent assault case against Bill Cosby?Prosecutors immediately said Saturday they will retry the case . Regardless of how that plays out, the road ahead is murky for Cosby.He still faces a number of civil lawsuits alleging assault and defamation. Yet he suggested before the trial in Pennsylvania that he plans to get back to comedy."I want to get back to the laughter and enjoyment of things that I've written and things that I perform on stage," he told CNN host Michael Smerconish last month on his radio program on the SiriusXM POTUS channel.Civil lawsuitsDozens of women have accused Cosby of misconduct, but Andrea Constand's accusation was the only one that led to criminal charges. Most of the other incidents allegedly occurred years ago, outside the statute of limitations.Lawyers for Cosby have said throughout that their client is innocent of all accusations.Still, a handful of lawsuits in federal and state courts could lead to monetary awards against Cosby. Three are defamation cases in which accusers say Cosby defamed them as liars, and two are civil assault lawsuits.The most prominent was brought by Tamara Green in federal court in Massachusetts. Green, who says Cosby sexually assaulted her in 1970, filed a suit in December 2014. She accuses Cosby and his team of lawyers and representatives of defaming her and calling her a liar for speaking out about the accusations.Six other women -- Therese Serignese, Linda Traitz, Louisa Moritz, Barbara Bowman, Joan Tarshis and Angela Leslie -- have joined that suit.Janice Dickinson , the model and reality TV personality, said in a November 2014 interview that Cosby sexually assaulted her after the two had dinner at Lake Tahoe in 1982. Cosby attorney Martin Singer called that accusation a "fabricated lie."Janice Dickinson, one of Cosby's accusers, has sued for defamation.Dickinson and her attorney Lisa Bloom sued Cosby for defamation in May 2015, saying Singer's comments hurt her professionally and personally."Calling Dickinson a liar is a defamatory statement under the law ... and that's the mistake Bill Cosby made," Bloom said at the time. "It was too late for her to sue for rape or for drugging, but once he, through his representatives, called her a liar, she had a fresh claim for defamation and that's the lawsuit that we filed."One other defamation suit, filed by Katherine McKee, was dismissed by a federal judge in February. She said she plans to appeal the decision.Finally, Cosby faces at least two open civil assault lawsuits. Judy Huth, who says Cosby sexually assaulted her at the Playboy Mansion when she was 15, sued in December 2014. Chloe Goins sued in May 2016.'I want to get back to the laughter'Cosby has suggested he may go back to comedy.Before his arrest, the septuagenarian was still cranking out jokes. He released a comedy special in 2013 titled "Far From Finished." In 2014-15, he embarked on a cross-country tour around the time dozens of women were accusing him of assault.In the Smerconish interview before the trial, Cosby said he would have to deal with negative public opinion no matter the verdict. But he said he still has an "awful lot to offer" in his comedy."I know the side that I'm on and the side that I'm hoping for, and after that, there's more work to be done," he said. "But I still feel that I have an awful lot to offer in terms of my writing, in terms of my performance."Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Bill Cosby is taken away in handcuffs after he received a prison sentence of three to 10 years on Tuesday, September 25. In April, the entertainer had been found guilty of drugging and sexually assaulting Andrea Constand 14 years ago. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby, shown here in 1969, began his career in New York nightclubs as a standup comedian. His clean-cut style became a career mainstay. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby feeds one of his children in the mid-1960s. Cosby first made his name with his comedic storytelling, often based on his childhood experiences. In 2011, SPIN magazine put "To Russell, My Brother, Whom I Slept With" at the top of its 40 Greatest Comedy Albums of All Time list. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby won three Emmys for his portrayal of Alexander Scott, an Oxford-educated spy who travels undercover with his tennis-playing partner, Kelly Robinson (Robert Culp) in "I Spy," which aired on NBC from 1965 to 1968. Cosby was the first African-American to star in an American dramatic series. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon In 1972, Cosby starred in "The New Bill Cosby Show," a variety program. Among his guests was Ray Charles, whose version of "Night Time Is the Right Time" would play such a standout role on "The Cosby Show" years later. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon In 1972, Cosby helped create "Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids," a Saturday morning TV series that ran for more than a decade. It later became a 2004 live-action film starring Kenan Thompson as Fat Albert. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Bill – Cosby's biggest TV hit, "The Cosby Show," premiered in 1984. Phylicia Rashad played his wife, Clair Huxtable. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon After "The Cosby Show" was another sitcom, "Cosby," which aired from 1996 to 2000. Cosby played retired airline agent Hilton Lucas. The show also starred T'Keyah Crystal Keymáh. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon President Bill Clinton chats with Cosby and TV correspondent Linda Ellerbee at a 1996 conference on children's television. Cosby, who has a doctorate in education, is a strong believer in using television to send educational messages. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon In 1997, Cosby suffered the loss of his son, Ennis, who was fatally shot on the side of an Los Angeles freeway. Cosby's series' "Little Bill" used the phrase "Hello, friend" -- Ennis' regular greeting -- in tribute to his son. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby shares a laugh with baseball great Hank Aaron after they both received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2002. The medal is America's highest civilian award. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby and comedian Jerry Seinfeld embrace in 2009 at the annual awarding of the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor. Cosby declined the prize twice before accepting. His mother read Twain to him as a child -- a huge influence on his storytelling. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby accepts the Marian Anderson Award in 2010 at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby speaks at the 20th anniversary of the Rev. Al Sharpton's organization, the National Action Network, in 2011. In recent years, Cosby has been outspoken on the subjects of poverty, family and responsibility in the black community. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby speaks in 2012 during the 100th anniversary celebration of the Beverly Hills Hotel & Bungalows supporting the Motion Picture & Television Fund and the American Comedy Fund. The comedian is active in several charitable causes. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Cosby performs at the Buell Theater in Denver in 2015. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon Andrew Wyatt, a Cosby spokesman, raises his fist as Cosby exits a courthouse in Norristown, Pennsylvania, in June 2017. Cosby was facing three counts of aggravated indecent assault from a 2004 case involving Andrea Constand, an employee at his alma mater, Temple University. But it ended in a mistrial after a jury was unable to come to a unanimous decision. Constand was the first of more than 50 women who have accused Cosby of sexual misconduct. Cosby has denied wrongdoing. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Bill Cosby: Evolution of an icon The jury in Cosby's retrial found the TV icon guilty on all three counts in April. Hide Caption 18 of 18In his later years, Cosby took on a role of public moralist , criticizing what he saw as a lack of family values and personal responsibility in the African-American community. He told Smerconish he hoped to be that motivational figure once again."I want to take other things and move it to halls, churches, etc., to give what I feel will be motivational and informational and drive people to make changes in themselves, the home life, because the one quote that I sustained is 'The revolution is in the home.' "Cosby also appeared to take aim at protesters who caused a number of cancellations on his comedy tour"Why would people threaten the hall, threaten the people who booked the show, when in fact the people who are coming are those who are buying tickets?" he said. "So these people are saying he has or she has -- the people they want to bar -- has no right, no right whatsoever to be appearing in this place."