(CNN) Are you a geeky guy? A new study says you can thank (or blame) your dad . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Senate health billThe Congressional Budget Office's assessment of the Senate bill may come as early as today. The CBO score on the House's version of the bill (which is very similar to the Senate bill) said if it became law, 23 million fewer people would have health insurance.2. RussiaJUST WATCHED Trump tries to shift hacking focus to Obama Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump tries to shift hacking focus to Obama 04:483. DisastersAcross the globe, it was a weekend of horrific disasters:at least 153 people were killed when In Pakistan,when a fuel tanker truck exploded . The truck had crashed and was leaking fuel. People had gathered around it to collect the fuel in pots when something -- a cigarette, a cell phone, maybe the tanker's batteries -- set off the explosion.at least 10 people died in a remote mountain village in Sichuan province. The search for about 100 missing people has been called off as authorities warn of more landslides. In China, after a landslide in a remote mountain village in Sichuan province. The search for about 100 missing people has been called off as authorities warn of more landslides.JUST WATCHED Rainfall possible factor in fatal landslide Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rainfall possible factor in fatal landslide 03:00at least seven people died after In the Indian-administered portion of Kashmir,after falling from a cable car during strong winds.at least six people died after In Colombia,after a tourist boat capsized . Thirty-one people are missing.4. TakataThe exploding airbag scandal has finally brought down Takata. The Japanese auto parts maker filed for bankruptcy in Japan and the US. Takata's faulty airbag inflators, which can blast shrapnel into drivers and passengers, were linked to 11 deaths and resulted in tens of millions of recalls. The company admitted to manipulating and withholding key info, even after the aribags started exploding, and pleaded guilty to criminal charges that will cost it $1 billion. With debts now zooming past $9 billion, the company threw in the towel.5. SpaceXWhat a weekend for SpaceX! Elon Musk's private space company successfully launched two rockets -- one from Florida's Kennedy Space Center and the other from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California. Both launches helped put communications satellites into orbit. Sunday's launch marked SpaceX's ninth so far this year, setting a new record for most launches in a single year.JUST WATCHED Specialized zip line helps rescue astronauts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Specialized zip line helps rescue astronauts 00:52BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Dirty moneyAbout 80% of our cash carries cocaine -- and a whole lot of other icky, nasty things we'd rather not talk about.Train spottingA couple in Britain is visiting every train station in England, Scotland and Wales -- some 2,563 of them -- because, well, they really like trains.So ugly, she's cutePretty poisonAn airline in Thailand celebrated Britney Spears' concerts by having some flight attendants recreate her sultry "Toxic" videoClimbing the corporate ladderLots of workplaces have fitness centers. That's cute. A new 62-story skyscraper in London will have a "climbing window" for its employees.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHModi meetingPresident Trump welcomes Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the White House today. The subject of H-1B work visas is sure to come up, since Indians get about 70% of them each year.NUMBER OF THE DAY20That's how old Harry Potter is. The very first book in J.K. Rowling's uber-popular series was published 20 years ago today , on June 26, 1997.AND FINALLY ...Let's be friends