(CNN) The shooting at a congressional baseball practice reminds us of something we too often forget: We are one country, and we're all in this together. Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. Congressional shootingThe congressional charity baseball game will be played as scheduled tonight as Washington and the nation deal with the shock over the shooting of GOP team members at a practice in Alexandria, Virginia. Rep. Steve Scalise , the House majority whip, is recovering in the hospital in critical condition after being shot in the hip. He'll need more surgeries. President Trump and the first lady visited him. A congressional staffer, a lobbyist and a Capitol police officer were also shot during the practice.Police are trying to gather all the info they can about James T. Hodgkinson , the Illinois man who shot them with a rifle. He was killed by Capitol police officers who returned his fire. Hodgkinson owned a small business but had apparently been living in his van in the DC area for months. A quick look at his social media pages revealed that he hated conservatives -- and especially President Trump. He volunteered for the 2016 presidential campaign of Bernie Sanders, who called the violence "despicable."There were calls for unity after the shooting -- from the President House Speaker Paul Ryan and others -- and a plea for everybody to lower the heat on the nation's political rhetoric. The President won't attend tonight's game, though, because of security concerns.And that wasn't the day's only mass shooting in the US. Three people died in San Francisco when a UPS employee opened fire on his fellow workers.2. President TrumpJUST WATCHED What is obstruction of justice? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is obstruction of justice? 01:17And here's more bad news for Trump: Almost 200 Congressional Democrats are suing him , saying he's violating the Constitution by taking foreign money through his various businesses.3. London fireJUST WATCHED Anger and solidarity after London blaze Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Anger and solidarity after London blaze 01:364. Fed rate hikeFor the third time since December, the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates. The quarter-point rate hike is another sign of the Fed's growing confidence in the US economy. The Fed also upgraded its forecast for economic growth and unemployment this year. Interest rates affect how much you pay on your mortgage or credit cards, and how quickly money grows in your savings accounts.JUST WATCHED How the Federal Reserve works Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How the Federal Reserve works 02:365. Fried potatoes studyDo you like french fries? Hash browns? Potato chips? Well, here's something you probably already knew -- that stuff is really not good for you. And here's something you probably didn't know -- it may be taking years off your life. People who eat fried potatoes more than twice a week double their risk of an early death , a new study from the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition says.JUST WATCHED Summer foods for weight loss Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Summer foods for weight loss 01:13Breakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Garden varietyThey say there's nothing new under the sun. And that includes Missouri, where a 256-year-old coloring book was found at a botanical garden.Wild rideIf you see Duke the dog anytime soon, give him a hug. He's had a rough time of it after being tossed 1,000 feet a few weeks ago by a tornado.Now that I have your attentionCut off a chicken's head, rip out its guts, and put it all on Facebook Live . Um, there's probably a better way for a lawmaker to announce his new anti-abortion bill.Girls vs. boysSki racer Lindsey Vonn wants a "Battle of the Sexes"-style rumble before next year's Winter Olympics.And finally ...So nice