(CNN) A year ago today, a gunman opened fire at a gay nightclub in Orlando, killing 49. The shockwave it generated still reverberates . Here's what else you need to know today to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Jeff SessionsThere's another blockbuster hearing for the Senate intelligence committee this week. We just don't know if it'll be in public or private. Attorney General Jeff Sessions said he plans to testify before the panel tomorrow. That came as a surprise to a lot of folks -- especially the senators on the committeeSessions was supposed to talk with the House and Senate spending committees on the Justice Department's budget. But questions about the Russia probe were sure to come up, so Sessions wants to meet with the intelligence committee -- in closed session -- instead. Some Democrats say this is just a ploy by Sessions to avoid answering prickly questions about Russia in the open, so they're pushing for him to testify in public.2. QatarIran is sending planes filled with food to Qatar. Five planes landed over the weekend and Iran says it plans to send 100 tons of fresh fruit and legumes every day. Qatar definitely needs it. The wealthy, but tiny, Mideast nation imports virtually all of its food. But last week many of Qatar's neighbors -- including Saudi Arabia, from where it gets most of its food -- cut links with the country , accusing it of supporting terrorism. And the fact that Qatar is getting help from Iran will only further tick off the Saudis. Just in case you didn't know, Iran and Saudi Arabia are bitter foes.JUST WATCHED Qatar crisis threatens to tear families apart Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Qatar crisis threatens to tear families apart 02:583. Puerto RicoIt's hard to figure out what to make of the results of Puerto Rico's statehood vote over the weekend. Sure, an overwhelming number of Puerto Ricans -- 97 percent -- voted for statehood, but the turnout was really low at just 23 percent. Also, this election was just a nonbinding referendum. If Puerto Rico really wants to go from commonwealth to statehood , Congress will have to get involved. It's the only body that can approve new states.JUST WATCHED Why Puerto Rico might become the 51st state Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Puerto Rico might become the 51st state 02:164. Uber5. Mississippi mysteryPolice in Mississippi are investigating two different crime scenes that may have an obvious, yet gruesome connection. A severed head was found on the front porch of a home . A couple of hours later, and less than a mile away, a burned, headless body was discovered in the woods by some kids. Authorities are going to have to wait for the coroner and medical examiner to report back to see if head and body belong to the same person.JUST WATCHED Severed head, headless body discovered Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severed head, headless body discovered 00:49BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Goodbye, Caped CrusaderJUST WATCHED 'Batman' actor Adam West dead at 88 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Batman' actor Adam West dead at 88 02:46Broadway's big nightThanks dadHis father died just months before his 16th birthday, but dear old dad left one last, beautiful gift for his son.Sophi smilesShe's done with first grade -- and cancer -- with what may be the most heartwarming school's-out-for-summer picture ever.NUMBER OF THE DAY$447.8 millionThat's how much one lucky lotto player in Cali won in the Powerball drawing . So if you know anyone in L.A., you might want to give them a call.AND FINALLY ...Where'd it go?