(CNN) It's Fourth of July weekend!! Be careful out there. Some popular fireworks have been recalled after unintended explosions . Here's what else you need Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Trump tweetsSo, the President tweeted. Donald Trump went on a weird rant Thursday morning against MSNBC host Mika Brzezinski and her partner and co-host Joe Scarborough, calling her "crazy," him "psycho" and saying he rejected both of them for an interview while Brzezinski was "bleeding badly" from a facelift.A lot of people, including top GOP lawmakers , found the tweets questionable at best, but Melania Trump and Deputy White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders both stood by them , with the first lady's spokesman saying the President "will punch back 10 times harder" when insulted.The President and the MSNBC hosts obviously have a difficult relationship, but the flap comes at an especially inopportune time for the administration: After all, it's still trying to court GOP senators to get the health care bill passed2. ChinaJUST WATCHED US, China share concerns over North Korea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US, China share concerns over North Korea 02:253. GermanyJUST WATCHED German lawmakers vote to legalize gay marriage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH German lawmakers vote to legalize gay marriage 01:274. Travel banThe travel ban is back in effect, which means new court orders opposing it are, too . Less than an hour before the ban was slated to start, Hawaii filed an emergency motion. Its issue? The part of the ban that defines a "bona fide relationship" that would allow people from six banned countries into the US. Under the current parameters, sons- and daughters-in-law and the betrothed are "bona fide," but grandparents, aunts, uncles and cousins aren't.JUST WATCHED What to expect with Trump's revised travel ban Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What to expect with Trump's revised travel ban 01:565. US birth rateThe US birth rate has hit a record low . With fewer than 4 million births last year, the number of babies squealing from coast to coast is the lowest it's ever been, a government report finds. The drop hinges, at least in part, on another new record low -- in teen births. Those dropped 9% last year, compared with 2015. It continues a long-term trend that's seen the birth rate among teens drop 67% since 1991. No surprise: It's "access ... and use of contraceptives that has really led to these kind of changes," one expert said. On the flip side, there's been an uptick in births to older moms , with 4% more babies born last year to women ages 40 to 44.JUST WATCHED Giving birth in the US is more dangerous than you think Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Giving birth in the US is more dangerous than you think 01:37QUOTE OF THE DAY"Copy editors save our buts"The message on a sign carried by a New York Times employee protesting plans to cut the paper's editing staffBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.A teen shot and killed her boyfriend while attempting a YouTube stuntThe couple was trying to get famous by pulling off dangerous pranks.JUST WATCHED Woman fatally shoots boyfriend in online stunt Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman fatally shoots boyfriend in online stunt 00:55Greta Van Susteren is out at MSNBC after only six monthsOne-bedroom 'Fixer Upper' house goes on market for $950,000JUST WATCHED 1-bed 'Fixer Upper' home lists for $950K Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 1-bed 'Fixer Upper' home lists for $950K 01:09Instagram rolls out new tools to scrub mean comments and spamNUMBER OF THE DAY4,800AND FINALLY ...Grab your headphones