(CNN) There are fast-moving developments coming out of London on Monday morning, so let's get right to what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. London terror attacksLondon's trying to return to some sense of normalcy after the United Kingdom suffered its third terror attack in as many months. Seven people were killed Saturday night when three men in a van deliberately ran over pedestrians on London Bridge, then jumped out of the vehicle and stabbed people at random at nearby Borough Market. The attackers were shot dead by police . ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack but offered no evidence to back up the claim.Police have ID'd the three attackers and are expected to name them soon. Police also conducted raids and arrested 11 people. London Mayor Sadiq Khan vowed his city wouldn't be cowed by terrorism, while British Prime Minister Theresa May promised a tougher attitude to fighting homegrown extremismSurvivors and witnesses described scenes of horror: the van knocking people "nearly 20 feet in the air" on the bridge. One person jumped into the River Thames to escape. In a diner, terrified patrons hid in the back of a restaurant from a man who ran in with a "massive knife."We need to be smart, vigilant and tough. We need the courts to give us back our rights. We need the Travel Ban as an extra level of safety! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 3, 2017Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack Forensic officers work at the scene of a terror attack at London Bridge in London on Sunday, June 4. At least seven people were killed in attacks late Saturday as a van mowed down pedestrians on London Bridge before attackers then stabbed victims at nearby Borough Market. Hide Caption 1 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack Counterterrorism officers patrol near the scene of the attack on London Bridge. When speaking to the media on Sunday, British Prime Minister Theresa May did not announce any increase in the UK terror threat level. Hide Caption 2 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack A woman reacts after asking a Police officer to lay flowers near London Bridge as a tribute to the victims of the attack. Hide Caption 3 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack UK police officers on Sunday continue their investigation into the terror attacks on London Bridge and in a nearby restaurant district. The attacks on June 3 came days before a general election and two weeks after 22 people were killed when a suicide bomber targeted an Ariana Grande concert in Manchester. Hide Caption 4 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack Prime Minister Theresa May makes a statement at 10 Downing Street, following a Cobra security meeting in response to Saturday night's terror attack. Violence must "never be allowed to disrupt the democratic process," May said, adding that Thursday's general election will go ahead. Hide Caption 5 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack Abandoned buses line London Bridge as the scene remains under investigation following the attack. Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley said in a statement Sunday that a white van struck pedestrians on London Bridge. Attackers then left the vehicle and "a number of people were stabbed, including an on-duty British Transport Police officer who was responding to the incident at London Bridge," said Rowley. The officer received serious but not life-threatening injuries. Hide Caption 6 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack Counter terrorism officers move up an escalator under The Shard, an iconic highrise near the scene of last night's London Bridge attack. Hide Caption 7 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack A group of police forensic officers walks in the street outside Borough Market. Hide Caption 8 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack People lie on the ground after being detained by police at Elizabeth Fry apartments in Barking, east London, which officers raided Sunday, June 4, following Saturday's terror attack at London Bridge and Borough Market. Hide Caption 9 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack A bouquet of flowers left near the police cordon at London Bridge on June 4. Hide Caption 10 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack A view from above shows where a van struck pedestrians on London Bridge -- and then crashed into a barrier. Hide Caption 11 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack This image, from London's Borough Market, shows two of the attackers after they were shot by London police. The attackers drove a white van into pedestrians on London Bridge, leaving bodies lying in the roadway, a witness to the incident told CNN Hide Caption 12 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack Armed police patrol near London Bridge on Saturday, June 3. Mayor Sadiq Khan said it was a "deliberate and cowardly attack" on Londoners enjoying Saturday night out. Hide Caption 13 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack The white van used in the attack is seen near London Bridge. Hide Caption 14 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack Police carry out a search near empty buses on London Bridge, Saturday, June 3. Hide Caption 15 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack A person is treated for injuries near London Bridge. Hide Caption 16 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack Members of the public flee after reports of the incident involving a vehicle and pedestrians. Hide Caption 17 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack Police and emergency responders attend to an injured person. Hide Caption 18 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack An armed Police officer gestures after the attack in central London. Hide Caption 19 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack Guests from the Premier Inn Bankside Hotel are evacuated following the attacks. Hide Caption 20 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack A woman wearing an emergency blanket talks on her phone at London Bridge train station. London Bridge Tube station was closed and London Bridge was closed in both directions. Hide Caption 21 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack Armed police raid The Blue Eyed Maid on Borough High Street. Hide Caption 22 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack Debris and abandoned cars remain at the scene of one of the incidents. Hide Caption 23 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack Police sniffer dogs are seen at London Bridge. Hide Caption 24 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack A helicopter flies near London Bridge. Hide Caption 25 of 26 Photos: London Bridge, nearby cafe target of terror attack People are led to safety on Southwark Bridge, away from London Bridge. Hide Caption 26 of 262. Gulf states shakeupSaudi Arabia, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates have all suddenly severed diplomatic ties with Qatar . Egypt has broken off diplomatic relations with Qatar, too. This is big deal for the Mideast and has a global impact as well. So what's going on? Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and the UAE are in a regional alliance called the Gulf Cooperation Council -- which has been around for almost four decades -- so they've obviously all had pretty good relations until now. The countries say they're isolating Qatar over concerns about terrorism. It may partially be a reaction to a Qatari emir's reported praise of Iran. As you probably remember, Saudia Arabia has long been at odds with Iran, which is a strong backer of Qatar.Some observers think the Saudis and the other countries are flexing a little muscle after President Trump urged the Gulf nations to do more against terrorism during his visit to the region last month.There are some immediate, real consequences to all of this: The UAE is kicking out Qatari residents and barring Qatari nationals from entering the country; Bahrain is expelling Qatari diplomats and closing up airspace and ports between the two countries. Qatar calls the severing of diplomatic ties "unjustified."JUST WATCHED Nations cut ties with Qatar Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Nations cut ties with Qatar 02:433. Portland protestsPortland, Oregon -- still reeling from last month's deadly stabbings on a commuter train -- had to deal with more unrest over the weekend, this time in the form of protests. At least 14 people were arrested when hundreds of President Trump's supporters faced off against a slightly larger group of counterprotesters. The President's supporters were holding a "Trump Free Speech" rally. The counterprotesters viewed it as an endorsement of racism and hate since the rally came so close after two men were stabbed to death while coming to the defense of teens facing anti-Muslim slurs. Police separated the two groups, so the counterprotesters took out their frustrations by hurling bottles, bricks and balloons with a "foul-smelling liquid."JUST WATCHED Tensions rise at Portland protests Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tensions rise at Portland protests 02:214. Manchester concertWith the tragedy of the weekend London attacks looming large, singer Ariana Grande held a benefit concert in Manchester to help the victims of the terror attack that took place after her performance in the northern English city almost two weeks ago. The "One Love Manchester" concert featured an emotional Grande, along with performances by Katy Perry, Justin Bieber and others. On Friday, Grande visited some of her injured fans at a children's hospital.JUST WATCHED Concert brings together people of Manchester Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Concert brings together people of Manchester 00:105. Shopping mallsIf it seems more and more malls are closing, it isn't your imagination. And it's about to get worse, according to a new report. Roughly a quarter of American shopping malls will be gone within the next five years, says Credit Suisse, a global financial services company based in Switzerland. And you probably have already guessed why such doom and gloom is predicted -- online shopping. Right now online sales are 17% of retail sales, but by 2030 they're expected be about 35%.JUST WATCHED Empty US shopping malls a sign of the times Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Empty US shopping malls a sign of the times 02:40Breakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Language barrierDuring a time in which people have been physically attacked for speaking Spanish in public, the No. 1 song in the country is ... in Spanish. What's up with that?Smile and waveWelcome to the Miss Tibet pageant . It's held in India, there are very few sponsors and none of the nine participants has ever been to Tibet. Say what?'Covfefe' on your Corvette?President Trump's "covfefe" first appeared on Twitter, but you'll probably be seeing it the next time you're stuck in trafficEverything old is new againTurns out some car manufacturers best "new" ideas are actually ones recycled from assembly lines of the past.Photos: Bringing back the classics BMW last made an 8 Series more than 17 years ago; it recently signaled the return of the badge with this show car, called the Concept 8 Series. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Bringing back the classics The Concept 8 Series shows how BMW will take its large coupe upmarket -- but it's interesting that it has decided to use a name from the past. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Bringing back the classics BMW has a history of producing retro-influenced concepts; this 2015 offering referenced the firm's classic 3.0 CSL road-racer from the 1970s. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Bringing back the classics A year after the 3.0 CSL Hommage, BMW wheeled out a tribute to the 2002. It was based on an existing production car, but never made showrooms. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Bringing back the classics One of the earliest nods to BMW's history was the M1 Homage, a two-door supercar. Despite intense interest, it failed to reach production. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Bringing back the classics Fiat's core model strategy is now based around the 500, which apes the styling of the original from the 1950s. The firm often produces retro-themed editions, such as this Vintage '57. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Bringing back the classics VW brought its Beetle back to 'modern' production; it has also flirted with reinventing its classic Microbus. This Bulli concept was the first of several themed show cars to appear. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Bringing back the classics The Sedric is the VW Group's idea for how 'mobility solutions' will become as important as car ownership in the years ahead. Its shape reflects the fact that nobody may be driving it. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Bringing back the classics BMW's present to itself in its centenary year was the Vision Next 100. It's a fully autonomous concept, but even its futuristic design contains familiar BMW styling cues. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Bringing back the classics The F 015 shows Mercedes' vision for how a self-driving car would allow its occupants to sit and relax in an environment that's closer to being a lounge than a vehicle. Hide Caption 10 of 10What's for lunchHere's what's coming up laterSmarter Siri?Apple, currently losing the voice assistant wars to Amazon and Google, unveils a Siri smart speaker Monday, along with other new goodies.In courtBill Cosby's trial on aggravated indecent assault charges is set to start today.JUST WATCHED CNN Special Report: The Case Against Cosby Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN Special Report: The Case Against Cosby 00:10Number of the day$100.5 million