(CNN) London wakes up to another terror attack involving a vehicle. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. London terror attack2. Navy warship collisionThe Navy's mourning the loss of seven sailors after a warship collided with a merchant vessel in Japan. The sailors were found in flooded compartments after the USS Fitzgerald, a 10,000 guided-missile destroyer, collided with the 29,000-ton container ship on Saturday. Officials aren't speculating how the incident occurred but the location -- Japan's Izu Peninsula -- sees heavy maritime traffic, with 400 to 500 vessels crossing it daily.Also this weekend: Seven US service members were wounded in an insider attack by an Afghan soldier at a US camp in northern Afghanistan. It's the second weekend in a row when US forces have been victims of a so-called blue-on-green attack by an Afghan soldier.JUST WATCHED Navy identifies 7 sailors killed in collision Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Navy identifies 7 sailors killed in collision 01:213. Iran and ISISIran said it would avenge the recent terror attacks on its soil. And it made good on its word over the weekend. It launched a missile attack targeting ISIS forces in eastern Syria. It's the first time Iran has fired missiles at another country in 30 years. This is a real escalation in the Syrian conflict because Iran's a big backer of the Syrian regime. So the strike helps President Bashar al-Assad too. ISIS claimed responsibility for the terror attacks almost two weeks ago on Iran's Parliament building and a shrine that left 16 people dead.JUST WATCHED Iran fires missiles into Syria Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iran fires missiles into Syria 03:064. High-profile trialsThree trials ended over the weekend with three different outcome.A mistrial: The Bill Cosby case ended in a mistrial when the jury deadlocked. Prosecutors vowed to try again.JUST WATCHED After Cosby mistrial: what comes next? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH After Cosby mistrial: what comes next? 08:57An acquittal: Officer Jeronimo Yanez was acquitted in the shooting death of Philando Castile.JUST WATCHED Castile family outraged over acquittal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Castile family outraged over acquittal 02:24A conviction: Michelle Carter was convicted of involuntary manslaughter for convincing her boyfriend via text messages to kill himself.JUST WATCHED See Michelle Carter's reaction after ruling Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See Michelle Carter's reaction after ruling 00:495. PoliticsJUST WATCHED Lawyer says Trump isn't under investigation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lawyer says Trump isn't under investigation 01:44BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.How now brown cow?About 7% of you think chocolate milk comes from brown cows . Here's a spoiler alert -- it doesn't.Water wonderfulWelcome to Inspiration Island, the first water park in the world designed specifically for those with disabilitiesBeyonce's babiesLet's be honest. The only news some people cared about this weekend was the birth of twins to Queen Bey and Jay-Z.JUST WATCHED Beyoncé in 98 Seconds Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Beyoncé in 98 Seconds 01:41Cops (or robbers) in trainingThey stole three police vehicles and Tasers and started a police chase. The exploits of some hardened criminals? Nope, just the LAPD's own teen cadetsStill not eating themA new study suggests we'd all eat more vegetables if they were given more enticing names . Yeah, right.QUOTE OF THE DAY"I'm such an idiot. I blew it. I completely spaced."Golden State Warriors head coach Steve Kerr, who inexplicably forgot to thank star player Steph Curry during his speech at the NBA champ's parade.NUMBER OF THE DAY$5 billionAmount Amazon's Jeff Bezos is shy of in overtaking Bill Gates as the wealthiest person in the world . Bezos is now worth about $84.6 billion total.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what to expect later this weekMake or break weekSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell wants a vote on repealing and replacing Obamacare before the 4th of July recess, and that window is closing fast . Expect decisions on what a final proposal would look like by midweek.AND FINALLY ...How to play hide and seekThis dad demonstrates his sure-fire way to play the game, and it involves a sound no child can resist.