(CNN) Looking to make some extra cash? There's a $10 million reward for paintings stolen in the world's biggest art heist. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. White HouseOn the eve of what could be the most important day so far in the Trump presidency -- James Comey's Senate testimony -- comes word that the President and his attorney general just aren't getting along . Jeff Sessions even offered to resign, a source told CNN, after heated exchanges with Trump after Sessions recused himself from the Russia investigation. The President lashed out this week at the Sessions-led Justice Department during a tweetstorm over his travel ban , and now the White House won't say if Trump has confidence in Sessions , a former senator who was among Trump's earliest backersNow, back to Comey. The fired FBI director is expected to refute the President's claims that Comey told Trump multiple times that he wasn't under investigation. Republicans are bracing for almost certain fallout from Thursday's Senate intelligence committee hearing, which our Chris Cillizza says is the political world's equivalent of the Super Bowl . We'll have wall-to-wall coverage all day on CNN and our CNN Digital platforms.2. Iran attacksThe capital of Iran was hit this morning with simultaneous attacks . Gunmen in Tehran went on a shooting spree in the parliament, where at least one attacker detonated a suicide bomb and others took hostages. At the same time, a woman waged a bomb-and-gun attack at the Ayatollah Khomeini mausoleum south of the city. Two people were hurt, and she's under arrest. Iranian officials are scrambling to figure out who was behind the attacks, and we're keeping up with live updates . Terrorist incidents are exceedingly rare in Iran, where tourist and government sites are tightly policed.JUST WATCHED Security forces rush to attack sites in Tehran Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Security forces rush to attack sites in Tehran 00:303. UK terror attacksJUST WATCHED London Bridge attacker once appeared in TV doc Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH London Bridge attacker once appeared in TV doc 03:564. Qatar crisisIs Russia behind the crisis in Qatar? US investigators tell CNN they think so. Investigators think Russian hackers planted a fake news report that led many of Qatar's neighbors in the Gulf to cut off diplomatic ties . Qatar says the May 23 report falsely attributed quotes hailing Iran as an "Islamic power" to Qatar's Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani. That caused Saudi Arabia (Iran's biggest foe) and eight other countries to freeze out the tiny, wealthy nation.The fallout is the Mideast's biggest crisis in years. Qatari citizens and diplomats are being kicked out of the other countries. There's serious concern about food shortages in Qatar because almost all of its food is imported from Saudi Arabia, which has severed all land, air and sea links. And the isolation of Qatar -- which has the largest US military base in the Mideast -- could further complicate US goals in the region, like fighting ISIS.JUST WATCHED Food, fuel and flights: How Qatar may suffer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Food, fuel and flights: How Qatar may suffer 01:185. Alcohol and the brainWe all know that heavy drinking is not good for the body or the brain. Now a new report says even moderate drinking can alter the brain . The study, in a British medical journal , looked at how people who are moderate (a nightly glass of wine, plus a little more on weekends) to heavy drinkers fared on brain tests. Heavy drinkers showed signs of brain damage affecting language skills, and researchers were surprised to see brain damage in moderate drinkers, too. But don't go pouring your liquor down the drain just yet. More research is needed, and other studies have shown some health benefits from moderate drinkingJUST WATCHED What's worse -- pot or booze? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What's worse -- pot or booze? 00:58Today's number ...20The number of employees fired by Uber after an investigation into sexual harassment at the ride-sharing companyJUST WATCHED Uber CEO launches sexual harassment probe Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Uber CEO launches sexual harassment probe 01:49Breakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Meet the parentsInternational power couple Amal and George Clooney are the proud parents of twins , the first children for the human rights lawyer and the actor.Notorious RBGGet ripped with Ruth Bader Ginsburg? Yep. Thanks to a new book , you too can train to be as spry as the 84-year-old Supreme Court justice.Walk of lifeHe walked with her on her first day of kindergarten, so of course this Texas dad was right by her side on her last day of high school.Red flagThe soccer-loving girl with the short haircut got booted from a tournament -- because officials thought she was a boy.Total recallMore than 22,000 pounds of beef recalled from stores in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio and Tennessee because of E. coli fears.And finally ...It's so fluffy!