Story highlights "Orlando is stronger no matter their race, religion, gay or straight," vigil attendee saysMonday's vigil marks one year since a gunman opened fire at Pulse, killing 49Orlando (CNN) Love was in the air -- and on signs, T-shirts and murals -- as people gathered at the Pulse nightclub to remember those lost and mark the first anniversary of the worst terror attack on American soil since 9/11.The crowd overflowed into the street, and people lined up outside the fence surrounding the club to pay respects. In the parking lot, flowers and handmade hearts were passed out as vigil attendees from across central Florida hugged, held hands and shed tears.Photos: Vigil pays respects to Pulse victims Photos: Vigil pays respects to Pulse victims People hold hands Monday, June 12, as they attend a memorial service at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando. A vigil was held at the club a year after a mass shooting claimed 49 lives there. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Vigil pays respects to Pulse victims Jose Ramirez, a survivor of the shooting, visits the memorial site on June 12. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Vigil pays respects to Pulse victims Angel Ayala, left, and Carla Montanez mourn the loss of their best friend. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Vigil pays respects to Pulse victims From left, club owner Barbara Poma, City Commissioner Patty Sheehan and City Commissioner Regina Hill attend the memorial service. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Vigil pays respects to Pulse victims Hailey Smiley and Sarah Kennedy hug during the ceremony. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Vigil pays respects to Pulse victims People dressed as "guardian angels" attend the memorial service. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Vigil pays respects to Pulse victims US Rep. Val Demings listens as the Orlando Gay Chorus performs at the service. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Vigil pays respects to Pulse victims A tattoo remembers those who were lost. Hide Caption 8 of 8"We are here to pay our respect to those who were not lucky enough to escape," said Travis Ohler, 26, from Orlando, who was at Pulse the night of the mass shooting but left before the horror unfolded. "Orlando is stronger no matter their race, religion, gay or straight. Orlando is coming together to show that we are stronger than that hate that was driven away."The names of all 49 of those slain were read aloud Monday, as club owner Barbara Poma and others heaped praised upon the first responders that horrific night, as well as the community that has wrapped its arms around Pulse and its clientele in the year since."We stood up. We stood together. And we took care of one another," Poma said. "Orlando was proof love always wins."