Story highlights City workers from Waco will come to West to allow that town's workers to go to funeralsOfficials are combing through rubble to find source of initial fireThe types of chemicals stored at the plant are not yet knownFirefighter Kenneth "Luckey" Harris Jr. is laid to rest"Shovel by shovel," investigators are combing through the charred remains of a fertilizer distributor leveled by a massive explosion one week ago.Much of the landscape surrounding the West Fertilizer Co. in West, Texas, is unrecognizable. What was once a corn silo appears to have crumpled in the force of the blast. A blue tarp covers the shell of a rail car.Left is a crater nearly 100 feet wide and 10 feet deep that was once the site of a building. The crater is now filled with mangled metal and crumbs of mortar. Concrete chunks -- some the size of shopping carts -- are strewn hundreds of yards away from the blast site.But amid the devastation, forensic mappers are hoping to find clues.Hundreds of small pink flags indicate anything on the ground that crews want forensic investigators to take a closer look at.Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Forensic mappers work the crater at the site of a fire and explosion in West, Texas, on April 24, 2013. The West Fertilizer Co. plant in the small Texas town exploded days earlier on April 17, killing 15 people. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives search the bank of rail tracks for evidence at the site of the explosion. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Search and rescue workers comb through what remains of a 50-unit apartment building, in foreground, and a nursing home on April 18, 2013. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – The remains of an apartment complex lie on cars. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A deer head mount sits inside a car parked next to an apartment complex damaged in the explosion. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A Valley Mills Fire Department firefighter walks through the remains of an apartment complex next to the fertilizer plant. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Smoke rises from the rubble of a house next to the fertilizer plant. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A railroad boxcar lies on its side near the plant. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A Texas State Trooper stops people from entering a neighborhood near the plant. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A chimney is the only part of a home left standing after the explosion. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Brandon Smith removes broken glass from the West Thrift Shop. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Search and rescue workers comb through what remains of a 50-unit apartment building. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – The West Fertilizer Co. lies in ruins. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A sheriff's deputy comforts a woman at a command post. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Remains of the fertilizer plant burn in the early morning after the explosion. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Water is sprayed on the remains of the plant. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – With smoke rising in the distance, a law enforcement officer runs a checkpoint at the perimeter about half a mile from the plant. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Waco Police spokesman William Swanton speaks to reporters about the explosion. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Glass from blown-out windows lies shattered on the sidewalk and street after the blast. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Shattered glass covers items in front of a thrift store. Hide Caption 20 of 20JUST WATCHED Texas residents see homes after blast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Texas residents see homes after blast 01:35JUST WATCHED Texas blast victim expects long recovery Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Texas blast victim expects long recovery 01:43JUST WATCHED Residents coping after fertilizer blast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Residents coping after fertilizer blast 02:09Officials face a difficult task in reconstructing the fire that preceded the deadly explosion. Still unknown: what types of chemicals and in what quantities were stored at the facility.One official likened the investigation to a jigsaw puzzle."Right now, think of that coffee table where all 100 pieces are gathered around," Brian Hoback, an official with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, told the San-Antonio Express News. "Now, we're going to pull them together."ATF Special Agent in Charge Robert Champion said determining what started the initial fire is "the key.""We feel the explosion was caused by the fire so we've got to determine what the cause and the origin of the fire was, and that's why we're ... attempting to re-enact that fire scene," Champion said. "A fire scene is complicated in itself. But you compound that with an explosion and it really complicates the issue."So far, investigators have ruled out the possibility that natural causes ignited the fire.Meanwhile Wednesday, in a memorial at the blast site, an American flag was raised and a bugler played taps as workers paused to remember the 14 people killed. A few miles away, one of those victims, Kenneth "Luckey" Harris Jr., was laid to rest. Harris, a 52-year-old Dallas firefighter who lived in West, was one of 10 first responders who died.Hundreds of firefighters from Dallas and other areas surrounding West came for the funeral, the first to be held for a first responder killed.Firefighters lined the sidewalk as Harris' flag-draped coffin was carried out and loaded into the back of a Dallas firetruck to be carried to the cemetery. Bagpipes played as the coffin proceeded through the crowd.President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama will attend a larger memorial service on Thursday in Waco for all 14 victims. Ahead of the service, the president signed a proclamation Wednesday ordering all flags in the state flown at half-staff on Thursday.City workers from Waco will replace West workers on Thursday so they may attend funerals and take a break from trying to repair the city's water system and cleaning up the town.