Story highlights Former Presidents Carter and Clinton praise Bush for his initiatives in AfricaBush says the country's greatest days lie aheadThe George W. Bush Presidential Center is dedicatedBush tells CNN he is aware it will rekindle debates about his legacySome may disagree whether George W. Bush was a "uniter, not a divider," as he liked to say, but he did get all five living presidents together for the dedication of his presidential library.At Thursday's event in Dallas, Democratic former Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton praised Bush for his initiatives in Africa, and Bush defended his record."The political winds blow left and right, polls rise and fall, supporters come and go, but in the end, leaders are defined by the convictions they hold," Bush said at the ceremony for the George W. Bush Presidential Center. "My deepest conviction, the guiding principle of the administration, is that the United States of America must strive to expand the reach of freedom."Bush has said he is aware that the opening of his presidential library would reopen debates over the Iraq War and the policies he pursued after the September 11 terrorist attacks. History will show, he said at the dedication, that he always stuck by his convictions."A free society thrives when neighbors help neighbors and the strong protect the weak and public policies promote private compassion," Bush said. "As president, I tried to act on these principles every day. It wasn't always easy and certainly wasn't always popular ... but when future generations come to this library to study this administration, they're going to find out that we stayed true to our convictions."Carter told a story of how he asked, on Bush's inauguration day, for a meeting to talk about a civil war in Sudan that was entering its second decade. Bush kept his word and acted, Carter said."In January of 2005, there was a peace treaty between north and south Sudan that ended a war that had been going on for 20 years," Carter said. "George W. Bush is responsible for that."Photos: Photos: The Presidents club Photos: Photos: The Presidents club The Presidents club – President Barack Obama and former presidents George W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George H.W. Bush and Jimmy Carter arrive on stage for the George W. Bush Presidential Center dedication ceremony in Dallas, on April 25, 2013. Only a few times in history have three or more American presidents been photographed together. Click through to see some of those historic moments. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Photos: The Presidents club The Presidents club – Presidents George H. W. Bush, left, Barack Obama, George W. Bush, Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter pose for a photograph in the Oval Office on January 7, 2009. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Photos: The Presidents club The Presidents club – George W. Bush, George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter appeared together during the opening ceremony of the Clinton Presidential Library on November 18, 2004, in Little Rock, Arkansas. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Photos: The Presidents club The Presidents club – Bill Clinton, George H.W. Bush, Ronald Reagan, Jimmy Carter and Gerald Ford all attended the funeral of President Richard Nixon in Yorba Linda, California, on April 27, 1994. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Photos: The Presidents club The Presidents club – George H.W. Bush, Ronald Reagan, Jimmy Carter, Gerald Ford and Richard Nixon pose during the Ronald Reagan Library dedication on November 4, 1991, in Simi Valley, California. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Photos: The Presidents club The Presidents club – Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter share a light moment in 1981. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Photos: The Presidents club The Presidents club – Harry S. Truman, Dwight D. Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy sit together at House Speaker Samuel Rayburn's funeral in November 1961. Hide Caption 7 of 7JUST WATCHED Recalling 43: 'Bush was a terrific boss' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Recalling 43: 'Bush was a terrific boss' 01:52JUST WATCHED Time lapse of Bush library construction Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Time lapse of Bush library construction 01:51Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – First lady Michelle Obama, President Barack Obama, former first lady Barbara Bush, former President George H.W. Bush and former President George W. Bush attend the opening ceremony of the George W. Bush Presidential Center on Thursday, April 25, 2013 in Dallas. Republicans and Democrats alike and world leaders were in attendance during the official dedication of the facility. Hide Caption 1 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Former President George W. Bush holds back tears as he finishes his speech. Hide Caption 2 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Former president George W. Bush, center, speaks to the crowd at the opening ceremony of the George W. Bush Presidential Center, flanked, left to right, by first lady Michelle Obama, President Barack Obama, former first lady Barbara Bush, former President George H.W. Bush, former first lady Laura Bush, former President Bill Clinton, former first lady Hillary Clinton, former President Jimmy Carter and former first lady Rosalynn Carter. Hide Caption 3 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – George W. Bush gestures a "W" to the crowd after speaking. Hide Caption 4 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – George W. Bush hugs his wife Laura after speaking. Hide Caption 5 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Left to right: Former President Bill Clinton, former first lady Hillary Clinton, former President Jimmy Carter and former first lady Rosalynn Carter listen during the opening ceremony. Hide Caption 6 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Former President George W. Bush and former first lady Laura Bush laugh during former President Bill Clinton's speech. Hide Caption 7 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – President Obama speaks with former first lady Barbara Bush during the ceremony. Hide Caption 8 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, center, attends the ceremony. Hide Caption 9 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – President Barack Obama speaks during the opening ceremony. Hide Caption 10 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Former UK Prime Minister Tony Blair attends the ceremony. Hide Caption 11 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Left to right: former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, former Vice President Dick Cheney, Jenna Bush Hager, her husband Henry Hager, Barbara Bush, Miky Febrega, and former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush sing the national anthem at the ceremony. Hide Caption 12 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – President Barack Obama and former presidents George W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George H.W. Bush and Jimmy Carter arrive on stage for the George W. Bush Presidential Center dedication ceremony. Hide Caption 13 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – George W. Bush's daughter Jenna Bush Hager, her husband Henry Hager, sister Barbara Bush, her boyfriend Miky Fabrega, former governor of Florida Jeb Bush, and his wife Columba Bush attend the opening ceremony. Hide Caption 14 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Boots commemorate George W. Bush's tenure as general managing partner of the Texas Rangers. Hide Caption 15 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete presented this lion, here presented at the library, to George W. Bush during his trip to Africa in 2008. Hide Caption 16 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – A pistol captured with Saddam Hussein on December, 13, 2003, is displayed at the Center. Hide Caption 17 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – This display relates to the Bush administration's faith-based and community initiative. Hide Caption 18 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – A security guard stands in front of the George W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum, part of the George W. Bush Presidential Center on the Southern Methodist University campus in Dallas, on Tuesday, April 16. Hide Caption 19 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Steel beams from the World Trade Center are displayed in the September 11 portion of the George W. Bush Presidential Center on Wednesday, April 24. Hide Caption 20 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Patricia Flynn shows off the interactive table of conflicts in the Middle East. Hide Caption 21 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Former first lady Laura Bush and Alan Lowe, director of the George W. Bush Presidential Library, arrive to speak to media during a tour of the center. Hide Caption 22 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – A photographer makes a photo of the two bronze statues of former Presidents George W. Bush and his father, George H.W. Bush, in a courtyard at the Center. Hide Caption 23 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – Members of the media shoot video inside a recreated White House Oval Office during a tour of the George W. Bush Presidential Center. Hide Caption 24 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – President George W. Bush's baseball collection is on display in the center. Hide Caption 25 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – The entrance to the museum as seen on April 24, the day before its dedication. Hide Caption 26 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – President Bush's and first lady Laura Bush's jackets for Air Force One are on display. Hide Caption 27 of 28 Photos: Photos: George W. Bush Center The George W. Bush Presidential Center – The center features an exhibit on educational policy. Hide Caption 28 of 28The last time the five living presidents were together was right before President Obama took office. It is a rare and special occurrence when the five gather, Obama said."This is a Texas-sized party," Obama said. "When all the former living presidents are all together, it is a special day for our democracy."The presidents on the stage definitely differed on many policy matters, but they all share one quality, Obama said: They did what they believe is right."That's what President George W. Bush chose to do," Obama said.Bush became a little emotional as he closed his speech: "Whatever challenges come before us, I will always believe our nation's best days lie ahead."The center's library and museum take visitors through the turning points of Bush's two terms. The first exhibits recall the 43rd president's initial priorities on education, faith-based community initiatives and tax cuts. And they show how the September 11 terrorist attacks changed everything.At one exhibit, the bright red dress that first lady Laura Bush wore to her husband's first state dinner, just six days before 9/11, stands in contrast to the next, most talked-about artifact in the museum: the twisted hulk of two beams from the World Trade Center.In an interview with CNN's John King, the former president said he knows that the center's dedication will rekindle the debate about his presidency, and he conceded the library is in part an effort by him and supporters to influence history's verdict.But he predicted visitors would find it "more objective" than they might have imagined, and he showed little interest in revisiting flashpoints like Iraq, Hurricane Katrina or the 2008 financial crisis, or the scorn with which many look back at the Bush presidency."You know, I'm really not that concerned about why people did what during my presidency," he said. "I'm more concerned about being an effective person for the rest of my life.JUST WATCHED Clinton pokes fun at Bush's paintings Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Clinton pokes fun at Bush's paintings 02:09JUST WATCHED George W. Bush: Pet portrait painter Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH George W. Bush: Pet portrait painter 03:27Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush looks out over Washington as his helicopter departs for Andrews Air Force Base after the inauguration ceremonies for President Barack Obama in January 2009. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush at Yale University, circa 1964-1968. Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – Barbara Bush holds George W. Bush, circa 1947. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – A young George W. Bush with, from left, his mother, Barbara Bush; father, George H.W. Bush; and grandparents, Dorothy and Prescott Bush, in Midland, Texas, on March 7, 1949. Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – Three-year-old George W. Bush celebrates Christmas in 1949. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush in West Texas, date unknown Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush with his father George H.W. Bush and mother Barbara Bush in Rye, New York, during the summer of 1955. Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George H.W. Bush with his four sons, from left, Neil, Jeb, George W. and Marvin in 1970 Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush sits in the cockpit of an F-102 fighter. Bush served in the Texas Air National Guard from 1968 to 1973. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush stands next to his fighter jet while serving in the Texas Air National Guard. Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush campaigns for Congress with his wife Laura in 1978. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush holds his twin daughters Barbara and Jenna in Dallas in November 1981. Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – Then-President George H.W. Bush with sons George W. and Jeb, right, boating off Kennebunkport, Maine, in 1989. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George H.W. Bush and Barbara Bush pose with their family for their 2000 Christmas portrait. Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush campaigns during an all-day swing through Florida two days before Election Day in 2000. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – Bush is informed by then-White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card of the September 11, 2001, attacks while visiting a school in Sarasota, Florida. Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush speaks to rescue workers, firefighters and police officers at the rubble of ground zero three days after the September 11, 2001, attacks. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush tells the nation on March 19, 2003, that U.S. forces had struck "targets of opportunity" in Iraq to begin the Iraq War. Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush announces on May 1, 2003, that "major combat operations" had ended in Iraq. He made the announcement aboard the aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln, which he had landed on in a Navy jet. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush drives his pickup truck at his ranch in Crawford, Texas, in August 2002. Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush surveys Hurricane Katrina damage through the window of Air Force One as it flies over New Orleans, Louisiana, on August 31, 2005. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – George W. Bush shakes hands with then-Sen. Joe Biden after signing the United States Global Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Reauthorization Act in July 2008. Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: George W. Bush's life, legacy George W. Bush's life, legacy – Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki tries to block shoes thrown by an Iraqi man at George W. Bush during a joint news conference in Baghdad in December 2008. Hide Caption 23 of 23"I know this: that Laura and I gave the presidency eight years of our life. We gave it our all. Made the best judgment calls I could. I didn't compromise my principles. And I'm a content man. And I am excited about what we're going to do here."As the son of another former president, Bush said he wouldn't mind seeing his brother Jeb Bush run for the highest office.If he could make the decision for Jeb, he would tell him to run for president, Bush said.But in an interview Thursday on NBC's "Today," former first lady Barbara Bush said that while Jeb Bush is able to do the job, she would like to see other families in the White House."There are other people out there that are very qualified, and we've had enough Bushes," she said.In addition to the library and museum, the Presidential Center includes the George W. Bush Institute, a public policy institute.