Story highlights "It was just talent, guts and glory," police chief says of officers' heroicsBoat owner who discovers suspect is among citizens who aided manhuntInfrared and cell phone technology help police track two brothers suspected in bombingsThat didn't take long.For a moment, the manhunt into the Boston Marathon bombings seemed as if it would last a while.But an alchemy of police work, citizen involvement and technology yielded big breaks in the case and brought the manhunt to a quick conclusion, ending in the death of one suspect and the capture of his younger brother in the same week as the terror attacks, which killed three people and injured almost 200 people at the marathon.That collective effort was praised by Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick, who credited the manhunt's success to "all of those law enforcement resources, assets and, more important, people, professionals who brought their 'A' game."JUST WATCHED The Miranda debate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The Miranda debate 02:44Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man removes a sign hanging from the Lennox Hotel along Boylston Street after the street reopened to the public for the first time since the Boston Marathon bombings in Boston on Wednesday, April 24. The city is trying to return to normal less than a week after two bombs exploded near the finish line of the Boston Marathon, shocking the nation and leaving the city on edge. See all photography relating to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man washes a bus stop window on Boylston Street on April 24. Hide Caption 2 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Alec Mikels cleans tables at Whiskey's Smokehouse on Boylston Street on Tuesday, April 23 in Boston. Hide Caption 3 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A cleaner power washes Boylston Street near the blast site after the FBI handed the area back to the city of Boston on Monday, April 22, following the week-long investigation. Hide Caption 4 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – The Boston Fire Department Hazardous Materials team cleans the first blast site near the finish line of the Boston Marathon on April 22. Hide Caption 5 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Cleaning material is sprayed on April 22 on the outlined blast seat on the sidewalk of Boylston Street at the site of the marathon bombings. Hide Caption 6 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A member of the Boston Fire Department Hazardous Materials team cleans the first blast site with a pressure washer on April 22. Hide Caption 7 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Brad Marchand of the Boston Bruins embraces one of the first responders from the Boston Marathon attack after the game against the Florida Panthers at the TD Garden on Sunday, April 21, in Boston. Hide Caption 8 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – David Ortiz of the Boston Red Sox speaks to the crowd during a ceremony held in honor of the bombing victims before a baseball game against the Kansas City Royals at Fenway Park in Boston, on Saturday, April 20. Hide Caption 9 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Neil Diamond sings "Sweet Caroline," a song traditionally played at Boston Red Sox home games, during a game against the Kansas City Royals on April 20. Hide Caption 10 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Members of law enforcement react during ceremonies in honor of the Marathon bombing victims before Saturday's game. Hide Caption 11 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Photos: Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A woman sheds a tear during pregame ceremonies Saturday. Hide Caption 12 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Photos: Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man holds an American flag at ceremonies before the Saturday game in Boston. Hide Caption 13 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Hundreds of people pour onto Hemingway Street in the Fenway neighborhood to celebrate after the announcement that the second Boston Marathon bombing suspect had been captured on Friday, April 19. Hide Caption 14 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Women cheer police as they exit Franklin Street on Friday, April 19, in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 15 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Officers from the Department of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives relax Friday after the capture in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 16 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A woman gives a Boston police officer a hug and other officers are thanked during a celebration in the Boston Common on April 19. Hide Caption 17 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A member of the North Metro SWAT team pumps his fist while leaving the scene near Franklin Street on April 19. Hide Caption 18 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Around 200 people celebrate on Hemingway Street in the Fenway neighborhood after the capture of the second suspect on April 19. Hide Caption 19 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – People wave U.S. flags as police drive down the street on April 19. Hide Caption 20 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A photograph of Martin Richard, one of the victims of the Boston Marathon bombing, was placed on the plexiglass by a fan following the hockey game between the Buffalo Sabres and the New York Rangers on April 19 at the First Niagara Center in Buffalo, New York. Hide Caption 21 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man waves a U.S. flag in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 22 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Local residents cheer to news that police have captured the surviving suspect Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 23 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – President Barack Obama arrives in the White House briefing room to make a statement late April 19 about the capture of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. "We've closed an important chapter in this tragedy," he said. Hide Caption 24 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A SWAT team member is followed by reporters and a celebrating crowd on April 19 after the successful operation. Hide Caption 25 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A police officer adjusts his hat while various law enforcement agencies descend on the area around Franklin Street on April 19. Hide Caption 26 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Spectators celebrate as law enforcement officers leave the scene on April 19 near Franklin Street. Hide Caption 27 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – People gather at the scene near Franklin Street in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 28 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man claps next to a police vehicle in the Watertown neighborhood on April 19. Hide Caption 29 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Onlookers applaud first responders departing the scene at the end of the manhunt on April 19. Hide Caption 30 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Police officers and SWAT team members exult after the successful operation to capture suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev on April 19. Hide Caption 31 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Boston SWAT team members are surrounded by spectators and the media on April 19. Hide Caption 32 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Residents clap after the capture of the second of two suspects wanted in the Boston Marathon bombings on April 19. See all photography relating to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 33 of 33JUST WATCHED Boston Strong: The city begins to heal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boston Strong: The city begins to heal 02:01Photos: Famous manhunts Photos: Famous manhunts Guards in an upstate New York prison found the cells of convicted murderers Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat empty during an early morning bed check on June 6, 2015. Three weeks later, Matt was shot and killed by police officers near the Canadian border. Sweat was captured in the same area two days later, ending a massive and costly manhunt. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts State troopers escort Eric Matthew Frein from the state police barracks in Blooming Grove, Pennsylvania, on October 31, 2014. Frein, who is accused of killing a Pennsylvania state trooper and wounding another, was found at an abandoned airport near Tannersville, Pennsylvania, authorities said. He had been on the run for nearly two months. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Edward Snowden, the man who leaked top-secret details about U.S. surveillance programs, has been charged with three felony counts, including violations of the U.S. Espionage Act. He left the United States and hid out in Hong Kong until WikiLeaks helped him move to Moscow, where he lived in an airport for about five weeks before being granted temporary asylum in Russia in August 2013. Snowden has said he is afraid he would not get a fair trial if he came back to the United States. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Convicted mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger spent more than a decade on the FBI's "Most Wanted" list before being arrested in June 2011 in Santa Monica, California. The jury in his federal racketeering trial found him guilty on 31 of 32 counts -- including involvement in 11 murders -- in August 2013. He is currently serving two consecutive life sentences in prison. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Eric Toth, a former private school teacher and camp counselor, was on the FBI's "Ten Most Wanted" fugitives list when he was captured in Nicaragua in April 2013. The investigation into the suspected child predator began in June 2008 after pornographic images of children were found on a school camera that had allegedly been in his possession. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Boston was on edge for days during a massive manhunt for the suspects responsible for the marathon bombings in April 2013. Finally, authorities apprehended Dzhokhar Tsarnaev after an overnight shootout with police that resulted in the death of his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev. A federal jury sentenced Tsarnaev to death in May 2015 for his involvement in the bombings that killed three and injured more than 260 people. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Former Los Angeles police officer Christopher Dorner, accused of killing four people, led police on a chase lasting days before he was tracked to a hideout in the San Bernardino Mountains. He took his own life in February 2013. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Ted Bundy raped and murdered dozens of women across the country in the 1970s. He escaped from prison twice but was captured after being stopped for driving a stolen car in 1978. He was executed in Florida in 1989. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts The FBI is still searching for Abdul Rahman Yasin, a suspect in the February 26, 1993, World Trade Center bombing that killed six and injured more than 1,000 people in New York. Six other suspects were convicted in the attack. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Eric Robert Rudolph -- who was convicted of a string of bombings, including one at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta -- eluded capture until 2003. He was arrested in Murphy, North Carolina, and is serving four consecutive life sentences plus 120 years. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Once a fixture on the FBI's "Most Wanted" list, al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed by U.S. Navy SEALs in an Abbottabad, Pakistan, compound on May 2, 2011. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Lovebird bandits Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow are believed to have committed 13 murders and several robberies and burglaries before they were ambushed and killed by police in 1934. Hide Caption 12 of 12Solving the case was led by a war-like deployment of police. One officer, however, was killed by the suspects.Good citizenship came from a carjack victim and a boat owner, whose 911 calls put police directly on the suspects' trail.And technology yielded the first major break: Police found photos and even a surveillance video of the two suspects toting backpacks -- each ostensibly loaded with a pressure-cooker bomb -- at the marathon's home stretch.Those images gave the world its first look at who could be the bombers, engaging a society to be on the lookout. Those suspects would later be identified as Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, and his younger brother, Dzhokar Tsarnaev, 19."Cameras seemed a useful technology in finding these people and solving this quickly," said Neil Richards, a law professor at Washington University School of Law in St. Louis.The first images of the suspects came into play late Thursday night -- three days after the terror bombings -- after one suspect was seen on security video at a convenience store.In an apparent misstep, police initially thought the two suspects had robbed the store. That wasn't the case, police later said.The same night, suspicions rose again when a campus police officer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge was fatally shot.Police believed one of the bombing suspects shot the officer, Sean Collier, 26, in his cruiser as he was responding to a loud disturbance call.Police don't know why the suspects killed him, but they had another sighting of them.Then came the next big break: In the pre-dawn hours of Friday, a motorist was carjacked and taken hostage.The two carjackers told the driver that they bombed the Boston Marathon and just killed a police officer. The suspects then forced the driver to withdraw money from an ATM.It's unclear why the suspects released the motorist alive, police said.The brothers then acquired another vehicle in a manner that authorities have yet to detail.But it was the first vehicle -- a carjacked Mercedes SUV -- that gave police a stroke of technological fortune.The carjacking victim left his cell phone in the SUV."Lucky for him and lucky for us that his cell phone remained in that vehicle," said Police Chief Edward Deveau of Watertown, Massachusetts.Police began tracking the cell phone -- and the brothers themselves.They were in Watertown, a suburb of Boston, where police engaged the two brothers, now in two cars, in a fierce gunfight. The brother also threw bombs at police."We estimate there was over 200 shots fired in a five- to 10-minute period," Deveau said. "There were so much heroics."It was just talent, guts and glory," he added.One officer tackled the older brother after he ran out of bullets walking down the street -- as if in Hollywood showdown -- firing upon police about 10 feet away.But as police handcuffed the older brother, the younger brother barreled toward them in the carjacked SUV. Officers leaped for their lives.The younger brother then drove over his older brother , dragging him a short distance down the street, police said.Authorities didn't have an immediate explanation as to why he ran over his big brother.The firefight produced at least one casualty: A transit police officer, Richard Donahue, was wounded in the groin. As it turned out, Donahue and Collier, the slain officer, graduated from the police academy together.The younger brother -- now the only surviving brother -- ditched the car and escaped into the dark streets at 1 a.m. Friday.As news outlets reported the dramatic shootout the next morning, the manhunt reached its highest intensity.A major American city was turned into a virtual ghost town: Bostonians, and especially Watertown residents, stayed off the streets. This gave police an open field to notice anything out of the ordinary.Meanwhile, the nation wondered, where was the Dzhokar Tsarnaev?His discovery would turn on the curiosity of a citizen -- a homeowner -- who noticed something amiss late Friday with a tarp covering his boat , stowed in his backyard since winter.Someone had cut a retention strap.A closer inspection showed blood on the tarp.Boat owner David Henneberry thought maybe a varmint had crawled inside, his stepson said.But a peek inside revealed a pool of blood and a silhouette in the darkness of a something, or someone, curled up.Henneberry's immediate call to 911, in effect, began the final chapter of the manhunt.About 2,000 law officers and their technology swarmed the scene.Another firefight between the suspect and police erupted.In the night air, a police helicopter used infrared cameras to see Tsarnaev's movements inside the boat."The technology is called 'flir,' forward looking infrared," said former FBI assistant director Tom Fuentes, also a CNN contributor. "The human body is warmer than the air around him, so it stands out."Knowing the fugitive was alive and moving, police negotiated with Tsarnaev.Bloodied and injured, he surrendered that night, his capture made possible by police, thermal-imaging technology and a citizen's wisdom to run to the phone.