Two days after explosives killed three people and wounded more than 180 during the Boston Marathon, details continue to trickle in as investigators sort through evidence.WHAT'S NEW-- Two men seen in images near the finish line of Monday's Boston Marathon, moments before two bombs there exploded, are of "high interest" and are considered "possible suspects," a law enforcement official said. A circular sent out Wednesday by authorities indicated the attached photos, showing the two men, were being sent around "in an attempt to identify the individuals." The official said the men were of interest because of where they were at a particular time and what they were carrying. One of the men is seen carrying a black backpack. The source said that authorities had not yet identified the two men by name and that the photographs were not being released to the public for fear of impeding the investigation.-- As of Wednesday evening, Boston-area hospitals had released at least 112 of the 178 people treated for injuries sustained in Monday's attack near the Boston Marathon's finish line, according to a CNN tally. Thirteen of those still hospitalized remain in critical condition, hospital officials said.PREVIOUSLY REPORTEDPhotos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A young runner, left, stops by a Boston church blocks away from the scene of the bombings. The blasts exploded near the Boston Marathon's finish line on Monday, April 15, killing three people and injuring more than 170 others. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – Unclaimed finish line bags litter the ground near the bombing sites. A day after the terror attack, authorities warned city residents to keep their guard up amid a massive investigation into the bombings. Hide Caption 2 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – Investigators work at an area of the crime scene on Boylston Street on April 16. Hide Caption 3 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – Blood is visible on a sidewalk in front of a Boston store on April 16. Hide Caption 4 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – Flowers rest against a police barricade down the street from the Boston Marathon's finish line on April 16. Hide Caption 5 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – Unused thermal blankets for runners are piled high near the scene of the bombings on April 16. Hide Caption 6 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – National Guardsmen look out from inside Boston's Back Bay Station on April 16. Hide Caption 7 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – U.S. military Humvees move down deserted Boylston Street on April 16. Hide Caption 8 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – National Guardsmen patrol the Back Bay Station on April 16 as security remains tight in Boston. Hide Caption 9 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – Pedestrians pass National Guard troops at a roadblock on April 16.Hide Caption 10 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – The unfinished meals of fleeing customers are left on tables at an outdoor restaurant in Boston on April 16. Hide Caption 11 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – People congregate at a security gate near the blast scene on April 16. Hide Caption 12 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A man jogs down a street near the scene of the bombings on April 16. Hide Caption 13 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A woman sits alone at a Boston cafe on April 16. Hide Caption 14 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A woman carries a sign she made to support her runner husband near the scene of the bombings. Hide Caption 15 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A police officer stands on duty in Boston on April 16. Hide Caption 16 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – People have breakfast at a Boston cafe on April 16. Hide Caption 17 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A Boston police officer stands near blast sites April 16. Hide Caption 18 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – National Guard troops man a roadblock April 16. Hide Caption 19 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A Boston police officer is heavily armed blocks away from the scene of the bombings. Hide Caption 20 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A runners bib lies discarded April 16. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 21 of 21Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured man is loaded into an ambulance after two bombs went off near the finish line of the Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013. Three people were killed and at least 264 were injured. Hide Caption 1 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man comforts a victim on the sidewalk at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 2 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The second explosion goes off near the finish line. Hide Caption 3 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The first explosion knocked down 78-year-old runner Bill Iffrig at the finish line. He got up a few minutes later and finished the race. Hide Caption 4 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner embraces another woman on the marathon route near Kenmore Square. Hide Caption 5 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Former New England Patriots offensive lineman Joe Andruzzi carries a woman from the scene. Hide Caption 6 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A victim of the first explosion is helped on the sidewalk of Boylston Street. Hide Caption 7 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured person is taken away from the scene in a wheelchair. Hide Caption 8 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A woman kneels and prays at near the finish line. Hide Caption 9 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon People run down Exeter Street after the blasts. Hide Caption 10 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The explosions occurred around 2:45 p.m., about an hour after the first of the race's nearly 27,000 runners had crossed the finish line. Hide Caption 11 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Victims lie on the ground at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 12 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A couple runs from the scene pushing a stroller. Hide Caption 13 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner reacts near Kenmore Square after the explosions. Hide Caption 14 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man's blood-stained feet hang outside an ambulance. Hide Caption 15 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A bystander who was injured in the first explosion is wheeled across the finish line while receiving medical attention from rescue workers. Hide Caption 16 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Carlos Arredondo was at the race handing out American flags to spectators. After the blasts, he helped emergency responders and is credited with helping a man survive serious leg wounds. Hide Caption 17 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The second explosion goes off near the finish line. Hide Caption 18 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police look at blown-out windows. The bombs shook buildings, witnesses said, sending people to seek shelter under tables. Hide Caption 19 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Unclaimed runners' bags fill an area near the marathon finish. Hide Caption 20 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Women desperate to hear from loved ones are unable to get close to the site of the attack. Hide Caption 21 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police and runners stand near Kenmore Square after the attack. Hide Caption 22 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Runners gather near Kenmore Square after the explosions. Hide Caption 23 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An EMT worker is transferred to an ambulance outside a medical tent in Copley Square. Hide Caption 24 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A SWAT team arrives on the scene. Hide Caption 25 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner sits near Kenmore Square after the attack. Hide Caption 26 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Runners who had not yet finished the race are stopped after the explosions. Hide Caption 27 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Victims are helped at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 28 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man in tears is helped at the scene on Boylston Street. Hide Caption 29 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Passersby put pressure on a victim's leg to try to stop the bleeding. Hide Caption 30 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Massachusetts State Police guard an area near Kenmore Square. Hide Caption 31 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Bystanders embrace near the finish line. Hide Caption 32 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police officers gather on Newbury Street. Hide Caption 33 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Women and children are escorted away from the scene. Hide Caption 34 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Bomb squad officials check a possible suspicious device near the scene of the blasts. Hide Caption 35 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A woman is comforted after the blasts. Hide Caption 36 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Two injured women are taken away on stretchers. Hide Caption 37 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured woman is loaded into an ambulance. Hide Caption 38 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon First responders load injured people into an ambulance. Hide Caption 39 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured man is prepared to be moved from a stretcher to an ambulance. Hide Caption 40 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured woman is placed on a stretcher. Hide Caption 41 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner is comforted following the attack. Hide Caption 42 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The Cambridge Police Department's bomb squad investigates unattended personal items left behind after the explosions. Hide Caption 43 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Bystanders check their mobile devices for news of the explosions. Hide Caption 44 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A member of the bomb squad investigates a suspicious item on the road near Kenmore Square. Hide Caption 45 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner in a wheelchair is taken from a triage tent after the explosions went off. Hide Caption 46 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon People comfort each near the site of the blasts. Hide Caption 47 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Racers and race officials stand by after the explosions. Hide Caption 48 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Emergency personnel respond to the scene. Hide Caption 49 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police and emergency crews tend to victims. Hide Caption 50 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured woman is carried away on a stretcher. Hide Caption 51 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man lies on the ground after the incident. Hide Caption 52 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Officials watch as the first explosion goes off on Boylston Street. Hide Caption 53 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Spectators leave the bleachers after the explosions. Hide Caption 54 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police inspect one of the blast sites. Hide Caption 55 of 55JUST WATCHED Source: Bombs were in pressure cookers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Source: Bombs were in pressure cookers 02:28JUST WATCHED Student was filming Boston Marathon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Student was filming Boston Marathon 02:52Investigation-- Significant progress has been made in the investigation but there has been no arrest, the FBI told CNN.-- After sources told CNN that an arrest had been made, sources with the Department of Justice and Boston Police Department each said that no arrest had been made.-- A source with Boston law enforcement said, "We got him," but would not clarify whether that meant an identification had been made or an arrest carried out.-- Some federal sources said that it would be going too far to say even that an identification had been made, but several sources in Boston disputed that, saying a clear identification had been made.-- Investigators believe they have identified a suspect in the marathon bombings, a source who has been briefed on the investigation told CNN's John King. The possible breakthrough came from an analysis of video from a Lord and Taylor department store near the site of the second blast, and video from a Boston TV station helped as well, the official said.-- Obama received updates overnight about the investigation, a White House official said.-- White House officials have been briefed by senior members of the federal response and law enforcement team over the past two days.-- Authorities are processing "the most complex crime scene that we have dealt with in the history of our department," said Ed Davis, the Boston police commissioner.-- Forensic specialists and dogs trained to detect explosive devices and their residue were at the scene of the blasts. A command post has been created, with 1,000 officers conducting interviews and gathering details.-- Authorities have received 2,000 tips from around the world, said Richard DesLauriers, the special agent in charge of the FBI's Boston office. "Someone knows who did this," he said.The casualtiesJUST WATCHED Tracking suspects in the Boston bombings Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tracking suspects in the Boston bombings 03:16JUST WATCHED Mapping out the marathon terror attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mapping out the marathon terror attack 03:58JUST WATCHED Photographer captured agony of bombings Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Photographer captured agony of bombings 02:43JUST WATCHED Beware fake Boston bombing charities Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Beware fake Boston bombing charities 01:32They are:-- Martin Richard , an 8-year-old boy with a gap-tooth grin and bright eyes. He loved to run and play in his yard.-- Krystle Campbell, a 29-year-old freckle-faced woman described by her mother as having "a heart of gold."-- Lingzi Lu, a Boston University graduate student in mathematics and statistics.She and two friends were watching the race near the finish line when the blasts erupted, BU Today reported. The second student was in stable condition at Boston Medical Center; the third student was not hurt, it said.The explosions wounded 183 people.Of them:-- Martin's mother and sister are among the wounded. His mother underwent surgery for a brain injury, and his 6-year-old sister lost her leg.-- Doctors say dozens of victims suffered injuries to their legs that involve blood vessels, bone and tissue.-- The bombings resulted in at least 13 amputations and left doctors picking ball bearings out of victims in the emergency room, a terrorism expert briefed on the investigation said.The explosions-- A lid to a pressure cooker, thought to have been used in the bombings, was found on a roof near the scene of the blasts, a federal law enforcement official with knowledge of the investigation tells CNN.-- The two bombs hit 12 seconds apart near the marathon's finish line.-- One of the two bombs was housed in a pressure cooker hidden inside a backpack, the FBI said. To maximize the impact of the shrapnel, the device may have included "nails, BBs and ball bearings."-- The second bomb was also in a metal container, but there's not enough evidence to determine whether it too was in a pressure cooker, the agency said.-- Evidence recovered from the scene will be sent to the FBI's lab in Quantico, Virginia, where analysts will attempt to reconstruct the devices used in the attack.Pressure cooker bombs-- The simplicity of the bomb makes it hard to trace it to any particular group, an official said.-- The "recipe" for the bombs ignited by pressure cookers can be found widely on the Internet-- In 2004, Homeland Security issued an advisory about pressure cooker bombs.-- They are made by placing TNT or other explosives in a pressure cooker and attaching a blasting cap at the top, the advisory said. Pressure cooker bombs are made with readily available materials.-- Though it could indicate domestic terrorism, such bombs have been used in a handful of instances related to international terrorism attempts over the last few years, an official said.Terror group links-- No connection has been made to any terrorist group or individual.-- "There is no reporting indicating a foreign connection, or any reaction from al Qaeda," a senior U.S. official said.-- Obama described the bombings as an act of terrorism, but said it is unclear whether they were the work of a group or "a malevolent individual."-- The Pakistani Taliban has said it was not involved in the attack.-- Authorities don't have a sense of what the motive is, and no one is in custody, an official said.-- DesLauriers, the FBI special agent, asked the public to report anyone who talked about targeting the marathon or showed interest in explosives. He urged anyone who might have heard explosions in remote areas -- possibly by someone testing a bomb -- or seen someone carrying "an unusually heavy, dark-colored bag" around the time of the attack to come forward.No Saudi connection-- U.S. officials have said that more than one Saudi has been interviewed, including a 20-year-old student who was questioned as a possible witness.-- But a U.S. official said the student "was just in the wrong place at the wrong time."-- The Saudi Embassy in the United States said no Saudi appears to have been involved."The embassy stresses that there is no evidence, according to U.S. authorities, of involvement of any Saudi national in the bombings," it said Tuesday in a statement.-- The investigation is inconclusive."They thought they had something with the Saudi national, and that evaporated," a senior law enforcement official said. "There's no sense that they have latched onto anybody or any motive."-- Authorities are asking those who may have video or pictures taken of the scene around the time of the blasts to call city or FBI hot lines.Security elsewhere-- Cities have stepped up security after the attacks, including Washington, New York, Miami, Chicago, Atlanta and Los Angeles.-- British police said they are reviewing the security plan for the London Marathon scheduled for Sunday. The marathon will observe 30 seconds of silence and is urging runners to wear a black ribbon to mark the Boston tragedy.Reaction-- "Boston is not going to be intimidated by this," said Secretary of State Kerry, a former U.S. senator from Massachusetts, in testimony to the House Foreign Affairs Committee Wednesday. "But we are going to find out who did this. The police work being done is extraordinary. The FBI is remarkable. There is a great deal of forensic evidence. We are hopeful we can bring people to justice."-- "The Islamic Republic condemns killing of innocent people in U.S. Boston, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria in equal measure," Iran's Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said Wednesday, according to a report from the country's state-run Press TV.Tributes-- Obama will travel to Boston on Thursday for an 11 a.m. interfaith service dedicated to the victims.-- Crowds gathered for a vigil on the Boston Common on Tuesday night. They sang songs and lit candles, and some wept.-- In New York, the Yankees played "Sweet Caroline" during their game against the Arizona Diamondbacks in a tribute to the victims. The Boston Red Sox team has played the Neil Diamond song during its games for the past 15 years.