Story highlights Authorities recover gun allegedly thrown from vehicleJames Lohr was arrested Friday morningPolice are investigating whether prisons' chief suspected killer conspired with othersThe suspected killer, Evan Ebel, died in a shootout with Texas authoritiesColorado Springs police have arrested a man whom authorities want to question in relation to the March shooting death of prison chief Tom Clements.James Lohr, described by police as a member of a white supremacist prison gang, is an associate of Evan Ebel , the man suspected of killing Clements, Lt. Jeff Kramer of the El Paso County, Colorado, sheriff's office said.Lohr had three outstanding arrest warrants unrelated to the Clements investigation, and it was not immediately clear whether he is facing new charges.Lohr is scheduled to receive a court advisement via video in El Paso County on Monday afternoon. Arrested after a police chase, Lohr is facing accusations of felony vehicular eluding and three traffic offenses -- reckless driving, speeding and failing to obey a traffic control devise, the sheriff's office said.Authorities also recovered a gun allegedly thrown from Lohr's vehicle during the chase. A business surveillance video caught a man picking up the firearm. It was turned in to law enforcement to be used as evidence, Kramer said.In addition to Lohr, police were on the lookout for another Ebel associate, Thomas Guolee, 31.Meanwhile, authorities were questioning another two people associated with Ebel, whom a source close to the investigation declined to name.Police want to question Lohr and Guolee -- whom police described as associates of the white supremacist 211 Crew gang -- in relation to the death of Clements. Ebel, the man suspected of shooting the chief, was also a 211 Crew member. He died in a shootout with Texas deputies.The other two men, brought in for questioning in recent days by El Paso County authorities, are also 211 Crew members, the source said. Both associated with Ebel in the days before Clements' death, the source said, and at least one is a parolee.JUST WATCHED Clements widow not focused on error Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Clements widow not focused on error 03:10JUST WATCHED Clements' widow: We pray to forgive killer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Clements' widow: We pray to forgive killer 08:53JUST WATCHED Fatal mistakes exposed in killings? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fatal mistakes exposed in killings? 02:56Authorities have also served a search warrant related to one of them, the source said. The source declined to say what the warrant named.Investigators have said they were looking into whether Ebel might have conspired with other inmates to kill Clements.Clements was widely recognized for cracking down on prison gangs, including the 211 Crew.Authorities have speculated Ebel might have killed Leon for his uniform so he could use it as a disguise in the killing of Clements, who was gunned down on March 19 after he opened his front door.JUST WATCHED Evan Ebel's red flags overlooked Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Evan Ebel's red flags overlooked 02:56JUST WATCHED Service for slain Colorado prison chief Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Service for slain Colorado prison chief 02:08He had been sentenced to eight years in prison in 2005 for armed robbery. In 2008, he was sentenced to another four years -- to be served consecutively -- for punching a prison guard.Two days after Clements was killed, Ebel died in northern Texas in a gun battle with authorities that left a sheriff's deputy wounded.