Story highlights Wounded woman searches for her personal hero, TylerNFL's Joe Andruzzi downplays carrying a victim to triage tentCarlos Arredondo, at the Boston Marathon to honor his late son, helped a man surviveDr. Vivek Shah was finishing the race; he and other medical professionals rushed to help"Moments like these, terrible as they are, don't show our weakness; they show our strength." These words were spoken by Suffolk County, Massachusetts, District Attorney Dan Conley after Monday's terror attack in Boston.A day later, signs of that strength are seen in the stories of people -- you might call them heroes -- who were near the Boston Marathon finish line when two bombs exploded seconds apart.Honoring a sonCarlos Arredondo's story began nearly nine years ago, when he doused himself with gasoline and used a welder's torch to set his body on fire. Arredondo, a Costa Rican immigrant living in Florida, had just been told his 20-year-old son, Marine Lance Cpl. Alexander Arredondo, was killed in combat in Iraq.Arredondo initially thought the three Marines pulling up to his home were bringing his son to surprise him on his 44th birthday.Arredondo, now 52, recovered from his burns and became a peace activist, traveling the United States with a coffin filled with his son's possessions. This journey brought him to the marathon finish line to watch someone who was running in honor of his son.JUST WATCHED Man in cowboy hat helps injured Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man in cowboy hat helps injured 01:24JUST WATCHED Doctor: The worst thing I've ever seen Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Doctor: The worst thing I've ever seen 03:11JUST WATCHED Boston doctor: 'Everyone was my patient' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boston doctor: 'Everyone was my patient' 03:19JUST WATCHED Video, DNA will help bomb investigation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video, DNA will help bomb investigation 01:52Arredondo handed out American flags to spectators. He wore two buttons on his shirt with photographs of Alexander and his other son, who committed suicide at age 24.What happened next could have been a scene familiar to his Marine son: A bomb exploded. Arredondo is seen on video, wearing a cowboy hat, helping National Guard troops, police and firefighters wrestle a fence open to allow emergency responders to reach the dozens of wounded people bleeding on the Boston sidewalk.Once there, Arredondo found a young man -- perhaps the age of his son -- bleeding from serious leg wounds."I just concentrated on that young man and tied him up, his legs, and talked to him," Arredondo said, his hands trembling, in a video posted on YouTube.He used part of his clothing to make a tourniquet to slow the blood loss from the man's severed artery."He was conscious," Arredondo said. "I let him know the ambulance is on the way, that it's OK."When paramedics arrived, Arredondo helped put the man in a wheelchair. A news photo that has become an iconic image of the tragedy shows Arredondo, his hands covered in blood, running alongside as the man is rushed to an ambulance."There were so many people who lay next to me begging me for help, begging me for help, but I only can help one at a time," he said. "So I just helped that young man."The man told Arredondo his name, but he couldn't remember it later.Hours later, he still held on to an American flag, now stained with blood.Running to helpDr. Vivek Shah was 25 yards away from finishing the 26.2-mile run when the first bomb exploded to his left. He wasn't sure "whether it was the fireworks gone bad or something that was supposed to happen," Shah said Tuesday."Then, after the second explosion went off, we knew something was wrong because all of the spectators and fans started running away from us," Shah said.Shah's story represents the heroism of many other medical professionals who were close by when the terror began: doctors, nurses and paramedics who were running, spectators in the stands or waiting at the finish line to treat exhausted runners.Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured man is loaded into an ambulance after two bombs went off near the finish line of the Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013. Three people were killed and at least 264 were injured. Hide Caption 1 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man comforts a victim on the sidewalk at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 2 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The second explosion goes off near the finish line. Hide Caption 3 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The first explosion knocked down 78-year-old runner Bill Iffrig at the finish line. He got up a few minutes later and finished the race. Hide Caption 4 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner embraces another woman on the marathon route near Kenmore Square. Hide Caption 5 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Former New England Patriots offensive lineman Joe Andruzzi carries a woman from the scene. Hide Caption 6 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A victim of the first explosion is helped on the sidewalk of Boylston Street. Hide Caption 7 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured person is taken away from the scene in a wheelchair. Hide Caption 8 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A woman kneels and prays at near the finish line. Hide Caption 9 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon People run down Exeter Street after the blasts. Hide Caption 10 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The explosions occurred around 2:45 p.m., about an hour after the first of the race's nearly 27,000 runners had crossed the finish line. Hide Caption 11 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Victims lie on the ground at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 12 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A couple runs from the scene pushing a stroller. Hide Caption 13 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner reacts near Kenmore Square after the explosions. Hide Caption 14 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man's blood-stained feet hang outside an ambulance. Hide Caption 15 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A bystander who was injured in the first explosion is wheeled across the finish line while receiving medical attention from rescue workers. Hide Caption 16 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Carlos Arredondo was at the race handing out American flags to spectators. After the blasts, he helped emergency responders and is credited with helping a man survive serious leg wounds. Hide Caption 17 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The second explosion goes off near the finish line. Hide Caption 18 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police look at blown-out windows. The bombs shook buildings, witnesses said, sending people to seek shelter under tables. Hide Caption 19 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Unclaimed runners' bags fill an area near the marathon finish. Hide Caption 20 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Women desperate to hear from loved ones are unable to get close to the site of the attack. Hide Caption 21 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police and runners stand near Kenmore Square after the attack. Hide Caption 22 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Runners gather near Kenmore Square after the explosions. Hide Caption 23 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An EMT worker is transferred to an ambulance outside a medical tent in Copley Square. Hide Caption 24 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A SWAT team arrives on the scene. Hide Caption 25 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner sits near Kenmore Square after the attack. Hide Caption 26 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Runners who had not yet finished the race are stopped after the explosions. Hide Caption 27 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Victims are helped at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 28 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man in tears is helped at the scene on Boylston Street. Hide Caption 29 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Passersby put pressure on a victim's leg to try to stop the bleeding. Hide Caption 30 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Massachusetts State Police guard an area near Kenmore Square. Hide Caption 31 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Bystanders embrace near the finish line. Hide Caption 32 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police officers gather on Newbury Street. Hide Caption 33 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Women and children are escorted away from the scene. Hide Caption 34 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Bomb squad officials check a possible suspicious device near the scene of the blasts. Hide Caption 35 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A woman is comforted after the blasts. Hide Caption 36 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Two injured women are taken away on stretchers. Hide Caption 37 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured woman is loaded into an ambulance. Hide Caption 38 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon First responders load injured people into an ambulance. Hide Caption 39 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured man is prepared to be moved from a stretcher to an ambulance. Hide Caption 40 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured woman is placed on a stretcher. Hide Caption 41 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner is comforted following the attack. Hide Caption 42 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The Cambridge Police Department's bomb squad investigates unattended personal items left behind after the explosions. Hide Caption 43 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Bystanders check their mobile devices for news of the explosions. Hide Caption 44 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A member of the bomb squad investigates a suspicious item on the road near Kenmore Square. Hide Caption 45 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner in a wheelchair is taken from a triage tent after the explosions went off. Hide Caption 46 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon People comfort each near the site of the blasts. Hide Caption 47 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Racers and race officials stand by after the explosions. Hide Caption 48 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Emergency personnel respond to the scene. Hide Caption 49 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police and emergency crews tend to victims. Hide Caption 50 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured woman is carried away on a stretcher. Hide Caption 51 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man lies on the ground after the incident. Hide Caption 52 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Officials watch as the first explosion goes off on Boylston Street. Hide Caption 53 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Spectators leave the bleachers after the explosions. Hide Caption 54 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police inspect one of the blast sites. Hide Caption 55 of 55Photos: Sport events and terror attacks worldwide Photos: Sport events and terror attacks worldwide Sport events and terror attacks worldwide – On April 15, 2013, two bombs exploded in the crowded street near the finish line of the Boston Marathon, killing three people and injuring more than 140 others. It was the latest in a series of terrorist attacks on sporting events going back to the 1970s. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Sport events and terror attacks worldwide Sport events and terror attacks worldwide – The 1972 Munich Olympics is remembered for tragedy, rather than sporting excellence, after 11 Israeli athletes were killed by the Palestinian terrorist group known as Black September. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Sport events and terror attacks worldwide Sport events and terror attacks worldwide – The Olympics were targeted again in 1996 when a bomb at Centennial Park killed one and injured hundreds of others during a free concert in the U.S. city of Atlanta. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Sport events and terror attacks worldwide Sport events and terror attacks worldwide – Between May and July 2006, Iraqi sportspeople were the target of a number of attacks. The 15 members of the Taekwondo team were kidnapped and never seen again, while a national tennis coach and two players were killed following an attack on a sports conference in Baghdad. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Sport events and terror attacks worldwide Sport events and terror attacks worldwide – In April 2008, a suspected Tamil Tiger suicide bomber detonated a device at the start of a marathon celebrating Sri Lanka's New Year. Highways minister Jeyaraj Fernandopulle, former Olympic marathon runner KA Karunaratne and the national athletics coach, Lakshman de Alwis, were among the dozen people killed. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Sport events and terror attacks worldwide Sport events and terror attacks worldwide – New Zealand cricket captain Stephen Fleming was forced to hold back the tears in May 2002, after his team ended its tour of Pakistan when a suicide bomber attacked outside the team's hotel in Karachi. Fourteen people were killed, including 11 French Navy experts, two Pakistanis and the Pakistan team's physiotherapist. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Sport events and terror attacks worldwide Sport events and terror attacks worldwide – Sri Lanka's national cricket team was evacuated by helicopter during its tour to Pakistan in 2009 after seven people were killed when the team bus was attacked in Lahore. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Sport events and terror attacks worldwide Sport events and terror attacks worldwide – Three people were killed and nine were injured when the Togo football team bus was ambushed in Angola before the 2010 Africa Cup of Nations. Rebels used machine guns on the vehicle as it traveled from the Democratic Republic of Congo into Angola's oil-rich region of Cabinda. Hide Caption 8 of 8JUST WATCHED Fleischer: Obama's response was right Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fleischer: Obama's response was right 03:30JUST WATCHED Listen to police radio after the bombing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Listen to police radio after the bombing 01:12"My whole family was on that side where the explosions had gone off," Shah said. "So I started running towards where the bombs had gone off to check on my family and see if there was anything I could do to help."What he found on the sidewalk was beyond anything he's seen as an orthopedic surgeon."It's nothing that you can ever describe," he said. "In all of my medical training, I've never seen anything like the amount of trauma I saw yesterday on the sidewalk there."When Shah reached the wounded, he was not alone. "By the time I got there, there were so many first responders and volunteer physicians," he said. "I've never seen anything like it in terms of the quickness of the response to that tragedy."Time is vital in saving lives, according to CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta. Doctors call the first 60 minutes the "golden hour" in trauma response, he said.Within the first 15 minutes, 15 patients were at Brigham and Women's Hospital, a Level I trauma center, Gupta said. Seven operating rooms were immediately cleared for the nine patients needing surgery, he said.Already a heroJoe Andruzzi could be called a hero even before Monday. The former New England Patriots lineman helps children with brain cancer and their families pay for their treatments through his foundation. The Joe Andruzzi Foundation had a team of runners in the Boston Marathon to raise money to help more patients.Andruzzi, who was near the finish line when the bombs exploded, rushed to help, along with many others. When football fans recognized him in photos, carrying a wounded woman to a triage tent, Andruzzi was quick to downplay his role."While I appreciate the interest in hearing our perspective on today's horrific events, the spotlight should remain firmly on the countless individuals -- first responders, medics, EMTs, runners who crossed the finish line and kept on running straight to give blood, and the countless civilians who did whatever they could to save lives," he said in a statement Monday. "They were the true heroes. Our thoughts and prayers go out to all those affected by this senseless tragedy."Andruzzi knows heroes. His brothers were New York firefighters involved in the September 11, 2001, World Trade Center attack.Anonymous heroA Northeastern University student seriously wounded by shrapnel from the first blast is searching for her personal hero, a man she knows only as Tyler. Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick is helping the woman, whom he met at Tufts Medical Center, to find Tyler.Victoria -- he didn't give her last name -- was scared and, "as she described it, hysterical" when a firefighter carried her to the medical tent near the finish line, Patrick said at a news conference Tuesday."There was a person who helped calm her down, who described himself as an Army sergeant, an Afghanistan vet," Patrick said. "I don't know whether he was assigned to medical tent or, like so many people there and elsewhere in the commonwealth, just jumped in to help."Tyler helped Victoria in a way few people could."One of things he said to her to calm her down was to show her his own shrapnel wound or scar from ... when he was in Afghanistan," he said.An ambulance took Victoria to Tufts Medical Center, but her memory of Tyler followed."Victoria very, very much wants to thank Tyler personally," Patrick said. "So, if Tyler is out there and listening or reading your reports, we would love to hear from Tyler so that we can connect him to Victoria."Call the governor's office, Tyler. The number is 617-725-4000.