Story highlights Two more fatalities have been identified, bringing number of dead to 14Firefighters and emergency responders are among those deadSmall town of West -- population 2,800 -- grapples with lossTwo days after a massive fertilizer plant explosion leveled parts of a central Texas town, killing 14 people and displacing many more, residents moved into recovery mode Friday after investigators announced they had nearly finished search and rescue efforts.The fiery explosion ripped through the heart of West, a close-knit town about 75 miles south of Dallas and about 20 miles north of Waco. Before Wednesday, West was known as the home of Scott Podsednik of the Boston Red Sox and as the " Czech heritage capital of Texas ," boasting the best kolache in the state."It's going to be a long recovery for this community," Gov. Rick Perry said.The death toll included the city secretary, who was also a member of the volunteer fire department, said Mayor Tommy Muska. The victim was the only person with the password to the city's Facebook account, Muska said, preventing others from posting updates about the incident.In total, five West firefighters died battling the blaze, along with one Dallas firefighter and four emergency responders, the State Firemen's and Fire Marshals' Association of Texas said Thursday."It's devastating. I've been a member of the firefighters for 26 years," Muska said. "These guys are my friends."Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – U.S. President Barack Obama attends a memorial service at Baylor University in Waco, Texas, on April 25. The memorial was held for those killed in the blast at a Texas fertilizer plant. Fourteen people, nearly all first responders, died in an explosion at the West Fertilizer Co. on April 17. See photos from the explosion. Hide Caption 1 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Photos of the fallen firefighters stand next to their coffins at the memorial on April 25. Hide Caption 2 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Mourners at the memorial on April 25. Hide Caption 3 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Coffins containing the remains of victims from the fertilizer plant explosion in the town of West, Texas, at a memorial on April 25. Hide Caption 4 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A firefighters honor guard stands before the coffins of fallen comrades on April 25. Hide Caption 5 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Firefighters salute as fire trucks and emergency vehicles pass under a flag before the memorial service on April 25. Hide Caption 6 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Firefighters lead the funeral procession for Capt. Kenneth "Luckey" Harris Jr. on Thursday, April 24, in West, Texas. Hide Caption 7 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Firefighters stand on the back of a firetruck that transported Harris' body to the Bold Springs Cemetery in West on April 24. Hide Caption 8 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Family and friends stand in front of Harris' casket at the cemetery on April 24. Hide Caption 9 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A bugler plays taps at a memorial ceremony at the site of the explosion in West on April 24. Hide Caption 10 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Pallbearers carry the casket of fallen firefighter Capt. Kenneth "Luckey" Harris Jr. after his funeral at St. Mary's Catholic Church of the Assumption in West, Texas, on April 24. Hide Caption 11 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A memorial is set up on Monday, April 22, outside a fire station for the firemen who perished in the explosion. Hide Caption 12 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Flowers are tied on a firetruck on April 22 as a memorial for the firemen who died while responding to the explosion. Hide Caption 13 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Vanna Wainwright and her daughter Breanna take part in an open air Sunday service on April 21. Members of the First Baptist Church held their service in an open air field after their church was damaged from the explosion. Hide Caption 14 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Local residents attend a commemoration ceremony on April 21 for those that perished during the fertilizer explosion. Hide Caption 15 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Local residents attend a ceremony in West, Texas, on April 21. Hide Caption 16 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents embrace after a Sunday service at St. Mary's Catholic Church on April 21, four days after the deadly explosion. Hide Caption 17 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents collect donations on Saturday, April 20. Hide Caption 18 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A candlelight vigil is held at St. Mary's Catholic Church in West, Texas, on Thursday, April 18. Hide Caption 19 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Eric Garcia, 12, cries during a candlelight vigil in West, Texas, honoring the victims of the explosion on April 18. More than 200 people were injured and 50 homes destroyed in the small town. Hide Caption 20 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns – People gather for a candlelight vigil at a church in West on April 18. Hide Caption 21 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents tend a prayer service at St. Mary's. Hide Caption 22 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A girl closes her eyes during the vigil. Hide Caption 23 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A young mourner is comforted during the vigil on April 18. Hide Caption 24 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – People pray during a candlelight vigil at St. Mary's Church on April 18. Hide Caption 25 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents embrace after taking part in the vigil. Hide Caption 26 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A woman clasps her hands during the candlelight vigil on April 18. Hide Caption 27 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A young man holds a candle during the vigil. Hide Caption 28 of 28The explosion tore through the roof of West Fertilizer Co., charring much of the structure and sending massive flames into the air.Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Forensic mappers work the crater at the site of a fire and explosion in West, Texas, on April 24, 2013. The West Fertilizer Co. plant in the small Texas town exploded days earlier on April 17, killing 15 people. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives search the bank of rail tracks for evidence at the site of the explosion. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Search and rescue workers comb through what remains of a 50-unit apartment building, in foreground, and a nursing home on April 18, 2013. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – The remains of an apartment complex lie on cars. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A deer head mount sits inside a car parked next to an apartment complex damaged in the explosion. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A Valley Mills Fire Department firefighter walks through the remains of an apartment complex next to the fertilizer plant. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Smoke rises from the rubble of a house next to the fertilizer plant. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A railroad boxcar lies on its side near the plant. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A Texas State Trooper stops people from entering a neighborhood near the plant. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A chimney is the only part of a home left standing after the explosion. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Brandon Smith removes broken glass from the West Thrift Shop. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Search and rescue workers comb through what remains of a 50-unit apartment building. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – The West Fertilizer Co. lies in ruins. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A sheriff's deputy comforts a woman at a command post. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Remains of the fertilizer plant burn in the early morning after the explosion. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Water is sprayed on the remains of the plant. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – With smoke rising in the distance, a law enforcement officer runs a checkpoint at the perimeter about half a mile from the plant. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Waco Police spokesman William Swanton speaks to reporters about the explosion. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Glass from blown-out windows lies shattered on the sidewalk and street after the blast. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Shattered glass covers items in front of a thrift store. Hide Caption 20 of 20JUST WATCHED EMS director: We cry together Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH EMS director: We cry together 04:11JUST WATCHED Texas town deals with blast tragedy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Texas town deals with blast tragedy 02:40JUST WATCHED Survivor: Just thank guardian angels Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Survivor: Just thank guardian angels 03:23JUST WATCHED Couple saved nursing home residents Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Couple saved nursing home residents 03:58Muska rushed to the scene to assist in crowd control about 1.5 blocks from the plant. The explosion, which registered as a 2.1-magnitude earthquake , blew his hat off, he said.It also destroyed his home, he said, making him one of many in the small town of 2,800 to be displaced in the blast's aftermath. Many, including him, are staying in hotels or with friends, he said.The destruction made it hard to account for exactly how many people had been displaced, McLennan County Judge Scott Felton said Friday. He estimated that 99% of people originally thought to be missing had been accounted for.Felton and Muska joined Perry in thanking volunteers from across the state who came to assist in cleanup. They also expressed gratitude for donations of food and clothes, but said they were running out of places to store them and asked that people instead donate money through the Red Cross and Salvation Army."We've hit the saturation point on receiving stuff, clothes, food, those kind of things, and we're running out of places to put it," Felton said.It's still unclear what caused the blast, which Brad Smith felt in his home 50 miles away."We didn't know exactly what it was," Smith said. "The forecast said a line of thunderstorms was going to come through. My wife and I looked up and wondered, 'Did it get here six hours early?' "Local authorities are still working with federal officials, including the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, to determine the cause of the deadly explosion, Perry said.It's unclear whether the plant had safety problems. In 2006, the Environmental Protection Agency fined the company that ran the fertilizer plant $2,300 and told the owners to correct problems that included a failure to file a risk management program plan on time.Seven years ago, the company had a complaint against it for a lingering smell of ammonia, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality website shows.JUST WATCHED Paramedic: Town became war zone Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Paramedic: Town became war zone 07:41JUST WATCHED West, Texas explosion caught on camera Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH West, Texas explosion caught on camera 01:52JUST WATCHED Family's house destroyed in Texas blast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Family's house destroyed in Texas blast 02:25JUST WATCHED How the Texas explosion unfolded Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How the Texas explosion unfolded 01:48The blast came as the nation remained on edge after the Boston Marathon bombing on Monday that killed three and left about 180 injured. It happened two days before Friday's 20th anniversary of a fire in Waco that ended a federal agents' siege against members of the Branch Davidian sect. More than 80 sect members and some federal agents died.What's clear, though, is the blast stunned residents of this town and left behind a trail of charred devastation.Perry surveyed the scene from a helicopter and on the ground."We are blessed we didn't lose more people than we actually did," he said.