Story highlights Handguns, rifle and at least six bombs were at shootout scene, police chief saysA single officer first encountered the brothers, who were in two cars, the chief saysThey jumped out immediately and started shooting, then threw a bomb, he saysThe device turned out to be a pressure cooker bomb, the chief saysHandguns, a rifle and at least six bombs -- three of which exploded -- were found at the scene early Friday after officers first confronted the two Boston Marathon bombing suspects in the darkness of a residential street, the Watertown, Massachusetts, police chief said Saturday in an interview with CNN's Wolf Blitzer.A single officer was the first to encounter the two cars that Tamerlan and Dzhokar Tsarnaev were driving, just before 1 a.m. Friday, Chief Edward Deveau said. One of the vehicles was a Mercedes sport utility vehicle the brothers carjacked earlier that night, he said.The chase that ensued eventually led to David Henneberry's backyard, where Dzhokar Tsarnaev had hidden on the floor of Henneberry's boat. Tsarnaev was taken into custody at about 8:45 p.m. Friday evening.But more than 19 hours earlier, the odyssey was still in its early stages. Before the officer could get backup, the two cars stopped, and the brothers got out."They jump out of the car and unload on our police officer," Deveau said "They both came out shooting -- shooting guns, handguns. He's under direct fire, very close by. He has to jam it in reverse and try to get himself a little distance."Five other police officers, including two who had just finished their shifts, then arrived at what Deveau called a "very tight area" in the middle of an intense shootout.JUST WATCHED The long night of terror comes to an end Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The long night of terror comes to an end 02:06Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Dias Kadyrbayev, left, with Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsamaev in a picture taken from the social media site VK.com. Kadyrbayev is expected to plead guilty August 21 to charges in connection with removing a backpack and computer from Tsamaev's dorm room after the April 2013 bombing, according to a defense lawyer. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed during the shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19, 2013. He is pictured here at the 2010 New England Golden Gloves. Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was captured in a Boston suburb on April 19, 2013, after a manhunt that shut down the city. In July, he pleaded not guilty to killing four people and wounding more than 200. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – From left, Azamat Tazhayakov and Dias Kadyrbayev went with Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to Times Square in this photo taken from the social media site VK.com. A federal grand jury charged Tazhayakov and Kadyrbayev with obstructing justice and conspiracy to obstruct justice relating to the removal of a backpack from Tsarnaev's dorm room after the bombings. Tazhayakov was convicted of conspiracy and obstruction charges in July 2014. He faces up to 25 years in prison at his sentencing in October. He has filed an appeal. Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Robel Phillipos, a U.S. citizen, was also arrested on May 1, 2013 . He was charged with lying to federal agents about the bombing, according to court papers. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Phillipos, Tazhayakov and Kadyrbayev are accused of removing items from Tsarnaev's dorm room after the bombings on April 15, 2013. The items they took included a backpack containing fireworks that had been "opened and emptied of powder," according to the affidavit. Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The FBI released photos and video on April 18, 2013, of two men identified as Suspect 1 and Suspect 2 in the deadly bombings at the Boston Marathon. They were later identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, and his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26. Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Boston Police released surveillance images of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev at a convenience store on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The FBI tweeted this photo on April 19, 2013, and urged Watertown residents to stay indoors as they searched for the second suspect. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The FBI released photos and video on April 18, 2013, of two men it called suspects in the deadly bombings and pleaded for public help in identifying them. The men were photographed walking together near the finish line. Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – A man identified as Suspect 2 appeared in this photograph by bystander David Green, who took the photo after completing the Boston Marathon. Green submitted the photo to the FBI, he told Piers Morgan in an interview. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The man identified as Suspect 2 appears in a tighter crop of David Green's photo. Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Authorities later identified Suspect 1 as Tamerlan Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 was identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 1 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 1 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 1 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Both suspects are seen walking through the crowd. Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – A photo released by the FBI highlights Suspect 2. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – A photo released by the FBI highlights Suspect 2. Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 walks through the crowd. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 23 of 23Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is detained by officers on Friday, April 19. After a car chase and shootout with police, one suspect in the Boston Marathon bombing, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, was shot and killed by police early Friday, and his brother and second suspect, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, was taken into custody Friday night. The two men are suspects in the bombings at the Boston Marathon on April 15, that killed three people and wounded at least 170. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Special imaging techniques employed by Massachusetts State Police reveal Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding in a boat in a backyard in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Dzhokhar Tsarnaev gets out of the boat he was hiding in outside of a home in Watertown, as seen in a surveillance video still. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – An ambulance carries Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, from the scene after he was apprehended in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police SWAT teams leave the area after apprehending the suspect in a yard where he was hiding in a dry-docked boat on April 19. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Residents flee from an area where a suspect was hiding on Franklin Street on April 19. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT team members run toward a police assault on a house as gunfire erupts on April 19. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – People react while watching police respond to reported gunfire on April 19. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT team members move down residential streets as they perform door-to-door searches in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A U.S. military helicopter lands behind Watertown Mall as law enforcement agencies continue to search for the 19-year-old bombing suspect on Friday. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams prepare to enter a home as they continue the door-to-door search. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – U.S. President Barack Obama meets with members of his national security team in the Situation Room of the White House on April 19 to discuss developments in the Boston bombings investigation. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT team members line a residential street in Watertown, Massachusetts, as the manhunt continues on Friday. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A man watches from the window of a home as a SWAT team member keeps watch on Friday, in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police to continue to the door-to-door search on Francis Street in Watertown, Massachusetts, on Friday. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Law enforcement officers place themselves in an overhead position on Arsenal Street as the search continues on April 19. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Law enforcement officers react to what was initially thought to be a threatening suspect on Arsenal Street on April 19. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A police SWAT team searches houses on April 19 for the second suspect. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams searches homes along Winsor Avenue in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Massachusetts state trooper watches other troopers line up at Watertown Mall as the manhunt for the second suspect continues in Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police continue the ongoing manhunt for the second suspect on Williow Avenue in Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Watertown police vehicle with bullet holes in its body and a shattered windshield is towed out of the search area on April 19 in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Massachusetts State Police officer checks the bag of a cyclist amid heightened security on Friday in Watertown. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Katia Costa looks out her window as police continue the manhunt on Nichols Avenue in Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Ruslan Tsarni, uncle of the Boston terror suspects, told CNN affiliate WBZ that Tamerlan "got what he deserved" in an interview outside his home in Montgomery Village, Maryland, on Friday. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A woman is questioned by Cambridge police and other law enforcement agencies Friday near the home of the second suspect in Cambridge, Massachusetts. A Massachusetts Institute of Technology campus police officer was shot and killed late Thursday night at the school's campus in Cambridge. A short time later, police reported exchanging gunfire with alleged carjackers in nearby Watertown. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams move into position at the intersection of Nichols and Melendy avenues in Watertown, Massachusetts, on Friday. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams gather at the intersection of Nichols and Melendy avenues in Watertown while searching for the remaining suspect on Friday. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Onlookers take pictures while SWAT team members look around on Friday. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick, left, speaks to the media at a shopping mall on the perimeter of a locked-down area during the search on Friday. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Metro SWAT members hang off the back of a truck during the search on Friday. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT officers check a door with guns ready on Friday. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Officers patrol Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers – The aftermath of the shootout that police said involved the two suspects in Watertown early Friday. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police with guns drawn search for a suspect on Friday in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A police officer runs with his gun drawn on Friday. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston Police gather in the parking lot in front of a Best Buy store near the Watertown Mall on Friday. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis speaks during a media briefing in the parking lot of the Watertown Mall on Friday. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston police gather in front of a Best Buy on Friday. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police stop cars at School and Walnut streets on Friday. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Massachusetts state trooper checks a building along Mount Auburn Street as police search neighborhoods in Watertown. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police search neighborhoods yard by yard on Friday. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police convene on School and Walnut streets on Friday. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A police officer talks to a driver at a checkpoint in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police officers keep a man on the ground in Watertown on Friday. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 45 of 45JUST WATCHED Tracing the suspected bombers' roots Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tracing the suspected bombers' roots 03:26"We estimate there was over 200 shots fired in a five- to 10-minute period," Deveau said.One of the brothers threw an explosive at the officers. They later discovered it was a pressure cooker bomb, similar to the ones used at the marathon Monday, the chief said."We find the pressure cooker embedded in the car down the street, so there's a major explosion during this gunfight (with) my officers -- six of my officers that I'm extremely proud of," Deveau said.The brothers also allegedly threw other explosives at the officers. "They were lighting them and throwing them," Deveau said, adding they were "very rough devices."Two exploded and two did not. Police later found a sixth explosive in one of the cars.At one point, the older brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, came directly toward police, Deveau said."He all of a sudden comes out from under cover and just starts walking down the street, shooting at our police officers, trying to get closer," Deveau said. "Now, my closest officer is five to 10 feet away, and they're exchanging gunfire between them. And he runs out of ammunition -- the bad guy -- and so one of my police officers comes off the side and tackles him in the street."We're trying to get him handcuffed. There's two or three police officers handcuffing him in the street -- the older brother. At the same time, at the last minute -- they obviously have tunnel vision, it's a very, very stressful situation -- one of them yells out, 'Look out!' and here comes the black SUV, the carjacked car, directly at them. They dive out of the way, and he (the younger brother) drives over his brother and drags him a short distance down the street."Tamerlan Tsarnaev was later pronounced dead at the hospital. Officers then saw that a transit police officer who arrived after the first five was shot in the groin during the firefight.The younger brother drove off amid more gunfire, Deveau said. He got two or three streets away, with officers in pursuit, then dumped the car and ran into the darkness, he said.Two police officers tended to their wounded colleague, who had serious bleeding.JUST WATCHED Marathoner dedicates win to Boston Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Marathoner dedicates win to Boston 02:06JUST WATCHED The week that changed Boston forever Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The week that changed Boston forever 06:07JUST WATCHED Solidarity with Boston in Bethlehem Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Solidarity with Boston in Bethlehem 03:00"They just deserve all kinds of credit for saving that gentleman's life up until this point," said Deveau, who didn't name the wounded officer. "Our prayers are still with him and the family, because he's still in a tough way. He lost a lot of blood at the scene there, but we hope he can make a recovery."It was the fatal shooting of another officer that kicked off the series of events late Thursday night. Sean Collier, a campus police officer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, was responding to a loud disturbance call when one of the brothers shot him in his cruiser, Deveau said.From there, the brothers allegedly carjacked the Mercedes, forcing the driver to withdraw money from an ATM. They eventually let the victim go, but not before telling him they were responsible for both the marathon bombings and the police officer's death, Deveau said.Luckily for law enforcement, the victim's cell phone remained in the SUV, allowing police to determine the vehicle was in Watertown and eventually catch up to it.The manhunt for Dzhokar Tsarnaev lasted all day Friday and brought much of Boston to a standstill. Then, in the evening, authorities finally got a tip: A Watertown man told police someone was hiding in his boat in the backyard, bleeding. It turned out to be their suspect, Deveau said."At that point, we had a couple of thousand police officers on the scene. The turnout was just incredible," he said.A thermal image photograph indicated that a person -- identified by police as Tsarnaev -- was lying in the center of the boat.Officers could see Tsarnaev poking through the tarp covering the boat, and then a gunfire erupted, Deveau said. Police used "flash-bangs," devices meant to stun people with a loud noise, and started 20 to 30 minutes of negotiation with Tsarnaev.Police had no idea whether he had weapons or explosives with him, so they repeatedly told him to stand up and lift his shirt to show he wasn't wearing a device, Deveau said.An FBI negotiator was on the second floor of the house looking down at the boat, but he couldn't see Tsarnaev under the tarp. A state police helicopter overhead used a heat sensor to determine that Tsarnaev was alive and moving, Deveau said."At that point, once we saw that, we felt comfortable enough to send some officer tactical equipment to grab him and pull him away from the boat," Deveau said. "He needed first aid, so he was transported by ambulance into a Boston hospital."Investigators are still combing through all the crime scenes, including the boat, so Deveau said he didn't have details yet on what items Tsarnaev may have had with him when he was captured. And they still don't know where the brothers allegedly got the weapons, explosives and know-how.Police are confident, however, that there are no other suspects, Deveau said."From what I know right now, these two acted together and alone," he said. "As far as this little cell and this little group, I think we got our guys."