Story highlights John Kerry checks in with his daughter, who has run the marathon in the pastCanada's prime minister laments an "inspiring event clouded by senseless violence"Police from Miami to Los Angeles on heightened alert; off-duty Boston cops called inLondon police say they are reviewing security for the city's marathon on SundayAs the horror of explosions near the finish line of the nation's most famous marathon sank in, government officials mobilized to respond on Monday afternoon.FBI director Robert Mueller briefed President Barack Obama by telephone, the White House said.All off duty-police officers in Boston were told to report to their districts, CNN affiliate WHDH reported , and the Red Cross sent additional blood products to Boston-area hospitals, spokeswoman Anne Marie Borrego said.Aviation authorities banned planes from flying over of the site of the explosion, the Federal Aviation Administration said. The temporary flight restriction came at the request of law enforcement and originally extended three nautical miles in all directions before being reduced to two. It reaches up to a height of 3,000 feet, FAA spokeswoman Arlene Salac said.The agency ordered a brief ground stop at Boston's Logan airport but it did not last long.Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured man is loaded into an ambulance after two bombs went off near the finish line of the Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013. Three people were killed and at least 264 were injured. Hide Caption 1 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man comforts a victim on the sidewalk at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 2 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The second explosion goes off near the finish line. Hide Caption 3 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The first explosion knocked down 78-year-old runner Bill Iffrig at the finish line. He got up a few minutes later and finished the race. Hide Caption 4 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner embraces another woman on the marathon route near Kenmore Square. Hide Caption 5 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Former New England Patriots offensive lineman Joe Andruzzi carries a woman from the scene. Hide Caption 6 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A victim of the first explosion is helped on the sidewalk of Boylston Street. Hide Caption 7 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured person is taken away from the scene in a wheelchair. Hide Caption 8 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A woman kneels and prays at near the finish line. Hide Caption 9 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon People run down Exeter Street after the blasts. Hide Caption 10 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The explosions occurred around 2:45 p.m., about an hour after the first of the race's nearly 27,000 runners had crossed the finish line. Hide Caption 11 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Victims lie on the ground at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 12 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A couple runs from the scene pushing a stroller. Hide Caption 13 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner reacts near Kenmore Square after the explosions. Hide Caption 14 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man's blood-stained feet hang outside an ambulance. Hide Caption 15 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A bystander who was injured in the first explosion is wheeled across the finish line while receiving medical attention from rescue workers. Hide Caption 16 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Carlos Arredondo was at the race handing out American flags to spectators. After the blasts, he helped emergency responders and is credited with helping a man survive serious leg wounds. Hide Caption 17 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The second explosion goes off near the finish line. Hide Caption 18 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police look at blown-out windows. The bombs shook buildings, witnesses said, sending people to seek shelter under tables. Hide Caption 19 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Unclaimed runners' bags fill an area near the marathon finish. Hide Caption 20 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Women desperate to hear from loved ones are unable to get close to the site of the attack. Hide Caption 21 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police and runners stand near Kenmore Square after the attack. Hide Caption 22 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Runners gather near Kenmore Square after the explosions. Hide Caption 23 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An EMT worker is transferred to an ambulance outside a medical tent in Copley Square. Hide Caption 24 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A SWAT team arrives on the scene. Hide Caption 25 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner sits near Kenmore Square after the attack. Hide Caption 26 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Runners who had not yet finished the race are stopped after the explosions. Hide Caption 27 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Victims are helped at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 28 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man in tears is helped at the scene on Boylston Street. Hide Caption 29 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Passersby put pressure on a victim's leg to try to stop the bleeding. Hide Caption 30 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Massachusetts State Police guard an area near Kenmore Square. Hide Caption 31 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Bystanders embrace near the finish line. Hide Caption 32 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police officers gather on Newbury Street. Hide Caption 33 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Women and children are escorted away from the scene. Hide Caption 34 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Bomb squad officials check a possible suspicious device near the scene of the blasts. Hide Caption 35 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A woman is comforted after the blasts. Hide Caption 36 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Two injured women are taken away on stretchers. Hide Caption 37 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured woman is loaded into an ambulance. Hide Caption 38 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon First responders load injured people into an ambulance. Hide Caption 39 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured man is prepared to be moved from a stretcher to an ambulance. Hide Caption 40 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured woman is placed on a stretcher. Hide Caption 41 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner is comforted following the attack. Hide Caption 42 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon The Cambridge Police Department's bomb squad investigates unattended personal items left behind after the explosions. Hide Caption 43 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Bystanders check their mobile devices for news of the explosions. Hide Caption 44 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A member of the bomb squad investigates a suspicious item on the road near Kenmore Square. Hide Caption 45 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A runner in a wheelchair is taken from a triage tent after the explosions went off. Hide Caption 46 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon People comfort each near the site of the blasts. Hide Caption 47 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Racers and race officials stand by after the explosions. Hide Caption 48 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Emergency personnel respond to the scene. Hide Caption 49 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police and emergency crews tend to victims. Hide Caption 50 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon An injured woman is carried away on a stretcher. Hide Caption 51 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon A man lies on the ground after the incident. Hide Caption 52 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Officials watch as the first explosion goes off on Boylston Street. Hide Caption 53 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Spectators leave the bleachers after the explosions. Hide Caption 54 of 55 Photos: Deadly attack at Boston Marathon Police inspect one of the blast sites. Hide Caption 55 of 55JUST WATCHED Terror attack disrupts Boston Marathon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Terror attack disrupts Boston Marathon 02:09JUST WATCHED Obama: We will get to the bottom of this Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama: We will get to the bottom of this 03:04JUST WATCHED White House area on lockdown after blasts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH White House area on lockdown after blasts 01:27And law enforcement authorities from Atlanta to San Francisco and Seattle said they were on heightened alert.New York's Mayor Michael Bloomberg said the city had 1,000 officers assigned to counterterrorism duties, "and they -- along with the entire NYPD and the investments we have made in counterterrorism infrastructure -- are being fully mobilized to protect our city."In Miami, police said they were increasing security at critical infrastructure sites, while the Los Angeles Police Department restated its advice to the public: "If you see something, say something."Secretary of State John Kerry -- a former Massachusetts senator with deep ties to Boston -- found out about the blasts when he was on his way to Chicago on his way home from a 10-day foreign trip, and called his daughter Vanessa, who has run the Boston Marathon in the past, a senior State Department official said.Kerry himself often fires the starting gun for the wheelchair race at the marathon.Attorney General Eric Holder instructed the Justice Department to deploy its "full resources" to the investigation into the blasts that killed at least two people and left dozens injured.He spoke to FBI director Mueller, and to the U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts, Carmen Ortiz. Her office is coordinating responses from the Justice Department, the FBI, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and other law enforcement officials.Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano was briefed, and she ordered her department to provide "whatever assistance is necessary" to state and local authorities, an administration official said.The House of Representatives announced it would hold a minute's silence to honor the victims of the explosions.London's Metropolitan Police said they were reviewing security arrangements for the London Marathon, which is due to take place on Sunday.The race's chief executive, Nick Bitel, said organizers were "deeply saddened and shocked," and called it "a very sad day for athletics and for our friends and colleagues in marathon running."British Foreign Secretary William Hague said he was "appalled" by the explosion, while Canada's Prime Minister Stephen Harper said: "It is truly a sad day when an event as inspiring as the Boston Marathon is clouded by such senseless violence."Major League Baseball senior public relations executive Pat Courtney said the League's "thoughts and prayers are with everyone affected by this horrible occurrence."The Red Sox were playing in Boston on Monday but the game was over before the terror attack.