Story highlights "I won't stand for someone mocking the tragic deaths," Perry saysCartoonist says he stands by his workThe cartoon was published the same day as the memorial for victimsTexas Gov. Rick Perry is demanding an apology from a California newspaper that published a cartoon that seemed to link his push for less regulations to the recent fertilizer plant explosion that killed 14."The Sacramento Bee published a disgusting 'cartoon' mocking the deadly explosion in West. While I will always welcome healthy policy debate, I won't stand for someone mocking the tragic deaths of my fellow Texans and our fellow Americans. I have written the editor and asked that they apologize to the citizens of West," Perry wrote on his official Facebook page."Jack Ohman's cartoon of April 25 made a strong statement about Gov. Rick Perry's disregard for worker safety, and his attempts to market Texas as a place where industries can thrive with few regulations," said Stuart Leavenworth, the paper's editorial page editor. "It is unfortunate that Gov. Perry, and some on the blogosphere, have attempted to interpret the cartoon as being disrespectful of the victims of this tragedy."Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – U.S. President Barack Obama attends a memorial service at Baylor University in Waco, Texas, on April 25. The memorial was held for those killed in the blast at a Texas fertilizer plant. Fourteen people, nearly all first responders, died in an explosion at the West Fertilizer Co. on April 17. See photos from the explosion. Hide Caption 1 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Photos of the fallen firefighters stand next to their coffins at the memorial on April 25. Hide Caption 2 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Mourners at the memorial on April 25. Hide Caption 3 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Coffins containing the remains of victims from the fertilizer plant explosion in the town of West, Texas, at a memorial on April 25. Hide Caption 4 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A firefighters honor guard stands before the coffins of fallen comrades on April 25. Hide Caption 5 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Firefighters salute as fire trucks and emergency vehicles pass under a flag before the memorial service on April 25. Hide Caption 6 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Firefighters lead the funeral procession for Capt. Kenneth "Luckey" Harris Jr. on Thursday, April 24, in West, Texas. Hide Caption 7 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Firefighters stand on the back of a firetruck that transported Harris' body to the Bold Springs Cemetery in West on April 24. Hide Caption 8 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Family and friends stand in front of Harris' casket at the cemetery on April 24. Hide Caption 9 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A bugler plays taps at a memorial ceremony at the site of the explosion in West on April 24. Hide Caption 10 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Pallbearers carry the casket of fallen firefighter Capt. Kenneth "Luckey" Harris Jr. after his funeral at St. Mary's Catholic Church of the Assumption in West, Texas, on April 24. Hide Caption 11 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A memorial is set up on Monday, April 22, outside a fire station for the firemen who perished in the explosion. Hide Caption 12 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Flowers are tied on a firetruck on April 22 as a memorial for the firemen who died while responding to the explosion. Hide Caption 13 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Vanna Wainwright and her daughter Breanna take part in an open air Sunday service on April 21. Members of the First Baptist Church held their service in an open air field after their church was damaged from the explosion. Hide Caption 14 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Local residents attend a commemoration ceremony on April 21 for those that perished during the fertilizer explosion. Hide Caption 15 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Local residents attend a ceremony in West, Texas, on April 21. Hide Caption 16 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents embrace after a Sunday service at St. Mary's Catholic Church on April 21, four days after the deadly explosion. Hide Caption 17 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents collect donations on Saturday, April 20. Hide Caption 18 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A candlelight vigil is held at St. Mary's Catholic Church in West, Texas, on Thursday, April 18. Hide Caption 19 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Eric Garcia, 12, cries during a candlelight vigil in West, Texas, honoring the victims of the explosion on April 18. More than 200 people were injured and 50 homes destroyed in the small town. Hide Caption 20 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns – People gather for a candlelight vigil at a church in West on April 18. Hide Caption 21 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents tend a prayer service at St. Mary's. Hide Caption 22 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A girl closes her eyes during the vigil. Hide Caption 23 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A young mourner is comforted during the vigil on April 18. Hide Caption 24 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – People pray during a candlelight vigil at St. Mary's Church on April 18. Hide Caption 25 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents embrace after taking part in the vigil. Hide Caption 26 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A woman clasps her hands during the candlelight vigil on April 18. Hide Caption 27 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A young man holds a candle during the vigil. Hide Caption 28 of 28Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Forensic mappers work the crater at the site of a fire and explosion in West, Texas, on April 24, 2013. The West Fertilizer Co. plant in the small Texas town exploded days earlier on April 17, killing 15 people. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives search the bank of rail tracks for evidence at the site of the explosion. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Search and rescue workers comb through what remains of a 50-unit apartment building, in foreground, and a nursing home on April 18, 2013. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – The remains of an apartment complex lie on cars. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A deer head mount sits inside a car parked next to an apartment complex damaged in the explosion. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A Valley Mills Fire Department firefighter walks through the remains of an apartment complex next to the fertilizer plant. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Smoke rises from the rubble of a house next to the fertilizer plant. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A railroad boxcar lies on its side near the plant. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A Texas State Trooper stops people from entering a neighborhood near the plant. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A chimney is the only part of a home left standing after the explosion. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Brandon Smith removes broken glass from the West Thrift Shop. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Search and rescue workers comb through what remains of a 50-unit apartment building. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – The West Fertilizer Co. lies in ruins. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A sheriff's deputy comforts a woman at a command post. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Remains of the fertilizer plant burn in the early morning after the explosion. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Water is sprayed on the remains of the plant. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – With smoke rising in the distance, a law enforcement officer runs a checkpoint at the perimeter about half a mile from the plant. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Waco Police spokesman William Swanton speaks to reporters about the explosion. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Glass from blown-out windows lies shattered on the sidewalk and street after the blast. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Shattered glass covers items in front of a thrift store. Hide Caption 20 of 20Editorial Cartoonist Jack Ohman also responded to some reader criticism of his cartoon in a column Thursday."The Texas governor's campaigning notwithstanding, should I have used the explosion as a vehicle to illustrate my point? I did. I stand by it," Ohman wrote.The cartoon, published Thursday, shows Perry standing at a podium in front of signs about lower taxes and lower regulations proclaiming "Business is booming in Texas."The next frame of the cartoon shows a huge explosion alluding to the April 17 fertilizer plant tragedy in West, Texas, that killed 14 people, injured up to 200 and destroyed more than 100 homes.Days after the cartoon was published, it was still drawing mostly negative responses on the Sacramento Bee website.The explosion created a crater nearly 100 feet wide and 10 feet deep, and devastated the small town. Officials are still trying to determine what caused the fire that lead to the explosion.Perry said he was offended the cartoon was published Thursday, the same day the governor, President Barack Obama and many others gathered for a memorial for the victims."Publishing this on the very day our state and nation paused to honor and mourn those who died only compounds the pain and suffering of the many Texans," Perry wrote.