Story highlights Louisville rallies in the second half to defeat Wichita State 72-68The underdog Shockers led for much of the game, only to falter lateCardinals will face Michigan in the NCAA title game on MondayMichigan beat Syracuse 61-56Michigan and Louisville will meet Monday in the NCAA men's basketball championship game in Atlanta after both survived close games Saturday.Michigan was up by 11 points at halftime leading the Syracuse Orange 36-25.But the Orange went on a furious comeback in the second half, getting the game to within three points with a little more than 7 minutes left.The Wolverines handled Syracuse's tough zone defense down the stretch, winning 61-56. Michigan's backcourt of Tim Hardaway Jr. and Trey Burke led the way against Syracuse's pesky defenders.Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Peyton Siva of the Louisville Cardinals goes up for a layup against the Wichita State Shockers on Saturday, April 6, in Atlanta in the first of the day's semifinal matchups in the 2013 NCAA men's basketball tournament. Louisville beat Wichita State with a final score of 72-68. Check out the action from the Final Four and look at the second game between Syracuse and Michigan Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Fred VanVleet of Wichita State looks for a shot against Luke Hancock, left, Peyton Siva, right, and Gorgui Dieng, center, of Louisville. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Head coach Gregg Marshall of Wichita State talks with Malcolm Armstead in the second half. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Luke Hancock of Louisville drives for a shot against Cleanthony Early of Wichita State. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Head coach Rick Pitino of Louisville reacts to a play. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Russ Smith of the Louisville Cardinals drives for a shot in the second half against the Wichita State Shockers. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Ron Baker of Wichita State brings the ball up court against Peyton Siva of Louisville. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Malcolm Armstead of Wichita State, second right, attempts to control the ball against Stephan Van Treese, left, and Peyton Siva, right, of Louisville. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Stephan Van Treese of Louisville blocks a shot against Fred VanVleet of Wichita State. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Cleanthony Early of Wichita State drives against Chane Behanan of Louisville. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Luke Hancock of Louisville drives for a layup attempt against Wichita State's Carl Hall. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Louisville's Luke Hancock attempts to control the ball against Wichita State's Carl Hall. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Luke Hancock, left, and Tim Henderson, right, of Louisville celebrate in the second half. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Russ Smith of the Louisville Cardinals drives for a reverse layup against Hall and Early of Wichita State. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Tim Henderson of Louisville reacts to a play. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Tekele Cotton of Wichita State drives against Gorgui Dieng of Louisville. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Chane Behanan of Louisville, center, reaches for the ball against Cleanthony Early, left, of Wichita State. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Fans of Wichita State support their team at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Cleanthony Early, left, and Carl Hall, right, of Wichita State react in the second half. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Tekele Cotton of the Wichita State Shockers goes up for a shot against Gorgui Dieng of the Louisville Cardinals. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Peyton Siva of Louisville drives for a shot attempt against Fred VanVleet, left, of Wichita State. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Tekele Cotton of Wichita State drives the ball up court in the second half against Russ Smith of Louisville. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Chane Behanan of Louisville, center right, attempts a shot against Carl Hall of Wichita State. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Russ Smith of Louisville attempts a layup. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Ron Baker of Wichita State runs the offense as Peyton Siva defends. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Carl Hall of Wichita State blocks a shot attempt by Russ Smith of Louisville. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Peyton Siva of Louisville reacts in the second half against Wichita State. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Ron Baker of the Wichita State Shockers moves the ball against Peyton Siva of the Louisville Cardinals. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Carl Hall of Wichita State (22) reaches for the ball against (from left) Luke Hancock, Gorgui Dieng, Chane Behanan and Russ Smith of Louisville. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Cleanthony Early of Wichita State dunks against Louisville. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Head coach Gregg Marshall of Wichita State reacts in the first half. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Tens of thousands fill the Georgia Dome in Saturday's first semifinal game, between Louisville and Wichita State. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Fred VanVleet of Wichita State drives with the ball against Russ Smith of Louisville. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Malcolm Armstead of Wichita State, second from right, drives for a shot attempt against Gorgui Dieng, third from right, Louisville. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Russ Smith of Louisville drives for a shot attempt in the first half against Cleanthony Early of Wichita State, right. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Gorgui Dieng of Louisville controls a rebound against Ehimen Orukpe of Wichita State. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Head coach Rick Pitino of Louisville reacts to a call in the first half. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Chane Behanan of Louisville and an unidentified Wichita State player go after a loose ball under the basket. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Russ Smith of Louisville drives for a shot against Cleanthony Early (11), of Wichita State. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Peyton Siva of Louisville attempts to control the ball between Demetric Williams, left, and Fred VanVleet, right, of Wichita State. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Louisville players wear warm-up shirts with the number 5 for teammate Kevin Ware, who suffered a broken leg earlier in the NCAA tournament, before taking on Wichita State. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Louisville fans hold up signs for Ware before the game. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Wichita State players huddle before the tip-off against Louisville. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Kevin Ware heads to the bench before the game. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Photos: NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville NCAA Final Four: Wichita State-Louisville – Fans gather outside of the Georgia Dome before the game between Louisville and Wichita State in Atlanta. Hide Caption 45 of 45Two crucial foul calls at the end of the game helped the Wolverines secure the win.They advance to play Louisville, who beat Wichita State earlier Saturday.The Shockers and Cardinals battled through a tight, low-scoring first half that ended with Wichita State going into the intermission with a slim 26-25 advantage.Louisville's 72-68 win means that its head coach, Rick Pitino, still is in contention to win his second national championship -- the other coming in 1996, when he coached the Cardinals' archrival, the University of Kentucky.The game also ended Wichita State's remarkable tournament run. The No. 9 seed in the West region beat top-seed Gonzaga and then Ohio State to earn a spot in the Final Four.Despite being a heavy underdog, the Shockers led for much of the game -- leading 47-35 with 13 minutes to go in the contest. But the Cardinals were able to chip away, before finally going ahead with about five minutes remaining.Louisville, which won the national title in 1980 and 1986, will face Michigan Monday night.