Photos: Photos: Highflying cheerleaders of March Madness High-flying cheerleaders of March Madness – Louisville Cardinals cheerleaders perform during a game against the Duke Blue Devils on March 31 in Indianapolis. Click through to see more NCAA cheerleaders jumping and tumbling through March Madness. Hide Caption 1 of 11Photos: Photos: Highflying cheerleaders of March Madness High-flying cheerleaders of March Madness – Louisville Cardinals cheerleaders perform during a game against the Oregon Ducks on March 29 in Indianapolis. Hide Caption 2 of 11Photos: Photos: Highflying cheerleaders of March Madness High-flying cheerleaders of March Madness – A Syracuse Orange cheerleader performs on March 28 in Washington. Hide Caption 3 of 11Photos: Photos: Highflying cheerleaders of March Madness High-flying cheerleaders of March Madness – An Arizona Wildcats cheerleader performs during a break in a game against the Ohio State Buckeyes on March 28 in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 4 of 11Photos: Photos: Highflying cheerleaders of March Madness High-flying cheerleaders of March Madness – A Cincinnati Bearcats cheerleader performs in the first half during a break in the game against the Creighton Bluejays on March 22 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 5 of 11Photos: Photos: Highflying cheerleaders of March Madness High-flying cheerleaders of March Madness – A cheerleader for the Oklahoma Sooners backflips on March 22 in Philadelphia. Hide Caption 6 of 11Photos: Photos: Highflying cheerleaders of March Madness High-flying cheerleaders of March Madness – Illinois Fighting Illini cheerleaders perform during a game against the Colorado Buffaloes on March 22 in Austin, Texas. Hide Caption 7 of 11Photos: Photos: Highflying cheerleaders of March Madness High-flying cheerleaders of March Madness – Cheerleaders for the Akron Zips perform on March 21 in Auburn Hills, Michigan. Hide Caption 8 of 11Photos: Photos: Highflying cheerleaders of March Madness High-flying cheerleaders of March Madness – A University of Nevada Las Vegas Rebels cheerleader does a flip during game stoppage on March 21 in San Jose. Hide Caption 9 of 11Photos: Photos: Highflying cheerleaders of March Madness High-flying cheerleaders of March Madness – The Gonzaga Bulldogs cheerleaders perform in the first half during a break in a game against the Southern University Jaguars on March 21 in Salt Lake City. Hide Caption 10 of 11