Story highlights Brother of firefighter says fallen are heroes foreverObama says no words describe how courageous those who died wereFamilies pay tribute through video messagesRelatives pass 12 flag-draped coffins, each with a picture of a fallen firefighterA row of 12 coffins, each draped with a flag, symbolizes the human cost of an explosion that destroyed much of a small Texas town and left the residents of that town searching for answers.Hundreds of firefighters from across the nation and other first-responders joined grieving families and President Barack Obama and the first lady at the Ferrell Center in Waco, site of a memorial service Thursday for some of the people killed in a fertilizer plant explosion last week in the nearby town of West.The president told the crowd that no words adequately describe the courage displayed by those who died."What I can do is offer the love and support and prayers of the nation," Obama said.Obama told the families and friends of the those killed that they were not forgotten, saying "our hearts have been here in your time of tribulation."Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Forensic mappers work the crater at the site of a fire and explosion in West, Texas, on April 24, 2013. The West Fertilizer Co. plant in the small Texas town exploded days earlier on April 17, killing 15 people. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives search the bank of rail tracks for evidence at the site of the explosion. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Search and rescue workers comb through what remains of a 50-unit apartment building, in foreground, and a nursing home on April 18, 2013. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – The remains of an apartment complex lie on cars. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A deer head mount sits inside a car parked next to an apartment complex damaged in the explosion. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A Valley Mills Fire Department firefighter walks through the remains of an apartment complex next to the fertilizer plant. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Smoke rises from the rubble of a house next to the fertilizer plant. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A railroad boxcar lies on its side near the plant. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A Texas State Trooper stops people from entering a neighborhood near the plant. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A chimney is the only part of a home left standing after the explosion. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Brandon Smith removes broken glass from the West Thrift Shop. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Search and rescue workers comb through what remains of a 50-unit apartment building. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – The West Fertilizer Co. lies in ruins. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – A sheriff's deputy comforts a woman at a command post. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Remains of the fertilizer plant burn in the early morning after the explosion. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Water is sprayed on the remains of the plant. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – With smoke rising in the distance, a law enforcement officer runs a checkpoint at the perimeter about half a mile from the plant. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Waco Police spokesman William Swanton speaks to reporters about the explosion. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Glass from blown-out windows lies shattered on the sidewalk and street after the blast. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Photos: Texas fertilizer plant explodes Texas fertilizer plant explodes – Shattered glass covers items in front of a thrift store. Hide Caption 20 of 20JUST WATCHED Giant crater marks Texas blast site Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Giant crater marks Texas blast site 02:36JUST WATCHED Texas blast leaves nearly 100-foot crater Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Texas blast leaves nearly 100-foot crater 02:56JUST WATCHED Texas residents see homes after blast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Texas residents see homes after blast 01:35JUST WATCHED Texas blast victim expects long recovery Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Texas blast victim expects long recovery 01:43Before the president and first lady Michelle Obama joined the residents of West at the service at Baylor University, the president's helicopter flew over West and circled several times over the flattened structures and scarred earth.The Obamas met privately with the families after the service.Texas Gov. Rick Perry promised the families of the first-responders who died that their loved ones would not be forgotten."First-responders know better than anyone that there's no such thing as a routine emergency," Perry told the crowd, "but it didn't slow them down as they raced toward that burning factory."Perry urged the families to remember that "the spirit that drove those men we love -- they live on" and asked the crowd to "let their deeds serve as an inspiration" to service of others.The families of the victims recorded emotional video tributes that were played during the service. Some were somber, some were mixed with light-hearted memories. All drew tears."Cyrus always hated the word 'hero,'" said Bryce Reed, whose brother was attending a EMT class when the fire that preceded the explosion began. "He and I shared the belief that heroes are persons (whose names) are etched in marble. And that a hero is a sacred and solemn term reserved for only those who paid the ultimate price when others would falter or run."My brother would disagree, but I firmly believe that all privy to this incident can attest that my brother and all those who lay with him are heroes now and forever."Earlier, as the service began, everyone in the arena stood in complete silence as family and friends of the victims filed in. Some of the family members wept as they passed the flag-draped coffins -- 10 with American flags and two with Texas flags -- and photos in front of each one.Family members hugged one another when they arrived at their seats.The service -- which honored the 10 first-responders killed April 17 and two friends of first-responders who also answered the call -- included roll call as the name of each victim was read, followed by one toll from a bell. An officer at the foot of each coffin saluted.Then the bell rang five times, paused, rang five more times, paused again, and rang a final five times to signal the fallen had answered their final call.Each family was given a flag and a helmet in remembrance. A bagpiper played "Amazing Grace."In all, 14 people were killed by the blast, including two other people who died in their apartment nearby.Before Thursday's service, emotions were raw in Waco, the central Texas city about 20 miles south of the scene of the blast.Many onlookers cried as they lined the street outside as a procession of fire trucks slowly passed. One man held a large Texas flag, bowed his head and rested a cowboy hat over his heart.Hundreds of bikers from the Patriot Guard stood at attention as the rescue vehicles passed by.Before leaving Washington, Obama signed a proclamation ordering all flags in the state to be flown at half-staff for the day.City workers from Waco replaced West workers Thursday so they could attend funerals and take a break from trying to repair the city's water system and cleaning up the town.On Wednesday, an American flag was raised and a bugler played taps at a memorial service at the blast site. A few miles away, one of the victims, Kenneth "Luckey" Harris Jr., was laid to rest. Harris, a 52-year-old Dallas firefighter who lived in West, was one of the first-responders who died. One of the coffins at Thursday's service represented Harris.Hundreds of firefighters from Dallas and other areas surrounding West came for the funeral, the first to be held for the responders killed in the blast. Firefighters lined the sidewalk as Harris' flag-draped coffin was carried out and loaded into the back of a Dallas fire truck to be carried to the cemetery. Bagpipes played as the coffin went through the crowd.The investigation continues"Shovel by shovel," investigators are combing through the charred remains of the leveled fertilizer distributor after the April 17 explosion in West.Much of the landscape surrounding the West Fertilizer Co. is unrecognizable. What was once a corn silo appears to have crumpled from the blast. A blue tarp covers the shell of a rail car.A crater nearly 100 feet wide and 10 feet deep sits where a building once stood. The crater is now filled with mangled metal and crumbs of mortar. Concrete chunks, some the size of shopping carts, are strewn hundreds of yards away from the blast site.Losses from the explosion will probably top $100 million, said Mark Hanna, a spokesman for the Insurance Council of Texas.But amid the devastation, forensic mappers are hoping to find clues.Hundreds of small pink flags indicate anything on the ground that crews want forensic investigators to take a closer look at.Officials face a difficult task in reconstructing the fire that preceded the deadly explosion. Still unknown: what types of chemicals and in what quantities were stored at the facility.Putting the pieces togetherOne official likened the investigation to a jigsaw puzzle."Right now, think of that coffee table where all 100 pieces are gathered around," Brian Hoback, an official with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, told the San Antonio Express-News. "Now, we're going to pull them together."Robert Champion, special agent in charge of the bureau's Dallas Field Division, said that determining what started the initial fire is key."We feel the explosion was caused by the fire, so we've got to determine what the cause and the origin of the fire was, and that's why we're ... attempting to re-enact that fire scene," he said. "A fire scene is complicated in itself. But you compound that with an explosion, and it really complicates the issue."Investigators have ruled out the possibility that natural causes ignited the fire.