Story highlights West Fertilizer reported having 270 tons of ammonium nitrate on hand in FebruaryThe declaration went to state and local officials but not federal agenciesThe company didn't mention the volatile fertilizer in EPA risk plansThe fertilizer plant that blew up in Texas last week warned state and local officials but not federal agencies that it had 270 tons of highly volatile ammonium nitrate on site, according to regulatory records.The April 17 fire and explosion at West Fertilizer Co. killed 14 people and devastated the small town of West , Texas. Investigators have said they're not sure how much ammonium nitrate was actually on site at the time of the explosion, however, since plant records were destroyed in the blast.The company sold ammonium nitrate and anhydrous ammonia, both commonly used as fertilizers. It had notified state and local emergency management officials of its stock of both in its most recent declaration of hazardous chemicals, filed in February.However, the risk management plan it filed with the federal Environmental Protection Agency in 2011 mentioned only anhydrous ammonia, which produces suffocating fumes and can cause burns if mishandled. The plan listed as a worst-case scenario "the release of the total contents of a storage tank released as a gas over 10 minutes" and did not warn of the risks of explosion.Federal law requires any operation that holds more than a ton of fertilizer-grade ammonium nitrate to report that stock to the Department of Homeland Security. Proposed new rules would cut that to 25 pounds. But Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano told a Senate subcommittee Tuesday that West Fertilizer doesn't appear to have reported its ammonium nitrate stock to federal officials, adding, "We're following up on that."JUST WATCHED Obama: We need towns like West, Texas Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama: We need towns like West, Texas 03:01JUST WATCHED Giant crater marks Texas blast site Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Giant crater marks Texas blast site 02:36Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – U.S. President Barack Obama attends a memorial service at Baylor University in Waco, Texas, on April 25. The memorial was held for those killed in the blast at a Texas fertilizer plant. Fourteen people, nearly all first responders, died in an explosion at the West Fertilizer Co. on April 17. See photos from the explosion. Hide Caption 1 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Photos of the fallen firefighters stand next to their coffins at the memorial on April 25. Hide Caption 2 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Mourners at the memorial on April 25. Hide Caption 3 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Coffins containing the remains of victims from the fertilizer plant explosion in the town of West, Texas, at a memorial on April 25. Hide Caption 4 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A firefighters honor guard stands before the coffins of fallen comrades on April 25. Hide Caption 5 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Firefighters salute as fire trucks and emergency vehicles pass under a flag before the memorial service on April 25. Hide Caption 6 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Firefighters lead the funeral procession for Capt. Kenneth "Luckey" Harris Jr. on Thursday, April 24, in West, Texas. Hide Caption 7 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Firefighters stand on the back of a firetruck that transported Harris' body to the Bold Springs Cemetery in West on April 24. Hide Caption 8 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Family and friends stand in front of Harris' casket at the cemetery on April 24. Hide Caption 9 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A bugler plays taps at a memorial ceremony at the site of the explosion in West on April 24. Hide Caption 10 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Pallbearers carry the casket of fallen firefighter Capt. Kenneth "Luckey" Harris Jr. after his funeral at St. Mary's Catholic Church of the Assumption in West, Texas, on April 24. Hide Caption 11 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A memorial is set up on Monday, April 22, outside a fire station for the firemen who perished in the explosion. Hide Caption 12 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Flowers are tied on a firetruck on April 22 as a memorial for the firemen who died while responding to the explosion. Hide Caption 13 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Vanna Wainwright and her daughter Breanna take part in an open air Sunday service on April 21. Members of the First Baptist Church held their service in an open air field after their church was damaged from the explosion. Hide Caption 14 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Local residents attend a commemoration ceremony on April 21 for those that perished during the fertilizer explosion. Hide Caption 15 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Local residents attend a ceremony in West, Texas, on April 21. Hide Caption 16 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents embrace after a Sunday service at St. Mary's Catholic Church on April 21, four days after the deadly explosion. Hide Caption 17 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents collect donations on Saturday, April 20. Hide Caption 18 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A candlelight vigil is held at St. Mary's Catholic Church in West, Texas, on Thursday, April 18. Hide Caption 19 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Eric Garcia, 12, cries during a candlelight vigil in West, Texas, honoring the victims of the explosion on April 18. More than 200 people were injured and 50 homes destroyed in the small town. Hide Caption 20 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns – People gather for a candlelight vigil at a church in West on April 18. Hide Caption 21 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents tend a prayer service at St. Mary's. Hide Caption 22 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A girl closes her eyes during the vigil. Hide Caption 23 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A young mourner is comforted during the vigil on April 18. Hide Caption 24 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – People pray during a candlelight vigil at St. Mary's Church on April 18. Hide Caption 25 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – Residents embrace after taking part in the vigil. Hide Caption 26 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A woman clasps her hands during the candlelight vigil on April 18. Hide Caption 27 of 28 Photos: West, Texas: A community mourns West, Texas: A community mourns – A young man holds a candle during the vigil. Hide Caption 28 of 28JUST WATCHED Texas residents see homes after blast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Texas residents see homes after blast 01:35In a statement issued earlier this week, after the first lawsuit against it was filed in connection with the explosion, the company said its focus "remains on the fact finding.""We continue to do everything we can to understand what happened to ensure nothing like this ever happens again in any community," it said. "To that end, the owners and staff of West Fertilizer Co. are working closely with investigating agencies. We have encouraged all employees to assist in the fact finding to whatever degree possible."Among the dead was plant foreman Cody Dragoo, who was also a member of the town's volunteer fire department.The explosion happened about 20 minutes after the first report of a fire there. It registered on seismographs as a magnitude 2.1 earthquake and could be felt 50 miles away.Last week's explosion damaged numerous houses, a nursing home and the town's high school and middle school, all of which were built within a few hundred feet of the plant. That's raised concern about similar facilities in other towns, both in rural communities like West and major cities like Houston, the heart of the oil industry."I know there's hundreds of public schools on the fenceline or very close to these industrial plants," said Neil Carman, a former Texas Department of Environmental Quality inspector now working for the state Sierra Club. "I wouldn't be surprised if it's over 1,000."Zoning restrictions are rare in the state, and Carman said there have been thousands of complaints from neighborhoods in areas like Houston, Beaumont and Corpus Christi, home to numerous oil refineries.West Fertilizer had been twice cited by federal regulators twice since 2006.In 2012, the Transportation Department's Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration fined West Fertilizer $5,250 for storing anhydrous ammonia in tanks that lacked the proper warning labels. The agency originally recommended a $10,000 penalty, but it was reduced after the company took corrective action.In 2006, the EPA fined it $2,300 owners to correct problems that included a failure to file a risk management program plan on time. The TCEQ also investigated a complaint about the lingering smell of ammonia around the plant the same year.