(CNN) Here's a look at the Super Bowl, the championship game of the National Football League.February 3, 2019 - Super Bowl LIII takes place at Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta. The New England Patriots defeat the Los Angeles Rams 13-3.A fan takes a selfie outside US Bank Stadium before the game. The game is indoors, but outside it is the coldest Super Bowl on record.A fan takes a selfie outside US Bank Stadium before the game. The game is indoors, but outside it is the coldest Super Bowl on record.An Eagles fan shows his support at the game.An Eagles fan shows his support at the game.Brady and David Andrews (No. 60) lead the Patriots onto the field.Brady and David Andrews (No. 60) lead the Patriots onto the field.The Eagles take the field before the game.The Eagles take the field before the game.Leslie Odom Jr. is backed up by children as he sings "America the Beautiful."Leslie Odom Jr. is backed up by children as he sings "America the Beautiful."Philadelphia's Nelson Agholor is tackled on the first drive. The Eagles scored a field goal.Philadelphia's Nelson Agholor is tackled on the first drive. The Eagles scored a field goal.Foles passes the ball early in the first quarter.Foles passes the ball early in the first quarter.New England's Bill Belichick came into the game with five Super Bowl victories as a head coach. No coach has more.New England's Bill Belichick came into the game with five Super Bowl victories as a head coach. No coach has more.Brady prepares to throw during the first quarter. The five-time Super Bowl winner finished with 505 yards passing.Brady prepares to throw during the first quarter. The five-time Super Bowl winner finished with 505 yards passing.Jeffery pulls in a leaping touchdown catch during the first quarter. The Eagles led 9-3 at the end of the first.Jeffery pulls in a leaping touchdown catch during the first quarter. The Eagles led 9-3 at the end of the first.New England wide receiver Brandin Cooks is tackled by Philadelphia's Rodney McLeod as he tries to hurdle him during the second quarter.New England wide receiver Brandin Cooks is tackled by Philadelphia's Rodney McLeod as he tries to hurdle him during the second quarter.Brady drops a pass during a trick play in the second quarter.Brady drops a pass during a trick play in the second quarter.Blount falls into the end zone on his touchdown run. Blount won a Super Bowl with the Patriots last year.Blount falls into the end zone on his touchdown run. Blount won a Super Bowl with the Patriots last year.Philadelphia's LeGarrette Blount runs for a 21-yard touchdown in the second quarter. It gave the Eagles a 15-3 lead.Philadelphia's LeGarrette Blount runs for a 21-yard touchdown in the second quarter. It gave the Eagles a 15-3 lead.Philadelphia wide receiver Alshon Jeffery bobbles a pass that was intercepted by New England's Duron Harmon, not pictured.Philadelphia wide receiver Alshon Jeffery bobbles a pass that was intercepted by New England's Duron Harmon, not pictured.New England wide receiver Danny Amendola is tackled during the second quarter.New England wide receiver Danny Amendola is tackled during the second quarter.New England's James White celebrates after scoring a 28-yard touchdown run in the second quarter. The Eagles still led 15-12 after New England missed the extra point.New England's James White celebrates after scoring a 28-yard touchdown run in the second quarter. The Eagles still led 15-12 after New England missed the extra point.Foles is mobbed by teammates after his unlikely touchdown catch.Foles is mobbed by teammates after his unlikely touchdown catch.Foles is congratulated by his head coach after the quarterback caught a 1-yard touchdown late in the first half. The touchdown came on a 4th-and-goal trick play.Foles is congratulated by his head coach after the quarterback caught a 1-yard touchdown late in the first half. The touchdown came on a 4th-and-goal trick play.Justin Timberlake performs during the halftime show. See more photosBrady, left, celebrates with Gronkowski after they linked up for a 5-yard touchdown pass on the first drive of the second half. New England moved within three points of Philadelphia, who led 22-12 at halftime.Brady, left, celebrates with Gronkowski after they linked up for a 5-yard touchdown pass on the first drive of the second half. New England moved within three points of Philadelphia, who led 22-12 at halftime.Philadelphia running back Corey Clement holds up the football after catching a 22-yard touchdown pass in the third quarter. The touchdown was held up after a video review, and Philadelphia took a 29-19 lead after the extra point.Philadelphia running back Corey Clement holds up the football after catching a 22-yard touchdown pass in the third quarter. The touchdown was held up after a video review, and Philadelphia took a 29-19 lead after the extra point.New England wide receiver Chris Hogan pulls in a touchdown pass in the third quarter. New England still trailed 29-26 going into the fourth quarter.New England wide receiver Chris Hogan pulls in a touchdown pass in the third quarter. New England still trailed 29-26 going into the fourth quarter.New England tight end Rob Gronkowski reaches for his second touchdown catch of the game. After the extra point, the Patriots took a 33-32 lead in the fourth quarter. It was their first and only lead of the game.New England tight end Rob Gronkowski reaches for his second touchdown catch of the game. After the extra point, the Patriots took a 33-32 lead in the fourth quarter. It was their first and only lead of the game.Ertz bobbles the ball after crossing the goal line. After a video review, the officials ruled that he had already completed the catch and crossed the line as a runner.Ertz bobbles the ball after crossing the goal line. After a video review, the officials ruled that he had already completed the catch and crossed the line as a runner.Philadelphia tight end Zach Ertz dives for the goal line, scoring a fourth-quarter touchdown to give the Eagles a 38-33 lead.Philadelphia tight end Zach Ertz dives for the goal line, scoring a fourth-quarter touchdown to give the Eagles a 38-33 lead.Brady fumbled the ball after a hit by Philadelphia's Brandon Graham, not pictured. Philadelphia added a field goal after the turnover, and that made the score 41-33.Brady fumbled the ball after a hit by Philadelphia's Brandon Graham, not pictured. Philadelphia added a field goal after the turnover, and that made the score 41-33.New England quarterback Tom Brady reacts after fumbling the ball late in the fourth quarter.New England quarterback Tom Brady reacts after fumbling the ball late in the fourth quarter.The Patriots tried a "Hail Mary" pass on the last play of the game, but it fell incomplete.The Patriots tried a "Hail Mary" pass on the last play of the game, but it fell incomplete.The Eagles run onto the field after the final seconds ticked off the clock. The game was played at US Bank Stadium in Minneapolis.The Eagles run onto the field after the final seconds ticked off the clock. The game was played at US Bank Stadium in Minneapolis.Foles celebrates with head coach Doug Pederson after the game. Foles passed for 373 yards and three touchdowns, and he also caught a touchdown pass. And he wasn't even the team's starter for most of the season. He took over late in the year when Carson Wentz got injured.Foles celebrates with head coach Doug Pederson after the game. Foles passed for 373 yards and three touchdowns, and he also caught a touchdown pass. And he wasn't even the team's starter for most of the season. He took over late in the year when Carson Wentz got injured.Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Nick Foles holds his daughter, Lily, after the Eagles won the Super Bowl on Sunday, February 4. Foles was named the most valuable player of the game, which the Eagles won 41-33 over the New England Patriots. It is the franchise's first Super Bowl victory.Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Nick Foles holds his daughter, Lily, after the Eagles won the Super Bowl on Sunday, February 4. Foles was named the most valuable player of the game, which the Eagles won 41-33 over the New England Patriots. It is the franchise's first Super Bowl victory.Maroon 5 headlines the SBLIII Halftime Show. The band is to be accompanied by other artists including Travis Scott and Big Boi. Gladys Knight sings the national anthem.Justin Timberlake performs during the Super Bowl halftime show. When the performance was scheduled it reignited criticism regarding his previous Super Bowl performance in 2004 with Janet Jackson. Pink sings the national anthem.Super Bowl Commercials:1967 - A 30-second commercial costs about $40,000 during the first Super Bowl.2017 - A 30-second spot reportedly costs between $5 million and $5.5 million. The prior record of A 30-second spot reportedly costs between $5 million and $5.5 million. The prior record of $5 million for a 30-second commercial was set in 2016 by CBS.Viewership and Ratings (Nielsen):2015 - Super Bowl XLIX (49) is the most watched US telecast of all time, with an average viewership of 114.4 million.Photos: Super coveted tickets Photos: Super coveted tickets What we now know as the first Super Bowl took place January 15, 1967, at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. But back then, it was just billed as the world championship game between the National Football League champion Green Bay Packers and the American Football League champion Kansas City Chiefs. The rival leagues eventually merged in 1970. Here's a look at all of the Super Bowl tickets, one of the most coveted in sports. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls IV, V and VI. The NFL has traditionally used Roman numerals for the annual event. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls VII, VIII and IX. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls X, XI and XII. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls XIII, XIV and XV. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls XVI, XVII and XVIII. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls XIX, XX and XXI. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls XXII, XXIII and XXIV. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls XXV, XXVI and XXVII. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls XXVIII, XXIX and XXX. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls XXXI, XXXII and XXXIII. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls XXXIV, XXXV and XXXVI. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls XXXVII, XXXVIII and XXXIX. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls XL, XLI and XLII. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls XLIII, XLIV and XLV. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls XLVI, XLVII and XLVIII. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowls XLIX, 50 and LI. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Super coveted tickets Tickets for Super Bowl LII. Hide Caption 18 of 18Other Facts:First Super Bowl - January 15, 1967 - January 15, 1967 - The first Super Bowl championship game was between the NFL (Green Bay Packers) and AFL (Kansas City Chiefs) champions at Memorial Coliseum in Los Angeles. The score was Green Bay, 35 and Kansas City, 10. Attendance was 61,946. Bart Starr, the quarterback for Green Bay, was named the MVP.Lowest Winning Score - February 3, 2019 - Lowest scoring winner - New England Patriots 13, Los Angeles Rams 3 - Super Bowl LIII, at Mercedes Benz Stadium in Atlanta.Highest Winning Score - January 28, 1990 - Highest scoring winner - San Francisco 49ers, 55, Denver Broncos, 10 - Super Bowl XXIV, at the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans. This was also the largest margin of victory to date.Most Played - New England Patriots, 11Most Wins - The New England Patriots and the Pittsburgh Steelers are tied with 6.Most Losses - Denver Broncos and New England Patriots are tied, 5.Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Photos: All the Super Bowl rings The Philadelphia Eagles received this ring for winning the Super Bowl last year. Rings have been made for every NFL champion since the first Super Bowl in 1967. Hide Caption 1 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl I: Green Bay Packers Hide Caption 2 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl II: Green Bay Packers Hide Caption 3 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl III: New York Jets Hide Caption 4 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl IV: Kansas City Chiefs Hide Caption 5 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl V: Baltimore Colts Hide Caption 6 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl VI: Dallas Cowboys Hide Caption 7 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl VII: Miami Dolphins Hide Caption 8 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl VIII: Miami Dolphins Hide Caption 9 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl IX: Pittsburgh Steelers Hide Caption 10 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl X: Pittsburgh Steelers Hide Caption 11 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XI: Oakland Raiders Hide Caption 12 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XII: Dallas Cowboys Hide Caption 13 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XIII: Pittsburgh Steelers Hide Caption 14 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XIV: Pittsburgh Steelers Hide Caption 15 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XV: Oakland Raiders Hide Caption 16 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XVI: San Francisco 49ers Hide Caption 17 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XVII: Washington Redskins Hide Caption 18 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XVIII: Los Angeles Raiders Hide Caption 19 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XIX: San Francisco 49ers Hide Caption 20 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XX: Chicago Bears Hide Caption 21 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXI: New York Giants Hide Caption 22 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXII: Washington Redskins Hide Caption 23 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXIII: San Francisco 49ers Hide Caption 24 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXIV: San Francisco 49ers Hide Caption 25 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXV: New York Giants Hide Caption 26 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXVI: Washington Redskins Hide Caption 27 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXVII: Dallas Cowboys Hide Caption 28 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXVIII: Dallas Cowboys Hide Caption 29 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXIX: San Francisco 49ers Hide Caption 30 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXX: Dallas Cowboys Hide Caption 31 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXXI: Green Bay Packers Hide Caption 32 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXXII: Denver Broncos Hide Caption 33 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXXIII: Denver Broncos Hide Caption 34 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXXIV: St. Louis Rams Hide Caption 35 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXXV: Baltimore Ravens Hide Caption 36 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXXVI: New England Patriots Hide Caption 37 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXXVII: Tampa Bay Buccaneers Hide Caption 38 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXXVIII: New England Patriots Hide Caption 39 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XXXIX: New England Patriots Hide Caption 40 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XL: Pittsburgh Steelers Hide Caption 41 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XLI: Indianapolis Colts Hide Caption 42 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XLII: New York Giants Hide Caption 43 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XLIII: Pittsburgh Steelers Hide Caption 44 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XLIV: New Orleans Saints Hide Caption 45 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XLV: Green Bay Packers Hide Caption 46 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XLVI: New York Giants Hide Caption 47 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XLVII: Baltimore Ravens Hide Caption 48 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XLVIII: Seattle Seahawks Hide Caption 49 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl XLIX: New England Patriots Hide Caption 50 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl 50: Denver Broncos Hide Caption 51 of 52 Photos: All the Super Bowl rings Super Bowl LI: New England Patriots Hide Caption 52 of 52The NFL pays for up to 150 rings at $5,000 per ring (plus adjustments for increases in gold and diamonds).The NFL also pays for 150 pieces of jewelry for the losing team, which may not cost more than half the price set for the Super Bowl ring.The Vince Lombardi Trophy is made from sterling silver by Tiffany & Co.February 1, 2004 - Janet Jackson's breast is exposed during the Janet Jackson's breast is exposed during the halftime performance at Super Bowl XXXVIII (38) when fellow performer Justin Timberlake rips away a piece of her bodice. She later claims it was a "wardrobe malfunction."February 6, 2011 - Cowboy Stadium seating problems, "incomplete installation of temporary seats in a limited number of sections made the seats unusable," leaves 1,250 ticket holders without seats. 850 were distributed around the stadium to other seats, 400 were left with no options. NFL promises triple refunds for the $800.00 ticket for all 1250 people.February 3, 2013 - A power failure at the Super Dome halts the game and leaves half of the stadium in the dark for 34 minutes. Super Bowl XLVII (47) is played in New Orleans at the Mercedes-Benz Superdome. The Baltimore Ravens defeat the San Francisco 49ers 34-31. Beyonce is the half-time performer.Future Super Bowl Sites:2020 - Miami Gardens, Florida Miami Gardens, Florida2021 - Tampa, Florida2022 - Los Angeles, California2023 - Glendale, Arizona