(CNN) Patrick Joachin stood in line at a police station in the Bahamian capital of Nassau, hoping to get a document that would prove he has a clean criminal record and eventually help him flee to the United States."I have nothing left here -- no house, no job, no family," said Joachin, who was evacuated from the Dundas Town neighborhood in Abaco on Saturday.About 17% of all Bahamians are suddenly homeless after Hurricane Dorian wiped out neighborhoods and ripped houses off foundations. That's 70,000 people who have lost almost everything.Joachin wants to catch a flight to Tampa, Florida, where his mother and sister are living, and stay there until it's safe to return to Abaco. If he doesn't make it to the US, Joachin has no other place to go.So far, about 5,000 people have been able to escape the country's hard-hit Abaco Islands. Many others remain stuck in the northern Bahamas in precarious conditions.Residents are sleeping in houses that are still standing but aren't necessarily safe."So many people here are living in homes that are not suitable to be lived in here in Freeport and in Grand Abaco," CNN's Patrick Oppmann said Tuesday from Freeport.And those are the lucky ones.Photos: Hurricane Dorian A body is carried out of the Mudd neighborhood in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on Monday, September 9. Hide Caption 1 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Homes are in ruins one week after Dorian hit Marsh Harbour. Hide Caption 2 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A photo album is seen amid the debris in Marsh Harbour on Sunday, September 8. Hide Caption 3 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A damaged home in Hope Town, Bahamas. Hide Caption 4 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A toppled building crane is draped over a new construction project in Halifax, Nova Scotia, on September 9. Hide Caption 5 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Bodies are loaded onto a plane in Marsh Harbour on Saturday, September 7. Hide Caption 6 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This aerial photo, taken on September 7, shows damage at the South Riding Point oil-storage facility in the Bahamas. Hide Caption 7 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boxes of food are loaded onto trucks in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 7. Hide Caption 8 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People reach out for beverages as they await evacuation in Marsh Harbour. Hide Caption 9 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Evacuees from the Bahamas rest on a Royal Caribbean cruise ship after it arrived in Freeport on September 7. The ship delivered thousands of meals and cases of bottled water. Hide Caption 10 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People wait to leave Marsh Harbour on September 7. Hide Caption 11 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Waves crash into boats in Halifax, Nova Scotia, as Hurricane Dorian approached on September 7. Hide Caption 12 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man looks a tree that fell in Moncton, New Brunswick, on September 7. Hide Caption 13 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man surveys damage at the Boardwalk RV Park in Emerald Isle, North Carolina, on Friday, September 6. Hide Caption 14 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Bryan Philips walks with his dog on a flooded road in Salvo, North Carolina, on September 6. Hide Caption 15 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Evacuees wait to leave Marsh Harbour in the Bahamas. Hide Caption 16 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A fallen tree lies on top of a vehicle in Isle of Palms, South Carolina, on September 6. Hide Caption 17 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Schemelda Saintilien walks past debris and damaged houses on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island. Hide Caption 18 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Police Officer Curtis Resor, left, and Sgt. Michael Stephens check a sailboat for occupants in Beaufort, North Carolina, on September 6. Hide Caption 19 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Homes flattened by Hurricane Dorian are seen on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on Thursday, September 5. Hide Caption 20 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Rescue workers recover a body in Marsh Harbour on September 5. Hide Caption 21 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Two men stand amid the destruction in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 5. Hide Caption 22 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A woman from the Bahamas speaks on a cell phone after evacuating on September 5. Hide Caption 23 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A woman battles rain and wind in Charleston, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 24 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Utility crews work on restoring power in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 25 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Rescue workers walk through floodwaters in Little River, South Carolina, on September 5. Hide Caption 26 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers try to restore power after a tornado hit Emerald Isle, North Carolina, on September 5. Several tornadoes were reported in the Carolinas. Hide Caption 27 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Emerald Isle employees work to clear a road after a tornado hit. Hide Caption 28 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian An aerial view of Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 5. Hide Caption 29 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian An evacuee rides in a Coast Guard helicopter after being rescued from Treasure Cay, Bahamas, on Wednesday, September 4. Hide Caption 30 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boats are piled up on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on September 4. Hide Caption 31 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Roshane Eyma cries as she is greeted by members of her church on September 4. She had been rescued and flown to Nassau, Bahamas. Hide Caption 32 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Marsh Harbour is seen from above on September 4. Hide Caption 33 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Houses destroyed by Hurricane Dorian are seen on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on September 4. Hide Caption 34 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A resident recovers dishes from his son's home in Pine Bay, Bahamas, on September 4. Hide Caption 35 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian An aerial view of damage on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island. Hide Caption 36 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A child walks past clothes laid out to dry in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 4. Hide Caption 37 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A broken plane rests on the side of a road in Freeport. Hide Caption 38 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Debris litters the Grand Bahama International Airport on September 4. Hide Caption 39 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Volunteers receive relief supplies at the New Providence Community Center in Nassau. Hide Caption 40 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boats, docks and houses are destroyed on the island of Great Abaco. Hide Caption 41 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Braden Vick, right, and Scott Ray run along The Battery in Charleston, South Carolina, on September 4. Hide Caption 42 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Bob Quarles boards up his beach house in Oak Island, North Carolina, on September 4. Hide Caption 43 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A house is surrounded by floodwaters on Grand Bahama island. Hide Caption 44 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Debbie Pagan checks her raised furniture one last time before she and her husband evacuated their home in Tybee Island, Georgia, on September 4. Hide Caption 45 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Mailboxes are taped shut in Charleston on September 4. Hide Caption 46 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This aerial image shows damage on the Bahamas' Great Abaco island on Tuesday, September 3. Hide Caption 47 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A family is escorted to a safe zone after being rescued in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 3. Hide Caption 48 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Julia Aylen carries her dog as she wades through waist-deep water near her home in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 49 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Damaged homes are seen in this aerial photograph from the Bahamas on September 3. Hide Caption 50 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Volunteers walk down a flooded road as they work to rescue families near the Casuarina Bridge in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 51 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A car is submerged in Freeport floodwaters on September 3. Hide Caption 52 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Residents wade through a flooded street in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 53 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Eddie Wright and his dog, Vino, wait on a bus to evacuate Brunswick, Georgia. Hide Caption 54 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A house is flooded in Freeport on September 3. Hide Caption 55 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People gather donations at the Christ Episcopal Church in Miami. Hide Caption 56 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Boats are piled up at a Bahamian port on Monday, September 2. Hide Caption 57 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man walks through the rubble left by Hurricane Dorian in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 2. Hide Caption 58 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This September 2 photo provided by NASA shows the eye of Hurricane Dorian as seen from the International Space Station. Hide Caption 59 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Evacuation traffic is seen near South Carolina's coast on September 2. Hide Caption 60 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian US Coast Guard helicopter crews have been helping with search-and-rescue efforts in the Bahamas. Hide Caption 61 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man crosses a street during a downpour in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 62 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This aerial photo shows Marsh Harbour, Bahamas, on September 2. Hide Caption 63 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Agency officials brief Bahamian Prime Minister Hubert Minnis and his cabinet members on September 2. Minnis said many homes, businesses and other buildings have been destroyed or heavily damaged. He called the devastation "unprecedented and extensive." Hide Caption 64 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Businesses are shuttered near Jetty Park in Fort Pierce, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 65 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A boy stands near high surf in Vero Beach, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 66 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian This view of the storm was taken from the International Space Station on September 2. Hide Caption 67 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Dorian left heavy damage at this resort in Hope Town, Bahamas. Hide Caption 68 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Waves caused by Dorian crash into a man at the Jupiter Beach Park in Florida on September 2. Hide Caption 69 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Strong winds blow the tops of trees and brush in Freeport, Bahamas, on September 2. Hide Caption 70 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A passenger looks at the flight board at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on September 2. The airport canceled flights and closed because of winds caused by Dorian. Hide Caption 71 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People watch the waves crash onto Vero Beach, Florida, on September 2. Hide Caption 72 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Clouds loom over a lifeguard tower in Fort Lauderdale on September 2. Hide Caption 73 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Beachgoers watch a man ride a kiteboard in Indialantic, Florida, on Sunday, September 1. Hide Caption 74 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Palm trees blow in strong winds prior to Dorian's landfall in Freeport. Hide Caption 75 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A view outside a car's windshield before Dorian hit Freeport on September 1. Hide Caption 76 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Riverside Mobile Home Park residents Joe Lewis, left, and Rob Chambers work to secure an air conditioner before evacuating the park in Jensen Beach, Florida. Hide Caption 77 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man places a shutter in a window in Lake Worth, Florida. Hide Caption 78 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Passengers arrive at Orlando International Airport on Saturday, August 31. Hide Caption 79 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers install storm shutters in Marsh Harbour, Bahamas. Hide Caption 80 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian NASA employees watch as the Artemis launch tower is rolled back inside a building at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida. Hide Caption 81 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Matt Rohrer loads sandbags in the back of his vehicle in Flagler Beach, Florida, on Friday, August 30. Hide Caption 82 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers at Flamingo Gardens in Davie, Florida, move an Allosaurus statue on August 30. Hide Caption 83 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Shoppers wait in line before sunrise for a Sam's Club store to open in Kissimmee, Florida. Hide Caption 84 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A supervised work crew of female jail prisoners fills sandbags in Titusville, Florida, on Thursday, August 29. Hide Caption 85 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian "Here's a look at #HurricaneDorian from @Space_Station," said astronaut Andrew Morgan, who posted this photo to Twitter. "I caught this shot (August 29) as it traveled across the Caribbean north of Haiti and the Dominican Republic." Hide Caption 86 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Shoppers wait in long lines at a Costco in Davie, Florida, on August 29. Hide Caption 87 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man fills containers with gasoline in Hialeah, Florida, on August 29. Hide Caption 88 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian A man rides a bike by a Miami Beach building with boarded-up windows on August 29. Hide Caption 89 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Dozens of Orange County residents fill sandbags at Blanchard Park in Orlando on Wednesday, August 28. Hide Caption 90 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Empty shelves at a supermarket in Patillas, Puerto Rico, on August 28. Hide Caption 91 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian People stock up with groceries and water in Fort Lauderdale. Hide Caption 92 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Ya Mary Morales and Henry Sustache put plywood over the windows of their home in Yabucoa, Puerto Rico, on August 28. Puerto Rico was ultimately spared the brunt of hurricane-force winds. Hide Caption 93 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Workers prepare a store's exterior in Humacao, Puerto Rico, on August 28. Hide Caption 94 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Cars line up for fuel at a gas station in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico, on Tuesday, August 27. Hide Caption 95 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Men board up a shop's windows in Boqueron, Puerto Rico, on August 27. Hide Caption 96 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Municipal employees clear debris in Ponce, Puerto Rico, on August 27. Hide Caption 97 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Residents board up a storefront pharmacy in Bridgetown, Barbados, on Monday, August 26. Hide Caption 98 of 99 Photos: Hurricane Dorian Residents stand in line at a grocery store in Bridgetown on August 26. Hide Caption 99 of 99On Grand Bahama island, residents "worry about eating spoiled food because so many markets lost their generators," Oppmann said."There's a black market for bread now and every little item that ... we all take for granted."Tuesday, nine days after Dorian made landfall in the Bahamas with 185-mph winds, "we are still without power. Still without water," Oppmann said.Some families are lining up for hours trying to get aid. Many include small children."Understandably, many people, particularly if they have small children ... they just don't want to risk it," Oppmann said. "They just don't want to live in the conditions that we're forced to live in right now."Temporary protected status won't be an option for Bahamians, official saysThe Trump administration will not grant a form of humanitarian relief known as temporary protected status or TPS to Bahamians affected by Dorian, according to an administration official.Administration officials ultimately decided that TPS was not an option for the Bahamians because of the statutory obstacles in place, the time it would take to provide relief and the number of those who would be eligible, according to the official.TPS applies to people who would face extreme hardship if forced to return to homelands devastated by armed conflict or natural disasters, therefore the protections are limited to people already in the United States. Bahamians who haven't already arrived to the US would likely not benefit from the protections.CNN reached out to the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department, which is among those generally involved in the consultation, for comment. State Department referred questions to DHS, which has not yet responded.Some countries hit by hurricanes have been designated for TPS in the past. In the late 1990s, Honduras and Nicaragua were designated for TPS after Hurricane Mitch. And more recently, Nepal was designated for TPS in 2015 after an earthquake killed more than 8,000 people there.The struggle to find refugeBahamian Prime Minister Hubert Minnis said evacuees will be able to come back. But no one knows how long it will take for ravaged islands to recover."I want to assure evacuees that as we start rebuilding their communities they will be returned home," Minnis said.Already, many Bahamians have had difficulty seeking refuge -- both inside and outside the country.By Sunday, all emergency shelters in the capital city of Nassau were full, the Pacific Disaster Center reported, according to USAIDOver the weekend, about 119 ferry passengers hoping to evacuate Grand Bahama to Florida were told to get off a Balearia Caribbean boat if they didn't have visas, the ferry operator said.US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has said the operator did not properly coordinate the evacuation ahead of time.The ferry's operator, Balearia, has since apologized for the "hardship and inconvenience" the passengers experienced. But Balearia also said it received conflicting information."We boarded these passengers with the understanding that they could travel to the United States without their visas, only to later having been advised that in order to travel to Ft. Lauderdale they required prior in-person authorization from the immigration authorities in Nassau," Balearia said in a statement Monday night.Stephen Silvestri, acting port director for the CBP at Port Everglades, said the evacuees were ordered off the boat by the ferry operator -- not by any US government entity.Tuesday, the acting commissioner of US Customs and Border Protection clarified the rules."The requirements remain the same for anyone trying to come to the United States. ... They need travel documents, including the visa," acting CBP Commissioner Mark Morgan said."That captain of that vessel, he knows that. And he knew that if he came to the United States with individuals without travel documents, it would have taken a long time because we're going to do what we always do, which is properly vet everybody. And if they don't have those travel documents, it's going to really slow the process down. What he wanted to do was keep going back and forth and make as many trips" as possible.But in some cases, Bahamians who don't have travel documents might still be allowed into the United States."We're trying to strike that balance," Morgan said. "We don't want this mass exodus from (the) Bahamas. ... But those individuals who do make it to the United States that don't have travel documents, of course ... we're going to apply discretion on a case-by-case basis. We're not going to deny somebody solely because they don't have travel documents."Countless people are still missing, and the death toll will likely soarThe official death toll from the Bahamas is now 50, police said. Authorities found 42 bodies on the Abaco Islands, and eight bodies from Grand Bahama island.An unknown number of people are still missing, the Bahamian National Emergency Management Agency said.Many could be buried or trapped under mountains of rubble. Others may have been washed away by torrential storm surges and submerged.Morticians on Marsh Harbour, the biggest town in the Abacos, said dive teams were needed to recover some of the submerged bodies."We anticipate the discovery of more deceased persons, as the process of search and recovery progresses," the Royal Bahamas commissioner of police said.USAID Administrator Mark Green said parts of the Bahamas looked "almost as though nuclear bombs were dropped on them."Marilyn Laing, a resident of High Rock on Grand Bahama, said she can't describe how catastrophic the damage is."I have no words to say how bad," Laing said. "Maybe one in 10 houses is standing."