If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Holiday weekend is over and you've got the back-to-work blues ? It's not your imagination. It's a real thing, but it's also treatable.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Hurricane Dorian2. California boat fireJUST WATCHED Eerie mayday call from boat as it was engulfed in flames Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Eerie mayday call from boat as it was engulfed in flames 01:573. AfghanistanIs this the beginning of the end of the war in Afghanistan? An agreement "in principle" has been reached between the US and the Taliban, President Trump's special envoy for the country says. The deal would see the US pull almost all of its 14,000 troops from five bases across Afghanistan within 135 days, if the Taliban keeps its end of the deal, envoy Zalmay Khalilzad said. This all needs final approval by Trump, though. If the deal goes through, it would end the longest war in America's history: an almost 18-year-long conflict sparked by the September 11 terror attacks.JUST WATCHED Four presidents, four strategies: The US' wars in Afghanistan Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Four presidents, four strategies: The US' wars in Afghanistan 04:454. West Texas shootingThe man who killed seven people in a shooting rampage in Texas over the weekend had been fired just a few hours before the violence began. But the shootings didn't happen because he was fired , an FBI official said. The shooter was already "enraged" when he showed up to work. The man sprayed the road with bullets after police pulled him over on a traffic violation. He later hijacked a mail truck and shot people at random before police killed him. The victims ranged from 15 to 57 years old and included a US mail carrier and an Army vet . A 17-month-old girl and three law enforcement officers were among the 25 people injured.JUST WATCHED Slain mail carrier's twin sister recounts their last call Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Slain mail carrier's twin sister recounts their last call 02:335. ImmigrationUndocumented families hoping to defer deportation because of medical issues just got some good news. US Citizenship and Immigration Services said it will re-open some pending cases of those applying for relief from deportation because of medical conditions. USCIS had told these families a few weeks ago that the agency was no longer considering such requests, except for certain military exceptions. That set off an outcry (and news media coverage) that caused the agency to slightly reverse course.JUST WATCHED The immigration fight has lasted decades, and neither side is winning Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The immigration fight has lasted decades, and neither side is winning 04:16THIS JUST IN ...Alabama killingsA 14-year-old confessed to shooting to death all five members of his family last night in a town in the northern part of the state.BREAKFAST BROWSEVisiting hoursLily missed the Jonas Brothers concert because she was in the hospital for a chemotherapy treatment. No worries. The brothers came to her insteadWho's the señorita?Shawn Mendes finally admitted what we've known all along. He's in a relationship with ... somebody.JUST WATCHED Shawn Mendes turned social media fame into music career Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shawn Mendes turned social media fame into music career 01:15Travel dream or nightmare?Revel (or recoil) in the details of the world's longest cruise: a 245-day lux journey through six continents and 51 countriesFirst dog10 Downing Street has another new resident -- a cute little rescue puppy . But no one knows how the famous residence's famous cat will take the news.JUST WATCHED Meet Downing Street's chief mouser Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meet Downing Street's chief mouser 02:42Sit back, relaxTesla owners will soon be able to stream YouTube and Netflix right from the car's dashboard. Wait, is that even a good idea?TODAY'S NUMBER304.8That's the speed, in miles per hour, that a specially modified Bugatti Chiron reached on a test track in Germany. It's a new record.JUST WATCHED Watch Bugatti break the world speed record Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch Bugatti break the world speed record 00:59AND FINALLYElevated eatsIf you want to visit this 173-year-old restaurant built into the side of a Swiss mountain, you'll need to take a cable car and then hike part of the way there. (Click to view.)