If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.It's hard to believe, but Bruce Springsteen has never had a No. 1 hit on the pop charts. No matter, because the Boss, who turns 70 today , is the most honored American rock star of all time. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. President TrumpAre the Democrats inching closer to impeaching President Trump after the whistleblower complaint controversy? Yesterday, after Trump acknowledged he talked about Joe Biden during a July call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi warned the administration things might be heading "into a whole new stage of investigation." CNN has previously reported that Trump pressed Zelensky in the call to investigate Biden's son Hunter and his links to a gas company. This took place as US military aid to Ukraine was hanging in the balance, leading some Democrats to accuse the President of abusing his power.2. United NationsThe annual United Nations General Assembly kicks off today in New York, with more than 90 heads of state gathering at UN headquarters for a week's worth of meetings. The assembly's first big event is the Climate Action summit , where UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has asked leaders to offer "concrete and transformative plans" to fight the climate crisis. President Trump won't be there, though. He's skipping the climate summit to host a session on religious persecution . Tomorrow, the parade of speeches by world leaders begins, starting with Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro. Trump is scheduled to speak tomorrow as well. Everyone will be watching as well to see whether Trump meets with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, after tensions between the two countries flared up after the attack on the oil fields in Saudi Arabia.3. Travelers strandedAbout 600,000 travelers are stranded around the world after British tour operator Thomas Cook collapsed last night. The 178-year-old company entered liquidation after talks on a financial rescue failed, so all flights and vacations booked through it have been canceled. With so many people stranded, the British government is working to bring many of them home to the UK, in what's being called the largest peacetime repatriation in the country's history. Click here for the latest updates.JUST WATCHED Thomas Cook collapses leaving some travelers stranded Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Thomas Cook collapses leaving some travelers stranded 03:044. WeatherThere's a new tropical storm in the Atlantic . Tropical Storm Karen formed over the weekend, sparking tropical storm warnings for Saint Vincent, the Grenadines, and Grenada and its territories. Tropical storm watches have been issued for Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands. Karen is moving across the eastern Caribbean in a west-northwest direction and could "pass near or over" Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands tomorrow as a tropical storm.JUST WATCHED Tropical Storm Karen forms near Lesser Antilles Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tropical Storm Karen forms near Lesser Antilles 01:475. Emmy AwardsJUST WATCHED 'Game of Thrones' and 'Fleabag' claim Emmys Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Game of Thrones' and 'Fleabag' claim Emmys 02:14BREAKFAST BROWSERIP, CarlFriends, family and fans of celebrity chef Carl Ruiz -- a Cuban restaurant owner who made frequent Food Network appearances -- are mourning his death . He was 44.JUST WATCHED Celebrity chef Carl Ruiz dies at 44 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Celebrity chef Carl Ruiz dies at 44 00:32Royal visitThe world might finally get to see baby Archie. The 4-month-old royal is joining his parents, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, as they start a tour of southern Africa today.Some kind of heroMeet the 21-year-old college student who worked at a hotel for 32 hours -- alone -- and took care of guests during the worst of the Texas flooding.Icy goodbyefuneral for a glacier ? It happened yesterday in Switzerland, where hundreds paid respects to a glacier that's disappearing as temperatures climb.Special requestWant to wish this WWII vet a happy 100th birthday? Then send him one of the 100 birthday cards he's asked for.TODAY'S QUOTE"The cruelest twist of fate imaginable ..."Kenesha Antoine, posting a tribute to her boyfriend on Facebook , posting a tribute to her boyfriend on Facebook after he drowned during his underwater proposal to her in TanzaniaJUST WATCHED Man drowns after underwater proposal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man drowns after underwater proposal 01:14TODAY'S NUMBER$31 millionThe weekend box office haul for "Downton Abbey," which saw the aristocrats from the British period drama beat out an astronaut and Rambo in a surprise victoryJUST WATCHED 'Downton Abbey' moves from TV to big screen Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Downton Abbey' moves from TV to big screen 01:42HAPPENING LATEREx-officer on trialTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Summer heat for the first day of fall Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Summer heat for the first day of fall 01:29AND FINALLYCat caress