If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.NASA is using the power of music -- and Ariana Grande -- to promote its mission to put a woman on the moon. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Afghanistan warPeace talks to end the longest war in US history are in doubt now , after President Trump said he called off a secret meeting with Taliban leaders. The meeting was supposed to have been over the weekend at Camp David, but the President tweeted that he canceled it after the Taliban took credit for an attack in Kabul that killed a dozen people, including a US soldier . Inviting Taliban leaders onto US soil is an unprecedented move -- especially coming just days before the 9/11 anniversary -- and the invite drew criticism from lawmakers, including some Republicans. But CNN national security analyst Peter Bergen said the proposed deal the peace talks had produced is a bad one and that Trump was right to call off the meetingFour presidents, four strategies: The US' wars in AfghanistanFour presidents, four strategies: The US' wars in Afghanistan 04:45Four presidents, four strategies: The US' wars in Afghanistan2. BahamasA week after Hurricane Dorian, people in the northern Bahamas face an uncertain future. About 70,000 people on Grand Bahama and Abaco islands were left homeless by the storm. The death toll is 45 right now, but the government says that number will definitely rise . Search and recovery efforts have been slowed down by ravaged infrastructure as well as all of the piles of rubble and splintered homes that Dorian left behind. Many people are evacuating to the US, including some via cruise ships.But there was controversy over the weekend after a video emerged on social media that appeared to show Bahamians on a ferry bound for Fort Lauderdale, Florida, being told to get off the vessel if they were traveling to the US without a visa. More than 100 people got off the ferry at that point. Dorian, which is no longer a hurricane, has finally moved out to sea, after it tore across Canada's Atlantic coast over the weekend. About 215,968 customers are without power this morning in Nova Scotia. Click here to see photos and to find out how to help the victims.JUST WATCHED Lifelong Bahamas resident says his home is unrecognizable Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lifelong Bahamas resident says his home is unrecognizable 03:393. Hong Kong protestsAnti-government demonstrators in Hong Kong focused their attention on the US in this weekend's protests. Tens of thousands of protesters waved US flags and marched on the US Consulate in Hong Kong in a bid to get help from the Trump administration . Some marchers sang the US national anthem, while others carried banners, including one that read "President Trump, please liberate Hong Kong." The peaceful protests later deteriorated into violence and vandalism, with some marchers setting fire to a barricade outside a subway station entrance, smashing windows and spraying graffiti. Demonstrators have been holding protests in Hong Kong since June, calling for greater democracy and civil rights.JUST WATCHED Hong Kong protesters march to US consulate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hong Kong protesters march to US consulate 00:404. British AirwaysIf you have a British Airways flight booked, you might need to make some alternate arrangements. The airline canceled almost all of its flights for today and tomorrow after the British pilots union went on strike. British Airways said it was forced to scrub so many flights because the union hadn't informed it of which pilots would be striking. The airline and union have been locked in a bitter dispute over pay.JUST WATCHED Nearly all British Airways flights canceled due to strike Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Nearly all British Airways flights canceled due to strike 00:405. Cargo ship overturnsFour crew members from a cargo ship are missing after it overturned off the coast of Georgia. The ship, called the Golden Ray, began "listing heavily" about 80 degrees early Sunday morning before overturning in St. Simons Sound. Twenty members of the crew were rescued by the US Coast Guard, but a fire on the ship prevented the rescue of four crew members. The missing crew members -- all South Korean nationals -- are all in the ship's engine room. Officials are waiting for the ship to stabilize before resuming the rescue effort.JUST WATCHED Rescue operations paused for capsized cargo ship Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rescue operations paused for capsized cargo ship 01:56BREAKFAST BROWSEThis is how we rollCountry duo Florida Georgia Line backed the blue before a show in Indianapolis by giving the police there a new canine officerA new roleCongrats to "This is Us" star Susan Kelechi Watson, who just announced her engagement to fellow actor Jaime Lincoln Smith on Instagram.Last laughAn elementary school student was bullied for his homemade University of Tennessee shirt. Until the school made it an official logoJUST WATCHED Student's handmade 'U.T.' T-shirt logo goes viral Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Student's handmade 'U.T.' T-shirt logo goes viral 00:54Pitch perfectWell, here's one way to make a statement about climate change and deforestation: Grow a forest smack dab in the middle of a soccer stadium.Bond, Jane Bond?Who should be the next 007? If ex-Bond actor Pierce Brosnan had his way, it would be a womanTODAY'S NUMBERnearly 1 millionThe number of households left without power as Typhoon Faxai made landfall this morning in JapanTODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Sweltering heat in the Southeast and severe storms in the Midwest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sweltering heat in the Southeast and severe storms in the Midwest 01:42AND FINALLYColor coated