If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Big Papi's back! David Ortiz threw out the first pitch before last night's Red Sox game at Fenway Park, his first public appearance since he was shot in the Dominican Republic.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. PoliticsThe last contest of the 2018 election cycle could be considered the first of the 2020 cycle. Let us explain. A special election is being held today in North Carolina's 9th Congressional District. The State Board of Elections ordered up a new election after credible allegations of ballot fraud emerged during the 2018 contest. That's why Republican Dan Bishop is facing off against Democrat Dan McCready today. It's a heavily GOP district, but it looks like the race could be close . So, everyone is watching this one to see whether the Democrats can continue the success they enjoyed in the 2018 midterms or whether the popularity of President Trump -- who rallied there last night -- is still strong enough in a Southern state to help a GOP candidate win the day.2. North KoreaNorth Korea is back at it. The North fired off a couple of unidentified projectiles into the East Sea this morning. The launches happened just a couple hours after a North Korean diplomat said the country is open to restarting talks with the US. North Korea has conducted 10 launches -- believed to be mostly short-range missiles -- since May. President Trump has said he's not particularly worried about the launches and referred to them as "very standard."JUST WATCHED Experts warn N. Korea's missiles are alarmingly advanced Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Experts warn N. Korea's missiles are alarmingly advanced 02:363. The BahamasJUST WATCHED Dorian survivors left stranded in The Bahamas after confusing message from a ferry boat company Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dorian survivors left stranded in The Bahamas after confusing message from a ferry boat company 02:514. US and RussiaThe US extracted one of its spies out of Russia in 2017, partly over fears that President Trump and his administration repeatedly mishandled classified intelligence and could contribute to exposing the covert source as a spy. That's according to multiple Trump administration officials who talked to CNN for this exclusive report. The decision to carry out the extraction came after an Oval Office meeting in May 2017 in which the President shared highly classified intelligence with two Russian officials. The spy was the highest level source for the US inside the Kremlin and had access to Russian President Vladimir Putin, according to CNN's sources. White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham disputed CNN's reporting, saying it's "not only incorrect, it has the potential to put lives in danger."JUST WATCHED US quietly removed top spy from Russia in 2017 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US quietly removed top spy from Russia in 2017 04:115. Cargo ship rescueThe last crew member of a cargo ship that overturned off the coast of Georgia has been rescued . The Coast Guard pulled the man, who had been trapped behind glass in an engineering control room, out of the Golden Ray cargo ship to cheers and applause. The ship, which was carrying automobiles, capsized early Sunday in St. Simons Sound. Twenty crew members were rescued a few hours later. But fires that broke out on the Golden Ray prevented rescuers from freeing the final four crew members until yesterday. They went to hospitals.JUST WATCHED Crew members of capsized cargo ship rescued Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Crew members of capsized cargo ship rescued 01:01BREAKFAST BROWSECheese headsA restaurant featuring cheese on a conveyor belt ? No, it's not in Wisconsin. You'll have to travel to London for this dream eatery.Dia de los MuertosWe've seen Barbie in just about every iteration you can think of, but this has got to be a first. Introducing the Day of the Dead BarbieSpending spreeWhat should you do if you open up your bank account and see $120,000 in there that you know isn't yours? Do the exact opposite of what this couple did.JUST WATCHED Police: Couple go on spending spree after bank error Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police: Couple go on spending spree after bank error 01:27New mathIn the latest edition of the Monopoly board game, women get more than men when they pass "Go."Big bangPolice in England thought they were headed to a plane crash. Instead, that bright flash in the sky turned out to be a meteorTODAY'S NUMBER$1.7 millionThe amount a seminary in Virginia is setting aside to pay reparations to the descendants of slaves who worked on its campusHAPPENING LATERTake a biteApple is expected to show off some new iPhones today at a big media event, but don't expect anything earth-shattering.JUST WATCHED The head of Apple Pay says this will be the hardest thing in your wallet to replace Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The head of Apple Pay says this will be the hardest thing in your wallet to replace 03:26TODAY'S WEATHERJUST WATCHED Summer heat, severe weather threat continues Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Summer heat, severe weather threat continues 01:47AND FINALLYHello?