If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Let's all wish a happy birthday to Lawrence Brooks. He's believed to be the oldest living American to have served in World War II . And he just turned 110.Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Campaign 2020The main draw for the third Democratic presidential debate was supposed to be the first on-stage showdown between Joe Biden and Elizabeth Warren. There were some fireworks there, but the main action seemed to come from the younger (and lower-polling) candidates, like Julián Castro, Beto O'Rourke, Pete Buttigieg and Cory Booker. They took on their higher-polling elders -- Joe Biden, Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders -- with mixed results. Castro delivered the sharpest attack of the night, a jab about Biden's memory (and thus, his age) that made the audience gasp and some of the other candidates step in and chastise him.2. Census questionChief Justice John Roberts cast the deciding vote against the Trump administration's attempt to add a citizenship question to the 2020 census. But he only did it after changing his position behind the scenes , sources told CNN in this exclusive report. Roberts was all set to join the Supreme Court's four conservative justices and rule for the administration. But he changed his mind -- and his vote -- because he believed the administration's rationale for adding the citizenship question was contrived. Roberts' action in the case proves he's getting less predictable as he becomes the de facto swing vote on the divided court, says CNN legal analyst & Supreme Court biographer Joan Biskupic.JUST WATCHED Why Roberts voted against Trump's citizenship question Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Roberts voted against Trump's citizenship question 01:423. California boat fireThe charred wreckage of the Conception dive boat was lifted off the ocean floor yesterday. The boat sank on Labor Day off the California coast after a fire that killed 34 people. The boat was put on a barge and taken to an undisclosed location. A preliminary report on the tragedy from the National Transportation Safety Board said the Conception didn't have a crew member working as a roving overnight watch , like it was supposed to. Commercial boat operators have also been asked, via a Coast Guard safety bulletin, to limit unsupervised cell phone charging . An NTSB official has said investigators have been looking at the Conception's engineering and wiring and know "there was a lot of gear on board with the cameras and the crew, cameras, phones, extra batteries."JUST WATCHED Deadly fire sinks dive boat off California coast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Deadly fire sinks dive boat off California coast 01:094. WeatherThere's a new threat to the Bahamas brewing in the Atlantic. It's a storm system that's churning a little more than 230 miles away. Meteorologists think it'll turn into a tropical storm over the weekend and could threaten the northern islands of the Bahamas that were just hit hard by Hurricane Dorian . Tropical storm watches and warnings have been issued in the Bahamas and parts of Florida's east coast. The storm could bring wind and rain to the Bahamas today before hitting Florida tomorrow. The Atlantic hurricane season is at its statistical peak, a period when weather conditions favor storms forming quickly. Click here to track the storm systemJUST WATCHED Tropical system threatens the Bahamas and Florida Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tropical system threatens the Bahamas and Florida 01:535. RussiaRussia's ruling party suffered big losses in Moscow's municipal elections. Now, members of the country's opposition say the ruling party is retaliating via nationwide raids . The regional offices of opposition leader Alexei Navalny, as well as the homes of dozens of staff and supporters, were raided, Navalny's team said yesterday. There were reportedly more than 200 searches in 41 Russian cities, causing some to compare the raids to the mass arrests during the height of Soviet repression. Navalny had called for a "smart voting" strategy during the Moscow elections, and it seemed to work. United Russia, the ruling party that supports Russian President Vladimir Putin, lost almost a third of its seats.JUST WATCHED Russian opposition leader says he was poisoned in custody (July) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Russian opposition leader says he was poisoned in custody (July) 03:18THIS JUST IN ...Trade warChina says it will exempt certain US agricultural products from tariffs and allow "relevant enterprises" to buy certain amounts of agricultural products, including soybeans and pork, from the US. That's something the Trump administration had been pushing for and is seen as a good sign in the trade negotiations.JUST WATCHED China waives tariffs on some US goods Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China waives tariffs on some US goods 01:21TODAY'S QUOTE"Lord God, let us live, I beg You, I want to live! I've experienced so little of life. I don't want to die."Renia Spiegel, a Jewish teenager from Poland who was killed by the Nazis in 1942. Her diary, hidden away in a New York bank vault for almost 70 years, An entry from the diary of, a Jewish teenager from Poland who was killed by the Nazis in 1942. Her diary, hidden away in a New York bank vault for almost 70 years, will be published this month . It's already drawing comparisons to the diary of Anne Frank.BREAKFAST BROWSETalk about an incentiveGreen pastures, olive groves and $27,000. That's what you'd get if you move to the Italian region of Molise. Where are our suitcases?Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Pay to move: The Italian region of Molise, which lies to the east of Rome, says it's willing to pay people to move there, in the hope of reversing a decline in rural populations. Hide Caption 1 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Sepino: One of the towns taking part in the scheme is Sepino. Anyone willing to move there could be paid up to $770 a month for three years. Hide Caption 2 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Sepino: New residents must be willing to start a business if they're to qualify for the $27,000 total that's on offer. Hide Caption 3 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Castropignano: Some 106 of Molise's 136 towns and villages -- including Castropignano -- have fewer than 2,000 residents. The region is now one of Italy's most severely depopulated. Hide Caption 4 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Riccia: Acclaimed as one of Italy's "authentic villages" Riccia, one of the depopulated towns, hosts an annual grape festival that celebrates the end of the vendemmia or harvest. Hide Caption 5 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there San Giovanni in Galdo: Located near one of Molise's main routes used by shepherds to move their livestock between low and high pastures, San Giovanni in Galdo is a maze of caves and underground chambers. Hide Caption 6 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Pietrabbondante: Pietrabbondante's archeological area, close to the town and set at an altitude of 1,000 meters, has a spell-binding view over Molise's rugged hills and features a sanctuary and several temples.Hide Caption 7 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Fornelli: Nominated for the 2019's Italy's Most Beautiful Town contest, Fornelli has a medieval center that was once protected by a drawbridge and is now a web of narrow alleys and arched entrances.Hide Caption 8 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Miranda: "I want my region to undergo a renaissance and avoid its authentic villages turning into ghost towns," Antonio Tedeschi, a regional councilor who came up with the idea to pay new residents, tells CNN. "We need to safeguard our roots." Hide Caption 9 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Campitello Matese: Molise is blessed with snow-capped mountains which, around villages such as Campitello Matese, provide a haven for winter sports enthusiasts.Hide Caption 10 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Duronia: Dating back to pre-Roman times, Duronia is a collection of pastel-coloured peasant houses connected by staircases and nestled at the feet of an overhanging fortress. Hide Caption 11 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Castel san Vincenzo: Set in the Alta Valle del Volturno, this area of Molise is known as the Valley of Faith, because monks and pilgrims have, for centuries, come here for meditation and prayer. Hide Caption 12 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Toro: Antonio Tedeschi, the mastermind of the scheme to pay new residents, says incomers must be business-minded. "The goal is to breathe new life and revamp the local economy," he says. Hide Caption 13 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Civitacampomarano: "Newcomers are free to kickstart anything they please in order to get our financial support: a small inn, restaurant, bar, B&B, a tiny rural farm, artisan boutique, library or shop selling local gourmet excellences," Tedeschi adds.Hide Caption 14 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Tufara: Molise is the latest of several regions of Italy to try to attract new residents, as large numbers of young people leave rural areas in search of jobs. Hide Caption 15 of 16 Photos: A photo tour of Molise, the Italian region offering to pay people to move there Ferrazzano: Among schemes being tried are homes on sale for $1, and payments for couples willing to have babies. Hide Caption 16 of 16Fresh, funny facesThree new members join the "Saturday Night Live" cast for its 45th season, including the only Asian-American series regular'Girlfriends,' reuniteTracee Ellis Ross, Golden Brooks, Persia White and Jill Marie Jones will share the small screen once again in an upcoming episode of ABC's "black-ish."Welcome to the Class of 2032He was bullied for his homemade University of Tennessee T-shirt. Now, he's got a scholarship and some serious Volunteer bragging rights.JUST WATCHED University of Tennessee adopts boy's homemade T-shirt logo Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH University of Tennessee adopts boy's homemade T-shirt logo 00:54TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeAn artist transformed what into a forest, as part of an art installation meant to draw attention to the climate crisis and deforestation?A. A soccer stadiumB. A schoolC. A city plazaD. A libraryHAPPENING LATERCollege admissions scandalActress Felicity Huffman is due to be sentenced today in the college admissions cheating scam. She pleaded guilty to mail fraud charges and says she feels "utter shame" for her role in the scandal. Prosecutors want her to spend a month in prison and pay a hefty fine.JUST WATCHED How long could Felicity Huffman spend behind bars? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How long could Felicity Huffman spend behind bars? 01:19TODAY'S NUMBER$400 millionThat's how much Virginia Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax is demanding in a defamation lawsuit against CBS. Fairfax said the network defamed him when it aired interviews of two women who accused him of sexual assault. CBS said it stands by its reporting.JUST WATCHED Lt. Gov. Fairfax compares allegation to lynching Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lt. Gov. Fairfax compares allegation to lynching 01:11AND FINALLYSurf's up