(CNN) Iranian nuclear talks get an extra day. Lufthansa knew about co-pilot's depression. And another state may join Indiana in the religious freedom chaos.It's Wednesday (April Fool's Day!), and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayIRAN NUKE TALKS: Talks to reach a deal on Iran's nuclear program will continue today. Yesterday was the deadline to work out a framework agreement, but negotiators in Lausanne, Switzerland, felt enough progress had been made to continue talks for another day. It's unclear how long the talks will continue. It is believed that the main sticking points remain the pace at which U.N. sanctions on Iran will be lifted and how much nuclear research and development Iran will be allowed to do while the deal is in effect.GERMANWINGS CRASHAirline knew: Andreas Lubitz told his Lufthansa flight training school about his Andreas Lubitz told his Lufthansa flight training school about his depression in 2009 , the airline said yesterday. The revelation was discovered when crash investigators found emails between Lubitz -- the co-pilot of Germanwings Flight 9525 who authorities accuse of deliberately crashing the plane -- and the flight school which included medical documents. This means Lufthansa, parent company of Germanwings, knew about Lubitz's depression, allowed him to continue training and ultimately put him in the cockpit.JUST WATCHED Airline knew about co-pilot's depression Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Airline knew about co-pilot's depression 00:10'RELIGIOUS FREEDOM'Arkansas' turn: The Arkansas House on yesterday approved The Arkansas House on yesterday approved a religious freedom bill similar to Indiana's new controversial law. Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson, a Republican, now has to decided if he will sign the measure. He's set to release a statement about his decision later this morning. If Hutchinson signs the bill, Arkansas may face the same backlash that has whipped Indiana the past few days. The CEO of retail giant Walmart, which is based in Bentonville, Arkansas, urged the governor to veto the bill. Indiana Gov. Mike Pence said yesterday that he wanted a "fix" for his state's law, to make sure that it won't be used as an excuse to discriminate against gay and lesbian people.JUST WATCHED Arkansas lawmaker defends religious freedom bill Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Arkansas lawmaker defends religious freedom bill 04:59IRAQKicked out: Iraqi forces in Tikrit say they have pretty much : Iraqi forces in Tikrit say they have pretty much kicked ISIS out of the city , which the terror group has had in its clutches since June. Iraq's Prime Minister said Iraqi forces had reached the center of the city and placed the nation's flag on top of a key government building. Pockets of fighting continued, however, in the outskirts of Tikrit, the birthplace of former dictator Saddam Hussein. The victory in Tikrit sets the stage for Iraqi forces to take back an even bigger prize: Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city.JUST WATCHED Iraqi PM: Tikrit has been liberated from ISIS Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iraqi PM: Tikrit has been liberated from ISIS 02:23ANDREW GETTYUnexplained death: A cause of death has not been determined in the case of : A cause of death has not been determined in the case of Andrew Getty , the 47-year-old grandson of J. Paul Getty who died yesterday in his home in Los Angeles. A woman, described as a friend of Getty's, who was at the home at the time is cooperating with investigators, Los Angeles police said. In a statement, Getty's parents, Gordon and Ann Getty, requested privacy for the family. Gordon Getty is one of three sons of J. Paul Getty, the oil tycoon who was thought to be the richest man in the world at the time of his death in 1976. Gordon Getty, 81, has an estimated net worth of $2.1 billion.A police officer creates a perimeter outside the Los Angeles home of Andrew Getty, heir to the Getty oil fortune.Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.April Fool's?: Amazon's new : Amazon's new Dash Button sure sounds like an April Fool's Day joke to us. But then again ... we're all for convenience.Great escape: The driver of this vehicle REALLY didn't want to get towed.Wake up call: Florida resort uses "Circle of Life" song to rouse sleepy spring breakers.It's his party: And this kid will dance if he wants to (while loading the dishwasher).Too cute alert!: A dad and baby bond ... with water bottles.