Originally published November 21, 2013(CNN) My grandfather's pocketwatch is one of my prized possessions. It dates back to the turn of the 20th century. My dad kept it in an old cigar box for many years. A forgotten artifact of another time. It no longer winds and the initials that were once engraved have been rubbed down from use. It doesn't have any real monetary value, but I love it. It has a history and story that is intertwined with my own.A few years ago I started on a journey back through time and the origins of my family. It was prompted in large part due to my father's waning health and a fear that his story might be lost if I didn't start recording it. I had no idea where that journey would lead and how grateful I would be to have started the trek.I grew up knowing little of my family history. I knew there was Dutch on my dad's side (the Van de Mark is a bit of a giveaway) and some German. There was English, some German and hints that I might be a wee bit Irish through my mom. Most of it though was a mystery. Then a distant relative put together a family history on mother's side that involved some fascinating tidbits.Amusing tidbits: the idea for feather duster originated at the Hoag Duster Company in a small Iowa town and that my great great aunt married the company's heir. Political tidbits: my maternal grandmother was a Hayes, and family lore has it that we're related somehow to President Rutherford B. Hayes. Despite references to it dating back to the late 19th century, I haven't been able to prove the connection. For now it just remains a family legend, a fun one at that.Delving into family history research turns up fun stories like these, but it also involves a lot of time -- painstakingly combing through records and cross-checking bits and pieces you thought you knew. The recent advent of a plethora of online genealogy sites have made research easier in many respects, but it also means extra time scouring through fact and fiction. Those Ancestry.com commercials make it look so simple!Read More