(CNN) The NFL settles with former players. More heartbreaking testimony in the Boston bombing trial. And rebels in Yemen want to talk peace.It's Thursday, and here are the five things to know for your New Day.FREDDIE GRAY: Five of the six officers involved with Freddie Gray's arrest have provided statements to investigators, Baltimore police said yesterday. Michael Davey, the officers' attorney, said they had "completely cooperated with the investigation from Day 1." He also said they didn't need probable cause to arrest Gray, because he was in a high-crime area and ran from the police unprovoked. Gray's death on Sunday -- which came a week after his arrest, in which he suffered a severe spinal injury while in police custody -- has sparked protests in Baltimore.NFL SETTLEMENTFinal approval: A class action lawsuit settlement between the NFL and thousands of former players was A class action lawsuit settlement between the NFL and thousands of former players was given the final OK yesterday. The settlement provides up to $5 million per retired player for serious medical conditions related to repeated head trauma. It applies to players who retired on or before July 7, 2014, as well as the family members of players who died before then. More than 200 ex-players opted out of the settlement. They claimed the NFL only settled as a means of hiding the dangers of concussions. They can still sue the NFL separately.JUST WATCHED Fmr. player: $5M 'not a dent' in owners' pockets Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fmr. player: $5M 'not a dent' in owners' pockets 02:43BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING TRIALHeartbreaking: A proud police officer. A young couple in love. A "beautiful nerd." This is how some of the victims and survivors of the Boston Marathon bombing were described by family and friends yesterday, during a A proud police officer. A young couple in love. A "beautiful nerd." This is how some of the victims and survivors of the Boston Marathon bombing were described by family and friends yesterday, during a second day of victim impact statements . The jury is hearing the statements as it decides whether bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev should live or die for his crimes. Adrianne Haslet-Davis, who lost her leg in the bombing, talked about how happy she and her husband were as they stood at the finish line as the bombs went off and changed everything. Lingzi Lu's aunt described the Boston University grad student as nerdy and beautiful. Lu was from China but is buried in Boston. Sean Collier's stepfather said it took Collier's mother months to gain the strength to climb out of bed after her son, an MIT police officer, was killed by Tsarnaev and his brother.JUST WATCHED Friendship forged amid aftermath of Boston bombing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Friendship forged amid aftermath of Boston bombing 04:16YEMEN UNRESTPeace talks? Houthi rebels Houthi rebels want to talk peace , as a Saudi-led coalition hit Yemen with fresh airstrikes yesterday. A Houthi spokesman said the U.N.-sponsored talks should resume "only after a complete halt of attacks." Earlier this week Saudi Arabia ended the airstrikes and announced the start of Operation Decisive Storm, seeking a political solution to the violence. But less than 24 hours later, airstrikes resumed after Houthi forces attacked a Yemeni government military brigade. It was unclear whether the strikes were a resumption of the operation or just a short-term series of attacks.Photos: Unrest in Yemen The sky over Sanaa, Yemen, is illuminated by anti-aircraft fire during a Saudi-led airstrike on Friday, April 17. The coalition's warplanes have been carrying out strikes against Houthi rebels since President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi fled the country in late March. Hide Caption 1 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen A Yemeni boy holds a rifle as Houthi supporters attend a rally in Sanaa, Yemen, on Sunday, April 5, protesting airstrikes carried out by a Saudi-led coalition against Houthi rebels. Hide Caption 2 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Yemenis dig graves on Saturday, April 4, to bury the victims of a reported airstrike by the Saudi-led coalition in the village of Bani Matar, Yemen. Hide Caption 3 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Yemenis search for survivors in the rubble of houses destroyed by Saudi-led airstrikes on April 4 in a village near Sanaa. Hide Caption 4 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Central Sanaa is covered in dust on Friday, April 3. Airstrikes have turned the bustling capital of Yemen into a ghost town. Hide Caption 5 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen A Yemeni man loads a TV set into a van as he prepares to flee Sanaa on Thursday, April 2. Hide Caption 6 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Militiamen loyal to Hadi take positions on a street in Aden, Yemen, on Thursday, April 2. Houthi rebels seized the presidential palace in Aden, a neutral security official and two Houthi commanders in Aden told CNN. The Houthis are Shiite Muslims who have long felt marginalized in the majority Sunni country. The Sunni Saudis consider the Houthis proxies for the Shiite government of Iran and fear another Shiite-dominated state in the region. Hide Caption 7 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen A framed photo and a purse hang on the wall of a house destroyed by an airstrike near the Sanaa airport on Tuesday, March 31. Hide Caption 8 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Buildings burn at the Jabal al-Hadid military camp in Aden on Saturday, March 28. Yemeni military officials said an explosion rocked the camp that houses a weapons depot, killing and wounding several people. The camp reportedly had been taken by security forces loyal to former Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh. Some of the forces aligned with the Houthis are also loyal to Saleh, who resigned in 2012 after months of Arab Spring protests. Hide Caption 9 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Yemeni supporters of the Houthi movement attend a demonstration against Saudi military operations Thursday, March 26, in Sanaa. Hide Caption 10 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen People search for survivors under the rubble of houses destroyed by airstrikes near the Sanaa Airport on March 26. Hide Caption 11 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Members of Yemen's General People's Committee deploy in Aden, Yemen, on Wednesday, March 25. The militiamen are loyal to Hadi. Hide Caption 12 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen On March 25, honor guards in Sanaa carry the coffins of victims who were killed in suicide bombing attacks several days earlier. Deadly explosions in Sanaa rocked two mosques serving the Zaidi sect of Shiite Islam, which is followed by the Houthi rebels that took over the capital city in January. Hide Caption 13 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Yemenis stand in front of burning tires during an anti-Houthi protest in Taiz, Yemen, on Tuesday, March 24. Hide Caption 14 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Medics treat an anti-Houthi protester who was injured during clashes with pro-Houthi police in Taiz on March 24. Hide Caption 15 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Armed men inspect damage after an explosion at the Al Badr mosque in Sanaa on Friday, March 20. Hide Caption 16 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen A man in Aden holds a police shield that he looted from a base belonging to forces loyal to Saleh on Thursday, March 19. Hide Caption 17 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Houthi supporters in Sanaa deploy giant national flags Wednesday, March 18, during a demonstration to mark the fourth anniversary of the "Friday of Dignity" attack. In 2011, forces loyal to Saleh opened fire on protesters who had gathered in Sanaa to demand the ouster of Saleh and his regime. Hide Caption 18 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Supporters of Ahmed Ali Abdullah Saleh, the son of the former President, wave banners and shout slogans during a demonstration in Sanaa on Tuesday, March 10. The demonstrators were demanding presidential elections be held and that the younger Saleh run for office. Hide Caption 19 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen A child raises his fist during a rally by Houthi supporters in Sanaa on Friday, March 6. Hide Caption 20 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Thousands of armed Yemeni tribal members gather in the southern province of Shabwa on Monday, February 23. Hide Caption 21 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Supporters of the separatist Southern Movement perform prayers during a demonstration in Aden on Friday, February 13. Hide Caption 22 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Houthi fighters guard the gate of the presidential palace where a bomb went off and wounded three people in Sanaa on Saturday, February 7. Hide Caption 23 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Yemeni soldiers guard the presidential palace in Sanaa on Friday, February 6. Hide Caption 24 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Members of the Houthi movement and their allies attend a meeting in the Yemeni capital on Sunday, February 1. Hide Caption 25 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Supporters of the separatist Southern Movement flash the victory sign after they seized police security checkpoints on Saturday, January 24, in Ataq, the capital of the Shabwa province in Yemen. Policemen were told to give up their weapons and return to their bases before the militiamen raised flags of the formerly independent South Yemen at the checkpoints. Hide Caption 26 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Houthi rebels fight with Yemeni protesters during a rally in Sanaa on January 24. Thousands of Yemenis took to the streets of Sanaa in the largest demonstration against Houthis since the Shiite militiamen overran the capital in September. Hide Caption 27 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen On Friday, January 23, Houthis carry coffins of those killed during recent clashes with presidential guard forces in Sanaa. Hide Caption 28 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen A Houthi militiaman sits near a tank near the presidential palace in Sanaa on Thursday, January 22. Hide Caption 29 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Houthi men wearing army uniforms stand guard on a street leading to the presidential palace in Sanaa on Wednesday, January 21. Hide Caption 30 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen A wounded man rests at a hospital in Sanaa on January 21. He was reportedly injured in fierce clashes the previous day. Hide Caption 31 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen A tank is stationed in front of the Sanaa house of President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi on January 21. Hide Caption 32 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen A Houthi rebel mans a checkpoint near the presidential palace on January 21. Hide Caption 33 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen A man walks inside a heavily damaged house near the presidential palace on Tuesday, January 20. Hide Caption 34 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen A woman walks past closed shops in Sanaa on January 20. Hide Caption 35 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen An armed member of the Houthi movement stands guard in the streets of Sanaa on January 20. Hide Caption 36 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen A man surveys his damaged home in Sanaa on January 20. Hide Caption 37 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Houthis inspect a damaged mosque in Sanaa on January 20. Hide Caption 38 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Houthi men raise their weapons during clashes near the presidential palace on Monday, January 19. Hide Caption 39 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Smoke and flames rise in Sanaa during heavy clashes between presidential guards and Houthi rebels on January 19. Hide Caption 40 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Tribal soldiers protecting the city from Houthi rebels stand guard at the city borders in Marib, Yemen, on January 19. Hide Caption 41 of 42 Photos: Unrest in Yemen Houthi men guard a Sanaa street on January 19. Hide Caption 42 of 42CNN POLLThreat matrix: Whom do we fear the most -- Russia, Iran, North Korea, China? According to a Whom do we fear the most -- Russia, Iran, North Korea, China? According to a new CNN/ORC poll , it's ISIS. About 68% of Americans see the terror group as a bigger threat to America than those four traditional foes. And there's no partisan divide on this either, as 68% of Democrats, 79% of Republicans and 63% of independents share this view of ISIS. As for those four countries that the U.S. is usually aligned against, most Americans think Iran is the bigger threat of the group, followed by North Korea, Russia and China.JUST WATCHED Why ISIS is luring so many Americans? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why ISIS is luring so many Americans? 01:43Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Happy birthday: A golden retriever gets 800 tennis balls for his second birthday. Cuteness alert!Walking tall: A teen girl, who was temporarily paralyzed, finds a creative way to thank the nurse who helped her recover.DogPro: Every wonder what your dog does when you're not home? This dog's owner put a GoPro camera on him to find out.Fun with food: These Oreo trick shots are great and all, but this kid really has too much time on his hands.