(CNN) Hillary Clinton makes it official. Thousands protest in Brazil. And the Masters has a new champion. It's Monday, and here are the five things to know for your New Day.ELECTION 2016A day after announcing her second bid for the White House, Hillary Clinton is literally on the road to Iowa today. After her announcement video was released yesterday, Clinton and a group of staffers hopped into a van and started driving to tiny Monticello, Iowa, where the campaign's first event will be held tomorrow. The group stopped at a gas station in Pennsylvania, where Clinton talked to people and posed for pictures, which her campaign promptly posted on social media. On the GOP side of things, Florida Sen. Marco Rubio's run for the White House begins this evening with a speech in Miami.U.S.- CUBA RELATIONS: It was quite the historic weekend at the Summit of the Americas in Panama when the leaders of the United States and Cuba met for the first substantive talks between the two nations in half a century. Barack Obama and Raul Castro talked for an hour in a small conference room on Saturday. Progress was reportedly made, but Obama did not announce that Cuba would be removed from the U.S. list of countries that sponsor terror, as had been expected.BRAZIL PROTESTSMassive demonstrations: An economic downturn and bribery scandal have spurred impeachment talk in Brazil, where : An economic downturn and bribery scandal have spurred impeachment talk in Brazil, where thousands hit the streets yesterday in protests against President Dilma Rousseff. She won re-election in October with just over 50% of the vote, but her approval rating has dropped to 13% after the protests started last month. A bad economy -- with high inflation and a currency that's lost more than 20% of its value against the dollar this year -- is only adding to the frustration.JUST WATCHED Brazilians protest, demand President's impeachement Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Brazilians protest, demand President's impeachement 02:08DISNEY DEATHRace car tragedy: A Lamborghini A Lamborghini crashed into a guardrail yesterday at the Walt Disney World Speedway, killing a passenger. The crash happened during the Exotic Driving Experience, which gives drivers a chance to drive a dream car on a racetrack. A 36-year-old passenger -- Gary Terry of Davenport, Florida -- was killed. The 24-year-old driver apparently lost control of the car, police said. He was hospitalized with minor injuries.JUST WATCHED Passenger killed in crash at Disney racetrack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Passenger killed in crash at Disney racetrack 01:23THE MASTERSA new champ: A wire-to-wire, record-setting win at the Masters doesn't make A wire-to-wire, record-setting win at the Masters doesn't make Jordan Spieth the next Tiger Woods, but he definitely is someone to keep an eye on in the golfing world. Spieth, 21, is the second-youngest Masters champ -- behind Woods in 1997 -- and just the fifth man to lead the tournament from start to finish. He went into yesterday's final round with a four-shot lead and at the 15th hole became the first player to reach 19 under par at the Masters. As for Woods, there was a lot of rust on his game, but he did manage to finish tied for 17th place.JUST WATCHED Jordan Spieth wins the Masters Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jordan Spieth wins the Masters 02:29Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Funny politics: SNL brings back the Clintons.Show stopper: Watch a train bring a bike race to a halt.Splash: Deranged plastic bag forces puppy into a lake.Nappy time: This puppy just doesn't want to go to sleep.Suprise! We can't get enough of these military homecomings.