(CNN) The Hernandez jury speaks. WikiLeaks' founder may be ready to talk. And you'll have to wait a little longer for the Apple Watch. It's Friday, and here are the five things to know for your New Day.HERNANDEZ VERDICTMembers of the jury that sent Aaron Hernandez to prison for the rest of his life used that word a lot when they sat down with Anderson Cooper last night to talk about the trial. They used it when talking about how Hernandez simply walked away when his friend -- murder victim Odin Lloyd -- was shot and killed. They used it in expressing their surprise that Hernandez and his two friends were sunbathing at a pool hours after the murder. That perceived indifference is part of what led them to look beyond Hernandez's football fame and fortune and convict him of first-degree murder. Lesa Strachan, the jury foreperson, said the months-long trial and deliberations -- 35 hours reviewing 130 witness statements and 400 pieces of evidence -- took an "incredibly emotional toll."JULIAN ASSANGEWikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who has been holed up in the Ecuadorian embassy in London for almost three years, may soon be talking to Swedish prosecutors . Assange, accused of sex assaults in Sweden, said he's willing to be questioned by Swedish investigators, but only if they'll see him in London. They would prefer to question Assange in Sweden -- in case there would need to be a trial in the case -- but some of the alleged crimes are subject to statute of limitations this summer, so this may be their last best opportunity to talk to him. Assange has not been charged. He fears Sweden would send him to the United States, where he could be charged for publishing government secrets on WikiLeaks.Assange gestures from a police vehicle on his arrival at Westminster Magistrates' Court in London on April 11. US authorities have also issued an extradition warrant for Assange. The US Department of Justice confirmed Assange has been indicted on conspiracy with Manning.Assange gestures from a police vehicle on his arrival at Westminster Magistrates' Court in London on April 11. US authorities have also issued an extradition warrant for Assange. The US Department of Justice confirmed Assange has been indicted on conspiracy with Manning.A screen grab from video footage shows the dramatic moment when Assange was hauled out of the Ecuadorian Embassy by police on Thursday, April 11. Assange was arrested for "failing to surrender to the court" over a warrant issued in 2012. Officers made the initial move to detain Arrange after Ecuador withdrew his asylum and invited authorities into the embassy, citing the Australian's bad behavior.A van displays images of Assange and Chelsea Manning, the former Army intelligence analyst who supplied thousands of classified documents to WikiLeaks, outside the Ecuadorian Embassy in London on Friday, April 5. A senior Ecuadorian official said no decision has been made to expel Assange from the embassy. According to WikiLeaks tweets, sources had told the organization that Assange could be kicked out of the embassy within "hours to days."A van displays images of Assange and Chelsea Manning, the former Army intelligence analyst who supplied thousands of classified documents to WikiLeaks, outside the Ecuadorian Embassy in London on Friday, April 5. A senior Ecuadorian official said no decision has been made to expel Assange from the embassy. According to WikiLeaks tweets, sources had told the organization that Assange could be kicked out of the embassy within "hours to days."Assange was seen for the first time in months during a hearing via teleconference in Quito, Ecuador, in October 2018. The hearing was then postponed due to translation difficulties.Assange was seen for the first time in months during a hearing via teleconference in Quito, Ecuador, in October 2018. The hearing was then postponed due to translation difficulties.Assange speaks to the media in May 2017, after Swedish prosecutors had dropped their investigation of rape allegations against Assange. But Assange acknowledged he was unlikely to walk out of the embassy any time soon. "The UK has said it will arrest me regardless," he said. "The US CIA Director (Mike) Pompeo and the US attorney general have said that I and other WikiLeaks staff have no ... First Amendment rights, that my arrest and the arrest (of) my other staff is a priority. That is not acceptable."Assange speaks to the media in May 2017, after Swedish prosecutors had dropped their investigation of rape allegations against Assange. But Assange acknowledged he was unlikely to walk out of the embassy any time soon. "The UK has said it will arrest me regardless," he said. "The US CIA Director (Mike) Pompeo and the US attorney general have said that I and other WikiLeaks staff have no ... First Amendment rights, that my arrest and the arrest (of) my other staff is a priority. That is not acceptable."Assange, on the balcony of the Ecuadorian Embassy, holds up a United Nations report in February 2016. The United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention said that Assange was being arbitrarily detained by the governments of Sweden and the United Kingdom.Assange, on the balcony of the Ecuadorian Embassy, holds up a United Nations report in February 2016. The United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention said that Assange was being arbitrarily detained by the governments of Sweden and the United Kingdom.Assange is seen on a video screen in March 2015, during an event on the sideline of a United Nations Human Rights Council session.Assange is seen on a video screen in March 2015, during an event on the sideline of a United Nations Human Rights Council session.Assange speaks during a panel discussion at the South By Southwest Festival in Austin, Texas, in March 2014.Assange speaks during a panel discussion at the South By Southwest Festival in Austin, Texas, in March 2014.Assange appears with Ecuadorian Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino on the balcony of the embassy in June 2013.Assange appears with Ecuadorian Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino on the balcony of the embassy in June 2013.Assange addresses the media and his supporters from the balcony of the Ecuadorian Embassy in London on August 19, 2012. A few days earlier, Ecuador announced that it had granted asylum to Assange. In his public address, Assange demanded that the United States drop its "witch hunt" against WikiLeaks.Assange addresses the media and his supporters from the balcony of the Ecuadorian Embassy in London on August 19, 2012. A few days earlier, Ecuador announced that it had granted asylum to Assange. In his public address, Assange demanded that the United States drop its "witch hunt" against WikiLeaks.Assange leaves the Supreme Court in February 2012. In May of that year, the court denied his appeal against extradition.Assange leaves the Supreme Court in February 2012. In May of that year, the court denied his appeal against extradition.Assange leaves the High Court in London in December 2011. He was taking his extradition case to the British Supreme Court.Assange leaves the High Court in London in December 2011. He was taking his extradition case to the British Supreme Court.In October 2011, a month after WikiLeaks released more than 250,000 US diplomatic cables, Assange speaks to demonstrators from the steps of St. Paul's Cathedral in London.In October 2011, a month after WikiLeaks released more than 250,000 US diplomatic cables, Assange speaks to demonstrators from the steps of St. Paul's Cathedral in London.Assange sits behind the tinted window of a police vehicle in London on December 14, 2010. Assange had turned himself in to London authorities on December 7 and was released on bail and put on house arrest on December 16. In February 2011, a judge ruled in support of Assange's extradition to Sweden. Assange's lawyers filed an appeal.Assange sits behind the tinted window of a police vehicle in London on December 14, 2010. Assange had turned himself in to London authorities on December 7 and was released on bail and put on house arrest on December 16. In February 2011, a judge ruled in support of Assange's extradition to Sweden. Assange's lawyers filed an appeal.Assange and his bodyguards are seen after a news conference in Geneva, Switzerland, in November 2010. It was the month WikiLeaks began releasing diplomatic cables from US embassies.Assange and his bodyguards are seen after a news conference in Geneva, Switzerland, in November 2010. It was the month WikiLeaks began releasing diplomatic cables from US embassies.Assange, in London, displays a page from WikiLeaks on October 23, 2010. The day before, WikiLeaks released approximately 400,000 classified military documents from the Iraq War.Assange, in London, displays a page from WikiLeaks on October 23, 2010. The day before, WikiLeaks released approximately 400,000 classified military documents from the Iraq War.Assange attends a seminar at the Swedish Trade Union Confederation in Stockholm on August 14, 2010. Six days later, Swedish prosecutors issued a warrant for his arrest based on allegations of sexual assault from two women. Assange has always denied wrongdoing.Assange attends a seminar at the Swedish Trade Union Confederation in Stockholm on August 14, 2010. Six days later, Swedish prosecutors issued a warrant for his arrest based on allegations of sexual assault from two women. Assange has always denied wrongdoing.Assange holds a copy of The Guardian newspaper in London on July 26, 2010, a day after WikiLeaks posted more than 90,000 classified documents related to the Afghanistan War.Assange holds a copy of The Guardian newspaper in London on July 26, 2010, a day after WikiLeaks posted more than 90,000 classified documents related to the Afghanistan War.WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange speaks to the media from the balcony of the Ecuadorian Embassy in London in May 2017. Assange, founder of the website WikiLeaks, has been a key figure in major leaks of classified government documents, cables and videos.WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange speaks to the media from the balcony of the Ecuadorian Embassy in London in May 2017. Assange, founder of the website WikiLeaks, has been a key figure in major leaks of classified government documents, cables and videos.JAMEIS WINSTONLawsuit filed: The woman who accused former Florida State quarterback Jameis Winston of rape is taking him to court. Erica Kinsman's : The woman who accused former Florida State quarterback Jameis Winston of rape is taking him to court. Erica Kinsman's lawsuit alleges sexual battery and false imprisonment in a December 2012 incident in which Kinsman says Winston raped her after a night of drinking. A prosecutor decided against bringing criminal charges in the case. Kinsman had already sued Florida State back in January. Winston is expected to be a top pick during the NFL draft on April 30.Jameis Winston won a national championship while at Florida State.USE OF FORCEMore problems?: The Arizona police officer who The Arizona police officer who slammed his car into a fleeing, armed suspect previously faced an excessive force lawsuit in New York. Officer Michael Rapiejko was one of the defendants in a suit filed in 2008 by a man who alleged that Rapiejko pointed a gun, threatened to shoot him, handcuffed and choked him in front of his family during a 2005 arrest. Rapiejko was with the New York Police Department at the time. The suit was settled for $20,000, and the defendants didn't admit to any wrongdoing. Rapiejko's actions in Arizona -- captured on video tape -- have spurred debate about what type of force police should use in certain situations.JUST WATCHED Is hitting a suspect with a police car justifiable? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is hitting a suspect with a police car justifiable? 03:38APPLE WATCHDelay: You're not getting the Apple Watch next week. No one is. The tech giant now says the much-hyped watch You're not getting the Apple Watch next week. No one is. The tech giant now says the much-hyped watch won't be available until June . Apple didn't give a reason for the unexpected delay, but many tech observers believe a supply shortage is to blame. Almost 1 million Americans pre-ordered the Apple Watch on April 10, the first day it was available for online ordering. Apple has faced supply shortages in the past, typically when it launched a completely redesigned model of an iPhone or an iPad.JUST WATCHED Is the Apple Watch a must have? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is the Apple Watch a must have? 02:15Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.'Star Wars': The trailer for the latest movie pretty much shut down the Internet yesterday.'Was that you?' I'm sure this prom-posal was a good idea at the time.Play with me: Lexi the dog works the "sad face" to get someone to play with her.No driver needed: A golf cart -- with no driver -- goes haywire at a Chicago university.Thrill seeker: Wingsuit, Chilean flag, extinct volcano. That's all you need to know to enjoy this one.