After deliberating for 11½ hours, jurors found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev guilty on Wednesday of all 30 counts he faced in the Boston Marathon bombing trial.Seventeen of the 30 counts were capital charges, meaning he is eligible for the death penalty.The trial will next move into a penalty phase, where the jury will hear testimony and arguments from both sides and ultimately be tasked with deciding whether Tsarnaev, 21, will be executed.Jurors will be asked to weigh aggravating factors such as the heinousness of his crimes against mitigating factors such as his family and mental health history, as well as his relative youth. Tsarnaev was 19 at the time of the bombing.The start date of the penalty phase has not yet been set.Since testimony began March 4, federal prosecutors have called 92 witnesses, and the defense just four.It seemed a mismatch from the start. "He was there," Tsarnaev's defense attorney Judy Clarke conceded as the trial opened, but many say the defense strategy always had been to focus on persuading the jury to spare Tsarnaev's life.Clarke tried to convince jurors that her client's older brother, 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who died in a shootout with police days after the terror attack, was the instigator of the marathon plot. The younger man, Clarke said, was only following his older brother.After the verdict, CNN legal analyst Paul Callan said Clarke now faces an uphill battle.Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Judy Clarke has defended some of the most notorious criminals in recent American history and has managed to keep several off death row. Click through to see some of the San Diego lawyer's most high-profile cases: Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Clarke joined the defense team for Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev . He was arrested on April 19, 2013, after a massive manhunt following an overnight shootout with police that left his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev -- the other man wanted in the bombings -- dead. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found guilty of all 30 counts that he faced in the Boston bombing trial on April 8, 2015. Seventeen of those counts were capital charges , meaning he is eligible for the death penalty. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Jared Lee Loughner pleaded guilty to the January 2011 attempted assassination of then-U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords. The Arizona shooting killed six people and wounded 13 others, including Giffords. He was diagnosed by two mental health experts as paranoid schizophrenic, and he was sentenced to life in prison under a plea bargain. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Eric Robert Rudolph was defended by Clarke after he pleaded guilty in 2005 to bombing a women's clinic in Birmingham, Alabama, and other bombings, including at the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta. Prosecutors dropped the death penalty after he led them to dynamite caches in North Carolina. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Zacarias Moussaoui, also known as the 20th hijacker in the 9/11 attacks, was defended by Clarke only briefly since he repeatedly fired his lawyers. He abruptly pleaded guilty to terror conspiracy charges in July 2002, though he was not given the death penalty. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Buford O. Furrow was sentenced to five life terms for a shooting spree at a Jewish Community Center in Los Angeles and the fatal shooting of a Filipino-American postal worker in 1999. Prosecutors dropped the death penalty when the defense documented and charted Furrow's long history of psychiatric treatment for bipolar disorder. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Clarke kept Ted Kaczynski, also known as the Unabomber, off death row. He pleaded guilty in January 1998 to making and transporting bomb materials that killed three people. Federal prosecutors backed away from the death penalty after their own expert diagnosed him as a paranoid schizophrenic. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Susan Smith was convicted of murdering her two sons by strapping them into a car and rolling the car into a lake in 1994. Clarke portrayed Smith as a woman so tormented by her failures in life that she even failed at her own suicide and jumped out of the car. Smith did not receive the death penalty. Hide Caption 8 of 8"Because No. 1, he (Tsarnaev) is almost functioning as an officer of a military organization attacking the United States -- the claim of course that he's an Islamic radical and that this is almost an army-like attack on civilians."And the second thing -- it was so well planned and so callously planned so that civilians would die, so that children would be maimed. And all of this, she has to get around and convince the jury he's not worthy of the death penalty."Boy, she's climbing the Mount Everest of death penalty cases in this case," Callan said about Clarke.