Boston (CNN) After weeks of dramatic and emotionally wrenching testimony in the Boston Marathon bombing trial, jurors deliberated for more than seven hours Tuesday.But they haven't reached a verdict yet.The jurors sent out two questions, which are scheduled to be addressed when they return to court Wednesday morning.Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the 21-year-old accused Boston Marathon bomber, faces life in prison or the death penalty.On Monday, the jury saw a video of the moment a bomb exploded and disemboweled an 8-year-old boy and ripped the leg off his sister. The blast killed a 23-year-old graduate student from China. The jurors heard more horror from April 15, 2013. At one point, prosecutors played a video that showed the scene after a bomb exploded -- blood and injured victims everywhere and the sounds of a child howling. His mother lost her leg."The defendant brought terrorism into the backyards and main streets," Assistant U.S. Attorney Aloke Chakravarty said. "The defendant thought that his values were more important than the people around him. He wanted to awake the mujahedeen, the holy warriors, so he chose Patriots' Day, Marathon Monday," a time for families to gather and watch the marathon.Tsarnaev's defense attorney Judy Clarke tried to persuade jurors that her client's older brother, 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who died in a shootout with police days after the terror attack, was the instigator of the marathon plot. The younger man, Clarke said, was only following his older brother."If not for Tamerlan, it would not have happened," Clarke argued.Bomb survivors and victims' family members wiped away tears and comforted one another in court.Tsarnaev fidgeted at the defense table as he has done throughout the trial.Bill Richard, father of bomb victim Martin Richard, 8, craned his neck to watch Tsarnaev as the prosecutor spoke.JUST WATCHED Reporter: Jury may think life sentence worse than death Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Reporter: Jury may think life sentence worse than death 03:36Dzhokhar Tsarnaev "chose a day when the eyes of the world would be on Boston," Chakravarty said. "He chose a day when there would be civilians on the sidewalks, and he targeted those civilians: men, women and children."The lawyer waited a beat."He wanted to terrorize this country. He wanted to punish America for what it was doing to his people."The prosecutor showed a picture of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and his brother, Tamerlan, in the marathon crowd.The day of the bombings, Chakravarty said, "they felt they were soldiers. They were the mujahedeen and they were bringing their battle to Boston."The counts and possible consequencesTsarnaev is accused of 30 counts, including setting off weapons of mass destruction at a public event as an act of terrorism. Seventeen of those counts carry a sentence of death or life imprisonment.If Tsarnaev is found guilty of at least one of the 17 capital counts, the trial will proceed to a second phase, the so-called penalty phase.That part of the trial will include evidence of aggravating and mitigating factors, and the jury will be asked to weigh elements that make this crime especially heinous against details from Tsarnaev's background and mental health history that would weigh in his favor.JUST WATCHED Jury to begin deliberations on Tsarnaev's fate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jury to begin deliberations on Tsarnaev's fate 02:15Since testimony began March 4, federal prosecutors have called 92 witnesses, and the defense just four. It seemed a mismatch from the start. "He was there," Clarke conceded as the trial opened, but the defense strategy always had been to focus on persuading the jury to spare Tsarnaev's life.Jurors were shown a photo of Tsarnaev standing by a tree behind the family of Martin Richard."These children weren't innocent to him," the prosecutor said. "They were American. He knew what that bag was designed to do."Chakravarty quoted Martin's father who earlier testified, "I guess we were just unlucky that day."But luck had nothing to do with the Boston bombings, the prosecutor said."This was a cold, intentional, terrorist act," he said. The brothers' acts that day were intended, he said, "to make a point. To tell America, 'We won't be terrorized by you anymore. We will terrorize you.' "Retelling a terrifying dayThe defense has maintained that Tsarnaev, who was 19 and flunking out of college at the University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth, fell under the sway of his older, more radicalized brother."In the past few weeks, we have come face to face with tragedy, suffering and grief in dimensions none of us could imagine," Clarke said. "We've heard words, we've heard screams and we've heard cries. For this suffering and pain, there is no excuse."She acknowledged her client participated in a "senseless act."Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A jury condemned Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to death on Friday, May 15, for his role in killing four people and wounding hundreds more in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. See photos that were released as evidence in his trial. Hide Caption 1 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This undated photo of a young Tsarnaev with his brother, Tamerlan, was shown by the defense in the sentencing phase of the trial. Tamerlan died after being shot by police and run over by a car driven by his brother in the massive manhunt that followed the bombings. Hide Caption 2 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Katie Russell met Tamerlan Tsarnaev at a nightclub and dropped out of college to marry him. Her mother, Judith Russell, testified that Tamerlan came between Katie and her family and that Katie became isolated. She eventually converted to Islam and changed her name to Karima Tsarnaeva. She was the breadwinner. But when company came for dinner, she cooked, served the men and then retired to another room. Hide Caption 3 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This collection of photos of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in his wrestling days was introduced by the defense. Hide Caption 4 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This photo of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, recovered from his computer, was shown during the sentencing phase. Hide Caption 5 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image shows victims' positions in the crowd prior to the Boston Marathon bombings on April 15, 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev "flips the bird" in a jail cell during his first arraignment on July 10, 2013. The image was presented to jurors in the sentencing phase of his trial. Hide Caption 7 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev poses in front of a black standard adopted by various militant Islamist groups in this Instagram photo that was entered as evidence. Hide Caption 8 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say Tsarnaev was a self-radicalized jihadist who pored over militant writings, including the article "How to Build a Bomb in the Kitchen of Your Mom." It was found on his laptop and other devices, part of a full-edition download of Inspire magazine, a glossy English-language propaganda tool put out by al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Hide Caption 9 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This Russian manual on how to fire a handgun was found in the apartment where Tsarnaev's brother, Tamerlan, lived. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 10 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This copy of The Sovereign, which calls itself the "newspaper of the resistance," was also found in Tamerlan Tsarnaev's apartment. Hide Caption 11 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Pictured here is a box of bullets found on a street after the shootout in Watertown. The brothers' fingerprints were on the box, prosecutors said. Hide Caption 12 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A pressure cooker was embedded in the side of a resident's Honda during the Watertown shootout. Hide Caption 13 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos of the Watertown shootout were entered into evidence. Neighbors came to their windows and then retreated. One grabbed his infant son and headed toward the back of his house with his wife. Another grabbed a camera and took photographs from an upstairs window. Hide Caption 14 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence The Tsarnaevs had carjacked a Mercedes SUV in Watertown before the shootout. The vehicle was covered in bulletholes, and the rear window was shattered. Hide Caption 15 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This unexploded pipe bomb was found at the scene of the shootout between police and the Tsarnaev brothers in Watertown. Hide Caption 16 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said these boards were attached to the boat where police found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding. A carved message reads, "Stop killing our innocent people and we will stop." Hide Caption 17 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Smashed phones and an ATM card owned by carjacking victim Dun Meng were in the yard where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found. Hide Caption 18 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this surveillance image shows Tsarnaev visiting an ATM hours before a police chase and chaotic shootout in which more than 200 rounds were fired. Hide Caption 19 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Another view of Tsarnaev's visit to the ATM. Hide Caption 20 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Exhibits related to the shooting death of MIT Officer Sean Collier were introduced to the jury on Wednesday, March 11. This image from the crime scene appears to show a bloody gun. Hide Caption 21 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This burned tank top and yellow hoodie belonged to bombing survivor Jessica Kensky. Hide Caption 22 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this Fox Racing logo was from one of the backpacks containing a bomb. Hide Caption 23 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this still image from surveillance video shows Tsarnaev in the UMass Dartmouth gym the day after the bombings. Hide Caption 24 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors showed the jury photos of what they say are Tsarnaev's writings inside the boat he was captured in. Hide Caption 25 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image is from a surveillance camera outside the Forum restaurant in Boston's Copley Square just after the bombing. Hide Caption 26 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors presented two Twitter accounts linked to Tsarnaev that, they said, showed targeting the marathon had been on his mind for at least a year. One account, @J_tsar, contained 1,100 tweets and was the more mainstream of the two. On the day of the 2012 Boston Marathon, a tweet from the account read, "They will spend their money & they will regret it & they will be defeated." Hide Caption 27 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said the second Twitter account is evidence that Tsarnaev led a double life. By day, he was a slacker college sophomore. By night, he was a wannabe jihadist, posting on the account @Al_firdausiA. In one tweet, he urged people to listen to radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki's lectures. "You will gain an unbelievable amount of knowledge," he said in March 2013, just weeks before the bombings. Prosecutors also allege in an indictment that Tsarnaev downloaded al-Awlaki's writings, calling him a "well-known al Qaeda propagandist." Al-Awlaki had been killed in a U.S. drone strike in 2011. Hide Caption 28 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Hide Caption 29 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A Boston Marathon bombing victim is tended to in the street. Hide Caption 30 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Victims at the finish line just after the bombing. Hide Caption 31 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Eight-year-old Martin Richard, the youngest victim , can be seen standing on the rail in the front row. Hide Caption 32 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A closer view of 8-year-old Martin Richard in the crowd before the bombing. Hide Caption 33 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Boston police tend to a wounded child. CNN has chosen not to show the young victim's face. Hide Caption 34 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Mayhem along Boylston Street. Hide Caption 35 of 35Tamerlan Tsarnaev, a Golden Gloves boxer, had hoped to wage jihad, and his slacker younger brother was just along for the ride, the defense has maintained.During the 15-minute rebuttal period, prosecutor William Weinreb told jurors not to be distracted by the defense's "attempt to point the finger at somebody else.""There should be no doubt in your mind that the defendant and his brother are equally guilty," he said. They were "partners in crime."Weinreb pointed out that after the bombing, Tsarnaev went to the grocery store."Tamerlan Tsarnaev didn't turn his brother into a murderer. To shred the bodies of women and children with a homemade type of bomb, you have to be different from other people," the prosecutor said. "If you are capable of such hate, such callousness that you can murder and maim 20 people and then drive to Whole Foods and buy some milk, can you really blame it on your brother?"Final moments of the victimsFrom the start, prosecutors presented a compelling case in which the horrors of April 15 to 19, 2013, were vividly brought to life once again.They began with the stories of bombing survivors and first responders, who described acts of courage and compassion amid madness and chaos.The final moments of the three Boston Marathon spectators who died were recounted by the people who were by their sides.According to testimony, Tamerlan Tsarnaev set off a bomb made from a 6-quart pressure cooker, explosive powder from fireworks, duct tape, nails and BBs on Boylston Street near the finish line. That bomb, which exploded near Marathon Sports, claimed the life of Krystle Campbell, a 29-year-old restaurant manager.Twelve seconds later, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev allegedly detonated a second, similar bomb outside the Forum restaurant, slightly more than a block away. That blast killed the boy, Martin Richard, and Lingzi Lu , 23, a graduate student from China.Chakravarty's voice grew soft Monday as he recalled the victims:Martin's 69-pound body "was shattered, broken, eviscerated, burned. There wasn't a part of this boy's body that wasn't destroyed."Lu "received blast injuries all over her body. Her leg was torn open, and she bled out."Campbell died in less than a minute from "massive blast injuries to her lower extremities. Parts of her body were shredded."Sean Collier, the MIT campus police officer killed three days after the bombings, "never had a chance." He was shot between the eyes. "They assassinated him."The brothers allegedly killed the 26-year-old officer for his service weapon but couldn't pry it loose from a safety holster.Carjacked by the brothersDun Meng told the jury about his frightening 90 minutes with two carjackers, one who admitted being involved in the marathon bombing. He identified that person as Tamerlan Tsarnaev.Police fired 210 rounds at the brothers when they tracked a GPS device in Meng's stolen Mercedes and cornered them in Watertown, Massachusetts. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev struck Tamerlan, who was wounded, when he charged police in the car. Tamerlan died of his injuries."Tamerlan wanted suicide by cop," the prosecutor said Monday. "He was ready for heaven. But the defendant had other plans."Dzhokhar ditched the stolen car and sought shelter in a dry-docked boat parked in a trailer in a backyard in Watertown. As he hid, he used a pencil to scrawl what prosecutors called a "manifesto" in which he said he was jealous of his brother for dying as a martyr and reaching paradise. He also lashed out at the United States for policies he said killed Muslims, writing, "I can't stand to see such evil go unpunished. We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us all."Federal prosecutors also presented evidence gleaned from searches of the brothers' computers, including militant literature written by top al Qaeda leaders. And they traced the purchase of the pressure cookers, ammunition and BBs, which appeared to have been made by Tamerlan.