Photos: Malala Yousafzai Malala Yousafzai poses on stage in Birmingham, England, after she was announced as a recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday, October 10, 2014. Two years earlier, she was shot in the head by the Taliban for her efforts to promote education for girls in Pakistan. Since then, after recovering from surgery, she has taken her campaign to the world stage. Hide Caption 1 of 15Photos: Malala Yousafzai Malala and her family visit the United Nations headquarters in New York before meeting with U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon in August. Hide Caption 2 of 15Photos: Malala Yousafzai Malala speaks during the Commonwealth Day observance service at Westminster Abbey in London. Malala has lived in Britain since the Taliban attack. Hide Caption 3 of 15Photos: Malala Yousafzai Malala speaks at a youth empowerment event at London's Wembley Arena in March. Hide Caption 4 of 15Photos: Malala Yousafzai Malala gives a copy of her book to Britain's Queen Elizabeth II during a reception at Buckingham Palace in October 2013. Hide Caption 5 of 15Photos: Malala Yousafzai Malala addresses students and faculty of Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, after receiving the Peter J. Gomes Humanitarian Award in September 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 15Photos: Malala Yousafzai Queen Rania of Jordan presents Malala with the Leadership in Civil Society Award at the Clinton Global Citizen Awards ceremony in New York in September 2013. Hide Caption 7 of 15Photos: Malala Yousafzai Musician Bono, right, and Salil Shetty, the secretary general of Amnesty International, honor Malala with the Amnesty International Ambassador of Conscience Award at the Manison House in Dublin, Ireland, in September 2013. The award is Amnesty International's highest honor, recognizing individuals who have promoted and enhanced the cause of human rights. Hide Caption 8 of 15Photos: Malala Yousafzai Malala receives a trophy from Yemeni civil rights activist Tawakkol Karman after being honored with the International Children's Peace Prize in The Hague, Netherlands, in September 2013. Karman was one of the Nobel Peace Prize winners in 2011. Hide Caption 9 of 15Photos: Malala Yousafzai Malala receives the 25th International Prize of Catalonia in July 2013 in Barcelona, Spain. The award recognizes those who have contributed to the development of cultural, scientific and human values around the world. Hide Caption 10 of 15Photos: Malala Yousafzai Malala is applauded before she speaks at the United Nations Youth Assembly in New York on July 12, 2013, her 16th birthday. "They thought that the bullets would silence us, but they failed," she said. "And then, out of that silence, came thousands of voices." Hide Caption 11 of 15Photos: Malala Yousafzai Malala was one of seven people featured on the cover of Time magazine's 100 most influential people edition in April 2013. Hide Caption 12 of 15Photos: Malala Yousafzai Malala returns to school at Edgbaston High School for Girls in Birmingham, England, on March 19, 2013. She said she had "achieved her dream." Hide Caption 13 of 15Photos: Malala Yousafzai Malala recovers after receiving treatment at Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham on October 19, 2012. Doctors covered the large hole in her skull with a titanium plate. The teen suffered no major brain or nerve damage, and she even kept the piece of her skull that was removed as a souvenir of her fight. Hide Caption 14 of 15