(CNN) Dash cam video is released in the South Carolina police shooting. Severe weather turns deadly in the Midwest. Shootings and a chase rock D.C. It's Friday, and here are the five things to know for your New Day.S.C. SHOOTINGIt started off as a fairly mundane traffic stop. It ended with a man shot dead in the back. We've seen the video of the fatal shooting. Now dash cam video from the traffic stop is available. The video, released yesterday, shows former North Charleston police Officer Michael Slager stopping Walter Scott's vehicle and the early interactions between the two. Everything seems fairly normal until Scott bolts from the vehicle and runs out of range of the dash cam. A few minutes later, as documented in the earlier video, Slager shoots Scott dead.SEVERE WEATHERDeadly tornadoes: Several tornadoes ripped through the rural Midwest yesterday, leaving one person dead in Fairdale, Illinois. In nearby Kirkland, debris is so thick on the roads that first responders searching for trapped residents could not yet asses damage or injuries. Video surfaced of a massive twister barreling through rural Illinois farmland. Another large and dangerous tornado tore across fields in Iowa, and a twister touched down about 70 miles outside of St. Louis.D.C. SHOOTINGSGunfire and chase: A slew of : A slew of shootings and a chase rocked Washington late last night. The first shooting occurred at the gates of the U.S. Census Bureau headquarters in Suitland, Maryland. A guard was shot there. The suspect fled the scene and headed toward downtown Washington, firing gunshots along the way, with police in pursuit. The chase ended in a crash on Washington's busy H Street, where the suspect and police had a shootout. The suspect and an officer were wounded. Police say this all started with a domestic kidnapping incident.JUST WATCHED Guard wounded in U.S. Census Bureau shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Guard wounded in U.S. Census Bureau shooting 01:01IRAN NUKE DEALVeto-proof? Backers of a Senate bill that would let Congress review the Iran nuclear deal and stop President Obama from waiving sanctions on Iran are about Backers of a Senate bill that would let Congress review the Iran nuclear deal and stop President Obama from waiving sanctions on Iran are about four votes shy of being able to override a presidential veto. The bill is expected to get an OK from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee early next week before being voted on by the full Senate. Many Democrats seemed more willing to vote for the measure, and defy Obama, after influential New York Sen. Chuck Schumer voiced support for the bill earlier this week.JUST WATCHED State Dept. responds to Iran's sanctions demands Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH State Dept. responds to Iran's sanctions demands 02:11ELIZABETH WARRENNot a candidate? She tells anyone who'll listen that she's not running for President. Yet Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, in an interview airing this morning on She tells anyone who'll listen that she's not running for President. Yet Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, in an interview airing this morning on CNN's "New Day ," sounded very much like a presidential candidate. Warren weighed in on a number of issues, including the verdict in the Boston Marathon bombing trial and the recent police shooting in South Carolina. She also talked about the 2016 presidential race and her hope that the candidates will talk about ways to help America's middle class.Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career Sen. Elizabeth Warren addresses a rally in support of Social Security and Medicare on Capitol Hill on September 18, 2014, in Washington, D.C. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career President Barack Obama (right) speaks as Warren and Labor Secretary Tom Perez listen at an AARP conference, February 23, 2015 in Washington, D.C. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career Warren (2nd from left) speaks as Senate Majority Whip Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Illinois, (left), Sen. Patty Murray, D-Washington, (3rd from left) and Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-New York, (right) listen during a news conference on college affordability on June 5, 2014, on Capitol Hill. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career Democratic Senators Barabara Mikulski, Debbie Stabenow, Warren, Tammy Baldwin and Amy Klobuchar at a news conference to announce their support for raising the minimum wage to $10.10 at the U.S. Capitol on January 30, 2014. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career Then-nominee for the Federal Reserve Board Chairman Janet Yellen (left) shakes hands with Warren (Right) after her confirmation hearing before Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee on November 14, 2013, on Capitol Hill. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career Warren speaks at a press conference on April 16, 2013, in Boston, one day after the Boston Marathon bombing. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee members (right to left) Sen. Joe Manchin, Warren and Heidi Heitkamp participate in a hearing with then-Federal Reserve Bank Chairman, Ben Bernanke, after the release of The Semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress on February 26, 2013, in Washington, D.C. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career (Left to right): John Kerry, Warren, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Sen. John McCain, are seated at Kerry's State Department confirmation hearings on Capitol Hill on January 24, 2013. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career Warren participates in a ceremonial swearing-in with her husband Bruce Mann and Vice President Joe Biden in the Old Senate Chamber on January 3, 2013, in Washington, D.C. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career Warren takes the stage for her acceptance speech after beating the incumbent Sen. Scott Brown on November 6, 2012, in Boston, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career Then-Massachusetts Senatorial candidate Warren speaks at the Democratic National Convention on September 5, 2012, in Charlotte, North Carolina. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career President Obama (left) and former financial adviser Elizabeth Warren (left) arrive at the nomination of former Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray (right) to lead a consumer protection bureau at the White House on July 18, 2011. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career Warren, the former Assistant to the President and Special Adviser to the Secretary of Treasury on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, testifies on TARP (The Troubled Asset Relief Program) and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs during a hearing on Capitol Hill on May 24, 2011. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career Warren (far right), an assistant to the President at the time, speaks at the Fortune Most Powerful Women summit on October 5, 2010, in Washington, D.C. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career President Obama (center), with then-Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner (left) looking on, appoints former Congressional Oversight Panel Chair, Warren (right), to assistant and special adviser to the Secretary of the Treasury on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau on September 17, 2010. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career (Left to right) Former Harvard Law Professor Warren talks with former White House Economic Recovery Advisory Board Chairman Paul Volcker and former Commerce Secretary Gary Locke before the signing ceremony for the financial reform bill on July 21, 2010. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Elizabeth Warren's career Then-Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama (center) listens to questions with Rosa Figueroa (left) and Warren while hosting an economic round table at the Illinois Institute of Technology on June 11, 2008, in Chicago. Hide Caption 17 of 17Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Pucker up: Watch this horse give a guy a kiss.What the ...? Hank the dog is terrified of something.Attention parents: How to put a baby to sleep in less than a minute.Kitty in a box: This kitten played around just a little too much.