(CNN) Geraldine Schultz, 67, and Jacklyn Klosa, 69, were neighbors in the rural Illinois hamlet of Fairdale.On Thursday night, their close-knit community was ravaged by a tornado that shredded homes and ripped trees bare of leaves and most limbs. Only the thickest branches remained.Schultz and Klosa were killed, officials said.One woman was pulled from the rubble where her home once stood. The other was found in her tub, where she tried to ride out the storm."Apparently she had no basement," DeKalb County coroner Dennis Miller told reporters. "She told her sister last evening that she was going to the shower to take cover."They died in the "most devastating spots in this town," said Kirkland Community Fire District Chief Chad Connell.JUST WATCHED Before and after tornado damage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Before and after tornado damage 01:59The National Weather Service Friday preliminarily rated the tornado as an EF-4 -- the second most powerful category, with winds between 166 and 200 mph.In Fairdale, nearly 20 homes were leveled, Connell said."We hope and pray that that is all," Gov. Bruce Rauner said Friday. "We're very blessed that more people were not hurt."Ogle County Sheriff Brian VanVickle's house in Rochelle, Illinois, was a mound of rubble when he arrived at dawn Friday.Fortunately, his wife and children were out of town when the tornado struck Thursday night. VanVickle was working at the time, he said. His brother-in-law and sister-in-law, who live across the street, were also out. Their home was leveled as well; at least 30 houses were destroyed by the twister. Nearly 50 homes sustained significant damage."The family is safe," the sheriff said. "That's all that matters. By God's grace, nobody was home. ... Things can be replaced."Even his dog survived: It was found in the ruins, resting atop the mattress of VanVickle's daughter.JUST WATCHED Storm chaser: A lot of damage for many miles Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Storm chaser: A lot of damage for many miles 02:48At least 20 people were treated at local hospitals, with six admitted overnight, Rauner said. One person suffered serious injuries. Four people were staying at a Red Cross shelter.Rauner on Friday declared DeKalb and Ogle counties state disaster areas.Connell said rescue teams have been ferreting through piles of rubble by hand. Cadaver dogs were assisting in the search."We think we have everybody accounted for," DeKalb County Sheriff Roger Scott said. "Right now we have no specific person that's not accounted for."In her 40 years in Rochelle, Cathy Olson had never seen a tornado that big."I saw the top of the funnel cloud, and it was absolutely massive," she said.She watched the hulking gray twister grind past her town Thursday, tearing up its fringes. Officials said most of the damage occurred from 6 to 9 p.m.Rochelle was fortunate. In nearby Kirkland, debris was so thick on the roads, responders searching for trapped residents could not yet assess the damage or injuries, fire officials said.On Thursday, a video surfaced on YouTube of a massive twister barreling across an open field, barely missing farmhouses and barns. Images of the funnel turned up elsewhere on social media.Scariest moment of my life! This happened 15mins ago. Please pray for all those effected by this tornado. I'm still shaking. #tornado #illinois #weatherchannel A video posted by Geno Finn (@g_finn89) on Apr 9, 2015 at 5:26pm PDTMidwestern spateAs many as 14 tornadoes were reported in the rural Midwest on Thursday. A large and dangerous twister tore across fields in Iowa. And a twister touched down 70 miles outside St. Louis.Tornadoes were reported Wednesday in Oklahoma, Kansas and Missouri, the Storm Prediction Center said.Hailstones the size of tennis balls plummeted down on Ashton, Illinois.JUST WATCHED Severe storm threat for 95 million people Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Severe storm threat for 95 million people 01:02It could have been worse as severe tornado damage dotted a path not far from the dense populations of Chicago and Rockford, the state's third-largest city. The tornado cut a 22-mile path through Ogle County, according to disaster management coordinator Tom Richter.Photos: Tornadoes slam Midwest Photos: Tornadoes slam Midwest Firefighters search for unaccounted people on Friday, April 10, a day after a tornado swept through Fairdale, Illinois. Geraldine M. Schultz, 67, was killed when the tornado tore through town, according to Dennis Miller with the DeKalb County coroner. As many as 14 tornadoes were reported in the rural Midwest on Thursday. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Tornadoes slam Midwest Houses and property lie in ruin April 10 in Fairdale. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Tornadoes slam Midwest A tractor-trailer lies on its side April 10 in Rochelle, Illinois. It was knocked over while parked the previous night. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Tornadoes slam Midwest Candy Trudell looks through the wreckage of her home in Rochelle on April 10. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Tornadoes slam Midwest The Kirkland Fire Department walks along a highway while searching for unaccounted people in Fairdale on April 10. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Tornadoes slam Midwest Firefighters tie a U.S. flag to a fallen tree limb in Fairdale on April 10. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Tornadoes slam Midwest A rescue worker searches through wreckage in Fairdale on Thursday, April 9. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Tornadoes slam Midwest A family surveys the wreckage in Fairdale on April 9. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Tornadoes slam Midwest A dog is rescued from a destroyed home in Fairdale on April 9. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Tornadoes slam Midwest A tornado is seen from a home in Kirkland, Illinois, on April 9. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Tornadoes slam Midwest A storm moves over U.S. Route 20 in Belvidere, Illinois, on April 9. Hide Caption 11 of 11Landmark restaurantNorth of Rochelle, a tornado took away a local favorite restaurant: Grubsteakers. "It's kind of one of your little greasy spoon restaurants," said Eric Widick, who drove up in his truck to help out."We're a community. If one person is in need, we'll all be there for them."People were inside when the storm quashed Grubsteakers and turned over a semitruck parked outside. No one was killed or seriously injured, Widick said. A patron who found shelter in a restroom was trapped inside for about half an hour.People had been eating at Grubsteakers for some 25 years and will miss it, Widick said.In Rochelle, the tornado flattened some of the homes of Olson's friends.A safe distance away from it, at her mother's house, she had to think about her husband, Chet, who was re-elected mayor of the town of about 10,000 people the previous day. He'd have a job ahead of him."I have not been able to get a hold of him," Olson said, "but I know he's in touch with the sheriff and is safe," she said.Sheriff's house flattenedVanVickle told journalists late Thursday that the tornado had spared life and limb aside from some people whose injuries were easily treatable.Only foundations remained of some homes, said storm chaser Dan Gottschalk. "You can hear the hissing everywhere from where the structures used to be," he said.Lindsey Clark, a reporter from CNN affiliate WREX-TV in Rockford, said rescuers had to pull trapped people from a home in the Rochelle area.People trapped inside home. I've seen 5 people pulled so far. I'm in the Rochelle area, path of tornado @13WREX pic.twitter.com/FXpRDiILgb — Lindsey Clark (@LindseyClarkk) April 10, 2015VanVickle was newly elected sheriff of Rochelle on Wednesday. On Thursday, the storm took his house and his sister-in-law's. "I've got the clothes on my back," he said.On Friday, VanVickle attended a news conference with Rauner, who praised the sheriff."He's been serving around the clock -- along with his entire team -- with no sleep," the governor said. "Thank you for your service."It was the first tornado VanVickle had ever seen in his county."I've lived here all my life, am the fifth generation in the county. My mom said this is the first time she's ever seen a tornado."He said he is thankful the National Weather Service warned one could come. Sirens provided residents with 27 minutes of lead time. That saved lives, he said."We didn't have a single fatality in the county," said VanVickle, standing in front of the ruins that were once his home. "You count your blessings and you thank God -- even though you see what's behind you -- thank God that everybody's safe."For the time being, VanVickle and his family will stay with relatives."The nice part is we live in the Midwest and everyone takes care of their own," he said.The weather service warned of a "particularly dangerous situation." People across the Midwest should be on alert for severe weather. Tornado watches ran out early Friday. Severe thunderstorms are possible Friday afternoon or evening from parts of the mid-Atlantic region to the Gulf Coast states.