(CNN) Jury deliberations are set to begin in Boston. Rolling Stone faces a lawsuit threat. And college basketball has a new king of the hill.It's Tuesday, and here are the five things to know for your new day.BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING TRIALDzhokhar Tsarnaev's fate is now in the hands of the jury . The defense and prosecution made their closing arguments yesterday; the jury is set to begin deliberations today. Tsarnaev faces 30 counts, including many punishable by death. If he is found guilty of any of the counts that carry the death penalty, a penalty phase will be held. Tsarnaev's lawyer has already said he committed the crime, but did so under the influence of his older brother, Tamerlan.ROLLING STONELegal action: The fallout for Rolling Stone over its discredited gang rape story continues. Yesterday the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity at the University of Virginia said it would "pursue all available legal action" against the magazine. The : The fallout for Rolling Stone over its discredited gang rape story continues. Yesterday the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity at the University of Virginia said it would "pursue all available legal action" against the magazine. The lawsuit threat comes after the Columbia School of Journalism blasted Rolling Stone in a report on the "Rape on Campus" article, which said a UVA student was gang raped at a Phi Kappa Psi party. One of the main points of contention in the report was that the writer of the story, Sabrina Rubin Erdely, and her editors should have been more forthcoming in their exchanges with the fraternity. Phi Kappa Psi hasn't made a final decision yet on when to file a suit.JUST WATCHED No one fired at Rolling Stone. Really? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH No one fired at Rolling Stone. Really? 02:28IRAN NUCLEAR DEALDemocrat speaks: Chuck Schumer just made Barack Obama's life more complicated. The New York Democratic senator, in an interview with Politico, said yesterday he is : Chuck Schumer just made Barack Obama's life more complicated. The New York Democratic senator, in an interview with Politico, said yesterday he is backing legislation that would give Congress the ability to stop the implementation of any Iran nuclear deal once it's finalized. That means other Democrats will likely follow Schumer's lead and also back the legislation -- which would enable Congress to halt the lifting of sanctions on Iran -- and give Republicans a probable veto-proof majority, limiting the President's ability to carry out the deal.JUST WATCHED Will Congress kill the Iran nuclear deal? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Will Congress kill the Iran nuclear deal? 06:01RAND PAULNext candidate: GOP Sen. Rand Paul is expected to officially GOP Sen. Rand Paul is expected to officially begin his presidential campaign today in Kentucky. As he does, many will remember the past presidential runs of his father, former Texas congressman Ron Paul. The elder Paul ran for president three times, in 1988, 2008 and 2012. Those campaigns helped build a nationwide network of support for his son. But Rand Paul -- although similar to his father in many ways -- will need to carve out his own identity as his campaign ramps up.JUST WATCHED What's the difference between Ron Paul and Rand Paul? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What's the difference between Ron Paul and Rand Paul? 01:46COLLEGE BASKETBALLNew champs: The Duke Blue Devils won the school's : The Duke Blue Devils won the school's fifth national championship last night, behind the play of four freshmen. Duke beat Wisconsin 68-63, with freshmen guards Tyus Jones and Grayson Allen scoring 23 and 16 points, respectively. The title makes Duke head coach Mike Krzyzewski the second-winningest coach in Division 1 men's national basketball championships. Duke's fifth title ties it with Indiana and North Carolina for third most NCAA championships.JUST WATCHED Duke claims fifth NCAA men's basketball crown Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Duke claims fifth NCAA men's basketball crown 01:35Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Look what I found! A GoPro was lost four years ago during a parachute jump. It was found; here's what it recorded.Puppy and pacifier: This 8-month-old boxer is a big ol' baby.Dance party: On New York subways, people don't interact too much -- at least not until the DJ drops the beat.Bulldog vs. laundry basket: That's all you really need to know.