Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Choosing sides in the bathroom. Assessing the damage in Alberta. Sorting it all out in Brazil. It's Tuesday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Canada wildfire"It was an animal; it was like a fire I've never seen in my life." The words of Regional Fire Chief Darby Allen as he gave reporters a tour of the damage the Fort McMurray wildfire caused. It wasn't a pretty sight. Whole subdivisions are leveled. The landscape is dotted with charred vehicles. Trees that once lined streets are singed. But there were glimmers of hope: Only 10% of structures (about 2,400) in Fort McMurray were destroyed. And fire fighters managed to save downtown.The wildfire burns through northern Alberta in this image released by NASA on May 3.The wildfire burns through northern Alberta in this image released by NASA on May 3.Robert Parker, left, and Matt Jones siphon gas from two snowmobiles for their truck on May 4.Robert Parker, left, and Matt Jones siphon gas from two snowmobiles for their truck on May 4.Traffic is at a standstill on Highway 63 south as residents flee the wildfire on May 4.Traffic is at a standstill on Highway 63 south as residents flee the wildfire on May 4.People camp out at a beach south of Fort McMurray on May 4.People camp out at a beach south of Fort McMurray on May 4.The wildfire moves toward the town of Anzac on Wednesday, May 4.The wildfire moves toward the town of Anzac on Wednesday, May 4.A woman picks through donated clothing and goods at a makeshift evacuation center in Lac la Biche on May 5.A woman picks through donated clothing and goods at a makeshift evacuation center in Lac la Biche on May 5.Tyra Abo sits on a cot at a makeshift evacuation center in Lac la Biche, Alberta, on May 5.Tyra Abo sits on a cot at a makeshift evacuation center in Lac la Biche, Alberta, on May 5.A member of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police surveys wildfire damage in Fort McMurray. The RCMP tweeted the photo on May 5.A member of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police surveys wildfire damage in Fort McMurray. The RCMP tweeted the photo on May 5.Drivers wait for clearance to take firefighting supplies into town on Thursday, May 5, outside Fort McMurray.Drivers wait for clearance to take firefighting supplies into town on Thursday, May 5, outside Fort McMurray.A police helicopter lifts off through dust and smoke on May 6.A police helicopter lifts off through dust and smoke on May 6.The remains of a swing sits in a residential neighborhood destroyed by the fire on May 6 in Fort McMurray.The remains of a swing sits in a residential neighborhood destroyed by the fire on May 6 in Fort McMurray.A huge plume of smoke from the wildfires rises over Fort McMurray in this aerial photograph taken on May 6.A huge plume of smoke from the wildfires rises over Fort McMurray in this aerial photograph taken on May 6.Remains of a home in Fort McMurray are seen on May 7.Remains of a home in Fort McMurray are seen on May 7.A helicopter helping with the Fort McMurray wildfire takes off from a staging base near Conklin, Alberta, on May 7.A helicopter helping with the Fort McMurray wildfire takes off from a staging base near Conklin, Alberta, on May 7.Skeletons of patio furniture are seen on May 7.Skeletons of patio furniture are seen on May 7.Foundations of homes are all that remain in parts of a residential neighborhood in Fort McMurray on May 7.Foundations of homes are all that remain in parts of a residential neighborhood in Fort McMurray on May 7.A ball of flame rises behind abandoned vehicles on Highway 63 near Fort McMurray on Saturday, May 7.A ball of flame rises behind abandoned vehicles on Highway 63 near Fort McMurray on Saturday, May 7.Rodney Howse gets water at a donation center on May 8. The center was established to help evacuees who were forced from their homes by the wildfire.Rodney Howse gets water at a donation center on May 8. The center was established to help evacuees who were forced from their homes by the wildfire.Smoke fills the air as a police officer checks vehicles at a roadblock along Highway 63 leading into Fort McMurray on Sunday, May 8.Smoke fills the air as a police officer checks vehicles at a roadblock along Highway 63 leading into Fort McMurray on Sunday, May 8.Remains of a burned-out house sit near intact homes in Fort McMurray on May 9.Remains of a burned-out house sit near intact homes in Fort McMurray on May 9.Burned ground surrounds a sign welcoming visitors to Fort McMurray on May 9. The wildfire began Sunday, May 1, and had torched nearly 617,800 acres as of May 10, according to Alberta's Wildfire Management agency. The cause of the blaze was unclear.Burned ground surrounds a sign welcoming visitors to Fort McMurray on May 9. The wildfire began Sunday, May 1, and had torched nearly 617,800 acres as of May 10, according to Alberta's Wildfire Management agency. The cause of the blaze was unclear.A police officer looks over a destroyed building in the Abasands neighborhood of Fort McMurray on Monday, May 9.A police officer looks over a destroyed building in the Abasands neighborhood of Fort McMurray on Monday, May 9.Charred remains of homes are seen in Fort McMurray on May 13.Charred remains of homes are seen in Fort McMurray on May 13.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, left, and Fort McMurray Fire Chief Darby Allen look over the devastation during a visit to Fort McMurray on May 13.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, left, and Fort McMurray Fire Chief Darby Allen look over the devastation during a visit to Fort McMurray on May 13.Remains of a building stand in the neighborhood of Abasand in Fort McMurray on May 13.Remains of a building stand in the neighborhood of Abasand in Fort McMurray on May 13.Remains of burned homes are seen in a neighborhood in Fort McMurray, Alberta, on Friday, May 13. A massive wildfire has forced more than 88,000 people from their homes.2. Brazil politicsToday, in "As the World Turns: Brazil" - The Senate is supposed to vote on President Dilma Rousseff's impeachment this week. Or maybe not. Yesterday, the acting speaker of Brazil's lower house said he wanted to annul a vote by the legislative body approving a motion to impeach Rousseff. (With us so far?) The Senate's president said, nah lower house, we're going to go ahead and have our vote as scheduled. Then everyone started shouting and arguing and the Senate shut it down for the day. Can't wait to see what tomorrow brings!3. Philippines electionRodrigo Duterte may have just been elected the next President of the Philippines , but he's already promising to be a dictator -- a dictator against evil, that is. Duterte, the mayor of Davao City known for his "jokes" about his sexual conquests and the rape of a missionary , also said this morning he'll step down in six months if he hadn't stamped out corruption in the country. How's that for a guarantee? His victory was all but assured when his closest rivals conceded yesterday, but official election results won't be released until next month.JUST WATCHED Rodrigo Duterte poised to win in Philippines Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rodrigo Duterte poised to win in Philippines 02:254. N.C. bathroom lawIn one corner, North Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory and the state's controversial bathroom law, which bans people from using public bathrooms that don't correspond with their biological sex. In the other, Attorney General Loretta Lynch and the Justice Department, which calls the law one big civil rights violation. Yesterday North Carolina sued; the Justice Department counter-sued , and the Great Bathroom Brawl of 2016 is on. Also, the state's university system -- worried about losing federal funding -- declared "we're with the feds."JUST WATCHED Loretta Lynch's North Carolina bathroom bill statement Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Loretta Lynch's North Carolina bathroom bill statement 07:035. ReligionWe're out, now do something about it - if you dare. That was the marker laid down yesterday in an online letter by 111 United Methodist clergy members who came out as lesbian, gay or bisexual . That's in direct opposition to the church's ban on "self-avowed practicing homosexuals" serving in ministry. Starting today the United Methodists start their General Conference in Oregon, where delegates will debate lifting bans on gay ministers, among other things.Breakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day"You never have to default because you print the money ... OK?"Donald Trump to CNN's Chris Cuomo on h to CNN's Chris Cuomo on h is genius strategy to deal with the national debtOnly in Florida"Do you know why I pulled you over sir?" "No, officer, I don't. Does it have anything to do with the alligator foot sticking out of my ashtray ?"Book of suppression?Charges of liberal bias jump from newspapers (cause no one's reading them) to social media: Facebook's accused of suppressing trending conservative topicsFond farewellWilliam Schallert, who died Sunday , was loved as much for being Patty Duke's TV dad as he was for starring in one of "Star Trek's" most popular episodes.#PrayForVinnyHe grew his hair out for two years so he could donate it to cancer patients. Now 7-year-old Vinny Desautels needs help in his own cancer battleBetter late than never