Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A stunning new reality. A shockingly mammoth fire. A tragically late intervention. It's Thursday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .Campaign 2016What seemed impossible last summer is now stunningly real: Donald Trump is going to be the GOP's presidential nominee . The deal was sealed yesterday when The Donald's last remaining GOP opponent -- the good Gov. John Kasich -- dropped out . Not so much for the Dems. The Sanders peeps vow to make Hillz feel the Bern all the way to convention . And because it's mathematically impossible for him to win enough delegates, his only hope is that the superdelegates play nice with him.Canada wildfireIt won't get easier for firefighters in Alberta's Fort McMurray today as high winds, warm temperatures and dry conditions will create a perfect storm to fuel the massive wildfire that's been wreaking havoc there. All of the Canadian city's residents -- all 88,000 of them -- are being evacuated. A state of emergency is in effect across the province and 24,710 acres -- and about 1,6000 structures -- have been destroyed. One man said his entire neighborhood was gone; a woman said her family faced down "a wall of flames" as they fled.Transgender bathroom billA little over a month after North Carolina enacted a law that bans people from using public bathrooms that don't correspond to their biological sex, the Justice Department sent letters there saying the law violates the U.S. Civil Rights Act. The state has until Monday to offer up a "remedy."JUST WATCHED Does North Carolina law endanger transgender citizens? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Does North Carolina law endanger transgender citizens? 02:46PrinceFolks in Prince's inner circle had reached out to a California opioid addiction specialist the day before he died seeking help for him. The specialist's son flew overnight to Minnesota, but he was too late. He found the "Purple Rain" singer unresponsive in an elevator when he got to Paisley Park the next morning. And the ex-lawyer for two of Prince's dead siblings said they told him Prince had a Percocet addiction that developed decades earlier.JUST WATCHED Report: Aides sought addiction help for Prince Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Report: Aides sought addiction help for Prince 02:29Flint water crisisYesterday President Obama drank sips of Flint, Michigan's filtered water during his visit to the beleaguered city. He demanded the politicians responsible for the "screw up" fix it. But he refused to assign blame for the man-made disaster that occurred when the city's water supply was switched and lead got into the system, making residents sick. He also met with Michigan's governor, who was roundly booed by the crowd at a roundtable discussion on the crisis.JUST WATCHED Pres. Obama drinks filtered Flint water, says "it's safe" Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pres. Obama drinks filtered Flint water, says "it's safe" 01:41BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.What's in a nameA new plant named Jamesbondia isn't named after who you think it is. But there are plenty of organisms carrying the names of celebsCoachella for old people?The Desert Trip music festival will have you jamming in the California desert -- just like the young folks -- to the Rolling Stones, Paul McCartney and others.Public service announcementYou know Cinco de Mayo isn't really a holiday, right? So no running around with sombreros and fake mustaches, OK? Here's more helpful do's and don'tsReptiles chase zzzz's tooA new study says lizards sleep just like we do ... meaning they don't get nearly enough either, right?Play responsiblyThere was no winner for last night's Powerball drawing, so the jackpot's up to $415 million . Next drawing is Saturday, so cue the nationwide lottery craziness.Number of the day$70 millionThe price the world's second-biggest diamond -- its the size of a tennis ball! -- is expected to fetch at an auction in London next month.AND FINALLY ...JUST WATCHED Obamas get down on 'Star Wars' day Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obamas get down on 'Star Wars' day 00:46The 4th was with themOn "Star Wars" Day, President Obama, Michelle Obama, R2D2 and some stormtroopers get down to "Uptown Funk" in the White House.