Hollywood, Florida (CNN) When it comes to arcade games, Billy Mitchell likes to compare himself to Neil Armstrong."Who was the first one to the moon? Neil Armstrong. Who was the first person to get a perfect a perfect score on Pac-Man? Billy Mitchell. I was the first one. No one cares who was the second," he said.Knighted the Video Game "Player of the Century," Mitchell has held world records in Pac-Man, Ms. Pac-Man, Donkey Kong, Donkey Kong Jr., Centipede and Burger Time.Mitchell grew up in South Florida in the early 1980s, hanging around the Grand Prix Race-o-Rama arcade and amusement park. While he started out playing pinball, he began to notice a lot of hype around this cool new thing called arcade games. He wanted a piece of the action."Video games were becoming more and more popular and they were stealing the fire from pinball," he said. "All the competition was moving to video games and I wanted that competition. "Being good at arcade games in the early '80s was kind of like being a star quarterback on a high school football team, Mitchell recalled."It was an absolute sporting environment. It was the place where everyone wanted to be. Everybody was fighting to try to be the best and we were at the forefront of it," Mitchell said.In 1982, at the height of what some consider the golden age of arcade games, LIFE magazine did a photo shoot with the 20 best arcade games players. Mitchell, who was 17 years old at the time, made it his duty to be selected for that photo.JUST WATCHED He was the first with a perfect Pac-Man score Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH He was the first with a perfect Pac-Man score 01:38"I was very sure I had the world record on Donkey Kong," he said. "There was a fabled score that was higher than mine. I was totally paranoid I was going to be left out of the photo, so in a one-month period, I began playing Centipede and prior to the event I set a world record on Centipede, which is how I'm featured in LIFE magazine."It was at that same gathering that Mitchell also became the official world record holder for Donkey Kong , beating out Steve Sanders, who claimed to hold that same, fabled high score which Mitchell feared would keep him out of the LIFE magazine photo.The secret of his successMitchell attributes his success in arcade games to an acute ability to focus, an obsession for competition and a bit of luck."You have to have a focus that you can play in a battlefield," he said. "I get knocked down just like everybody else, but the fact of the matter is, I don't ever ever, ever surrender. Simply standup and keep pushing forward."At the same time, Mitchell knew when it was time to take a break. As the popularity of arcade games began to wane in the mid-1980s, he redirected his focus into taking over his dad's restaurant, kicking off his own hot sauce business and starting a family."When I was 20 years old, I realized I couldn't play arcade games forever. The industry of arcade games was also beginning to change," Mitchell said. "It was the beginning of a metamorphosis from arcade games to home game systems."For the next decade and a half, Mitchell rarely touched arcade games at all. His hot sauce business took off; he got married to his wife, Evelyn, and had three kids. But in the late 1990s, Mitchell received a call, and on the other side of that call was a threat to his legacy."These Canadian guys were on the line, claiming they had the ability to get a perfect score in Pac-Man," Mitchell recalled. "To allow someone else to come and get credit for the perfect score in front of me, was not acceptable. So there became the race for the perfect Pac-Man game."Nine Pac-Man dots from victoryOn July 3, 1999, Mitchell and his Canadian competitor Rick Fothergill faced off at Funspot, a historic arcade in Weirs Beach, New Hampshire.Mitchell, who knew Fothergill to compete wearing a red Canadian flag cape, decided that he'd arrive patriotic himself, donning a necktie bearing an American flag.In a fierce competition that lasted the entire weekend, Mitchell and Fothergill went head-to-head.JUST WATCHED Pac-Man at 35: Why you love him more than ever Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pac-Man at 35: Why you love him more than ever 01:53What resulted was unprecedented.Mitchell beat the game, scoring 3,333,360 points.He became the first person ever to achieve a perfect score in Pac-ManDespite that major victory, Mitchell still tips his hat to his competitor who was dots away from beating him to it."Fothergill came nine dots from a perfect score, right before me, right in front of me, it was that close," Mitchell said. "But the fact of the matter is that I played. I was the very first one to get a live perfect score."'Like a rock star'After defeating Fothergill. Mitchell was bombarded with TV interviews and public appearance requests.He also received a very special invitation from the founder of Pac-Man himself, Masaya Nakamura, who invited him to attend the Tokyo Game ShowIn September 1999, Mitchell traveled to Tokyo and arrived to a red carpet welcome."From the moment I arrived at the airport, I was treated like a rock star," Mitchell said. "When I walked through the crowd, the crowds would separate."During his stay, Mitchell was put into a room with a panel of Masaya Nakamura's inner circle.He couldn't believe that he now had the opportunity to ask the creators of Pac-Man anything he could ever want about his favorite game. But quickly Mitchell realized they knew less than he did.Billy Mitchell sits in his Hollywood, Florida, office where he develops custom arcade game covers."I began to ask questions about Pac-Man, and they would respond, 'Mr. Mitchell we have no idea, we never thought scores like this were possible,'" he recalled. "They had more questions than I did. They had never seen Pac-Man played at that level before."The legacyToday, Mitchell wears his brown hair in a shoulder-length swoop. His beard is carefully trimmed and, despite the South Florida heat, he's rarely seen in anything but a vibrant patriotic tie and a three-piece suit. This is a style Mitchell has honed since his Pac-Man perfect score. It's his style and biting charisma that, in part, have kept his name at the forefront of the arcade gaming world.Photos: Real people in video games Photos: Real people in video games Real people in video games – Former Panamanian strongman Manuel Noriega has filed a lawsuit against the makers of "Call of Duty: Black Ops II," saying his portrayal in the game hurts his reputation. But he's far from the first real person to appear in a video game -- and it's not the first controversy, either. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Real people in video games Michael Jackson – "Moonwalker" is the title of a series of Michael Jackson games based on the pop icon's 1988 movie of the same name. Although expansive soundtracks and pop-culture tie-ins are standard today, the series was groundbreaking in the gaming world, and images from the games can still be found in nostalgic corners of the Web. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Real people in video games Mike Tyson – "Punch-Out!!" and "Super Punch-Out!!" were arcade games first. But when they hit Nintendo home systems in 1987, the then-heavyweight champ's name and image were added. Players who beat a list of fictional characters could take on Tyson in a super-challenging bout. After Nintendo's license to use Tyson's image ended -- and he'd lost the title to James "Buster" Douglas -- the final opponent became "Mr. Dream." Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Real people in video games Aerosmith – "Revolution X" is early '90s arcade gaming in all its cheesy glory. The corrupt government of a dystopian near-future kidnaps Aerosmith during a concert because ... well ... we assume they had their reasons. The player then goes about trying to rescue all five band members. The soundtrack by the classic rockers may be the game's best feature -- particularly a Muzak version of "Love in an Elevator" that plays, you guessed it, on an elevator. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Real people in video games Tony Hawk – "Tony Hawk's Pro Skater" revolutionized sports games, and since it launched in 1999, no shortage of famous folks have appeared to take a turn in the half-pipe. Tattoo artist Kat Von D, Green Day frontman Billy Joe Armstrong and rapper Lil Jon are just a few who have appeared -- in addition, of course, to Hawk himself. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Real people in video games Saddam Hussein – In 2000, what better villain was there for your violent first-person shooter than Saddam Hussein? "Soldier of Fortune" featured the former Iraqi dictator as well as fictional villains. It's not the only game to include Saddam. He's playable in 2000's "South Park Rally" alongside the likes of Stan, Cartman, Jesus and Satan. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Real people in video games Phil Collins – The popular street-crime series "Grand Theft Auto" has featured the images and voices of a host of real celebrities. But singer/musician Phil Collins was the first. In 2006's "Vice City Stories," Collins played himself in a story in which the player tries to protect him from a mob hit. After completing the mission, the player can attend a concert at which Collins performs his hit "In the Air Tonight." It makes sense: Collins appeared on the '80s TV series "Miami Vice," which inspired the game. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Real people in video games The Beatles – "The Beatles: Rock Band" was released September 9, 2009. Or 9/9/9. Number nine. Number nine. Number nine. Closely supervised by the Beatles and their estates, the game lets players sing and strum along on a huge list of Beatles classics over scenes ranging from Liverpool's Cavern Club to their final performance on a London rooftop. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Real people in video games Adolf Hitler – Released this year, "Sniper Elite III" is a tactical shooter set during World War II in which players, like in Quentin Tarantino's "Inglourious Basterds," do one thing and one thing only: kill Nazis. And with downloadable content, they can go after history's most-hated man, Adolf Hitler. Hitler's thankfully not around to sue over a game in which he can be snuffed in a variety of brutal ways. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Real people in video games David Petraeus – Like Noriega, former CIA director and four-star Gen. David Petraeus also appears in fictional form in "Call of Duty: Black Ops II." The year is 2025, and Petraeus is serving as secretary of defense under President Marion Bosworth. Petraeus was not involved in the making of the game. Things got awkward when a week before the game's release, Petraeus stepped down from the CIA amidst scandal over an extramarital affair. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Real people in video games 'Bruce Willis' – OK, as far as we know, there's not a real Bruno Delinger. But take a look at that photo, from last year's "Project X Zone," and follow along. Bruno, like "Project X Zone's" other characters, first appeared in another game, the lesser-known "Dynamite Cop." But that game was originally supposed to be "Die Hard," before Sega had trouble securing the rights to the 1988 movie starring, yep, Bruce Willis. (Note: Willis' 1987 blues album was called "The Return of Bruno.") Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Real people in video games Taylor Swift – "Band Hero" is a more kid-friendly spinoff of Activision's classic "Guitar Hero" series. Pop-country singer Taylor Swift and Maroon 5's Adam Levine are just a couple of the real-world artists whose images are used in the 2009 game. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Real people in video games No Doubt – Not all artists were so thrilled with "Band Hero," though. No Doubt and lead singer Gwen Stefani filed a lawsuit, saying they'd agreed to their likenesses being used with only three of their own songs. Instead, players could perform songs by other artists using a Stefani avatar. That included "Honky Tonk Women" by the Rolling Stones, which, the lawsuit claimed, amounted to "an unauthorised performance by the Gwen Stefani avatar in a male voice boasting about having sex with prostitutes." The suit was settled out of court. Hide Caption 13 of 13In 2007, Mitchell was featured in the documentary, " King of Kong ," which depicted him ruthlessly defending his Donkey Kong high score against Steve Wiebe, a sheepish family man from Seattle.Despite Mitchell's, at times, villainous efforts, Weibe eventually did become the new Donkey Kong world record holder, with a score of 1,064,500Despite losing some of his world record holdings, Mitchell believes his legacy will always outlast anyone else's high scores."To be the first one to get a perfect score on Pac-Man is significant, to be the first one to do a kill screen on Donkey Kong is significant," Mitchell said."It all comes back to that which is first."