Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A plane is lost. A girl is found in Nigeria. And Zika's headed to Europe. It's Thursday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. EgyptAirAn EgyptAir flight vanished overnight on its way from Paris to Cairo with 66 people aboard. This is what we know so far: There were no dangerous goods on it. It had a maintenance check done yesterday. The Egyptian military says it didn't receive a distress signal. The pilot didn't mention any problems. So, as you can tell, it's a bit of a mystery what happened. We have a live blog going with all the developments here2.Nigeria abducted schoolgirlsWhen Boko Haram abducted Amina Ali Nkeki more than two years ago, she was just a school girl. When she apparently wandered out of a forest asking for help this week, she had with her a baby and a man who claims to be her husband. She's one of the 276 schoolgirls Boko Haram kidnapped at gunpoint from a Chibok boarding school in April 2014. At least 57 were able to escape soon afterward. But more than 200 of them remain missing.3. Sri Lanka floodsHundreds of thousands have been forced from their homes by floodwaters and landslides after a major storm hammered Sri Lanka . At least 37 are dead and 21 are missing after three days of incessant rains. Fields and streets are submerged. And rescue workers are scrambling to get to people trapped in their homes by rising waters.There's more bad news: Monsoon season is just around the corner.JUST WATCHED Sri Lanka: Deadly landslides bury villages Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sri Lanka: Deadly landslides bury villages 01:174. ZikaEurope get ready: Zika's headed your way . That's what the World Health Organization said yesterday, predicting the virus would reach the continent by late spring. But there's good news: the risk of an outbreak will be low to moderate. So, keep calm and carry onJUST WATCHED NIH Director: Zika virus unprecedented Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NIH Director: Zika virus unprecedented 02:325. AbortionLooks like South Carolina will be the latest state to pass a law banning abortions after 19 weeks . The state legislature passed a bill yesterday, and Gov. Nikki Haley said she'll sign it. Sixteen states have moved to ban abortions after 19 weeks. Supporters say fetuses feel pain around 20 weeks. The medical community says it doubts that.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day:"I was like, 'You better pay me or I'm going to go public'"Robin Wright, who pulled a Claire Underwood and "House of Cards" star, who pulled a Claire Underwood and demanded equal pay with her co-star, Kevin Spacey.Signed, sealed, deliveredA letter Columbus wrote 500 years ago, about how the world isn't flat, is back in Italy. It'd been stolen, replaced with a fake, and hiding out in the U.S.The cost of freedomAn original copy of the 13th Amendment and a copy of the Emancipation Proclamation are available to whoever can shell out some big bucksThe (really) in crowdThrilled to be checking into that exclusive hotel? Well, there might be an even more exclusive hotel within the hotel where the truly cool people hang out.Hey JudeIt's not always you're walking around on your property and stumble upon an entirely new species of dinosaur. They named it Judith.Mom was right (again)