(CNN) Only one holiday honors fallen American veterans, evokes family barbecues and marks the unofficial start of summer.From weather forecasts to safety hazards and ideas for last-minute plans, here's what to know for Memorial Day 2016:How to travelBe patient. If you thought the recent nightmares at airport security lines were bad, just wait (even more).Dan Morrison said the Denver airport was much more crowded than normal on Friday. He has TSA Precheck and was able to clear security in 10 minutes, but he said it usually only takes a minute.Dan Morrison said the Denver airport was much more crowded than normal on Friday. He has TSA Precheck and was able to clear security in 10 minutes, but he said it usually only takes a minute.John Ronshausen said it took him about 35 minutes to clear security Friday at Denver International Airport.John Ronshausen said it took him about 35 minutes to clear security Friday at Denver International Airport.Siobhan O'Neill said the line at Chicago Midway International Airport looked really long on Thursday, but she was able to get through security in 40 minutes.Siobhan O'Neill said the line at Chicago Midway International Airport looked really long on Thursday, but she was able to get through security in 40 minutes.Kym Jones waited in line for two hours at Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport on Friday.Kym Jones waited in line for two hours at Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport on Friday.Lisa Akey said she waited in line for 35 minutes Friday morning at LaGuardia Airport. She said the Transportation Safety Administration let people who had earlier flights go through lines faster.Lisa Akey said she waited in line for 35 minutes Friday morning at LaGuardia Airport. She said the Transportation Safety Administration let people who had earlier flights go through lines faster.Jeff Dashley missed his flight on Friday because of long lines at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.Jeff Dashley missed his flight on Friday because of long lines at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.It took Erin Fooch two hours to get through security at O'Hare on Friday morning. She just made her flight, but her boss wasn't so fortunate.It took Erin Fooch two hours to get through security at O'Hare on Friday morning. She just made her flight, but her boss wasn't so fortunate.Jeff Graveline was flying out of O'Hare International Airport on Friday, May 13, and he said he waited in the security line for 80 minutes. He had to sprint to his gate, but he made his flight.Jeff Graveline was flying out of O'Hare International Airport on Friday, May 13, and he said he waited in the security line for 80 minutes. He had to sprint to his gate, but he made his flight.This summer, air travel is expected to draw the most people ever, with 220 million expected to fly. And officials say the security line problem won't ease until at least mid-June.Now the good news, especially if you're planning a road trip: Expect the lowest gas prices since 2005, AAA spokesman Mark Jenkins said."The market remains well supplied, and the relatively lower cost of crude oil should keep summer prices lower than last year," he said.The weather will likely cooperateFor most of the country, Mother Nature will play nice this weekend.The only trouble area will be the coastal Southeast. Heavy rain and fierce winds will pummel beaches in the Carolinas, Georgia and northern Florida, CNN meteorologist Dave Hennen said.High chance of tropical or subtropical formation off the Southeast U.S. coastline. https://t.co/tW4KeGdBFb #AL91 pic.twitter.com/mzF6vsNNwh — NHC Atlantic Ops (@NHC_Atlantic) May 26, 2016"If you're heading to the beach for the holiday weekend, it could be wet and windy (with) dangerous surf conditions," he said.The rest of the East Coast and part of the Plains and Midwest will likely see scattered storms.Aside from that, the rest of the country will probably enjoy pleasant seasonal weather.What to rememberWith all the barbecues, vacations and retail sales celebrating Memorial Day, it can be easy to forget the holiday's real purpose -- honoring American service members who died in combat.Numbers of Americans who died in war 620,000: Civil War* 116,516: World War I* 405,399: World War II 36,574: Korean War 58,220: Vietnam conflict 383: Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm 4,424: Operation Iraqi Freedom 73: Operation New Dawn 2,349: Operation Enduring Freedom *More than half the U.S. deaths from the Civil War and World War I were from disease.Memorial Day's roots go back to 1866, when residents of Waterloo, New York, formally recognized those who died during the Civil War. Businesses closed. Residents decorated soldiers' graves.Two years later, Gen. John Alexander Logan officially proclaimed May 30, 1868, as Memorial Day in honor of fallen Union soldiers.For years, Southern states had a different Memorial Day to recognize the Confederate dead, but now they observe both . The Confederate memorial day is on various dates in April, May and June; Texas holds its Confederate Heroes Day in January.In 1971, Congress declared Memorial Day a national holiday to be celebrated the last Monday in May.How to stay safePhotos: Be careful before diving in Photos: Be careful before diving in Summer can be a time for bacteria and other microbes to flourish, from pools to picnics. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Be careful before diving in Ingredients of potato salad such as potatoes, pasta and eggs -- not mayonnaise -- are prone to contamination. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Be careful before diving in Listeria bacteria like to live in cooler temperatures and populate machinery, such as ice cream dispensers. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Be careful before diving in In the most severe cases of sunburn, people can develop blisters and need to be treated like burn victims. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Be careful before diving in Urine is not an antidote to the venom of a jellyfish. Rinsing the wound with saltwater or using vinegar can be effective. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Be careful before diving in Mold and bacteria love to grow on air conditioning filters, especially in the summer humidity. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Be careful before diving in Sea lice, also known as seabather's eruption, can cause an itchy rash. Hide Caption 7 of 7While Memorial Day kicks off the unofficial start of summer, it also marks the start of a much more sobering season: it marks the start of the worst time of year for traffic fatalitiesA new report by the National Safety Council estimates that 439 Americans will be killed on the road this weekend, the highest number since 2009 and about 100 more than in 2014. (The final number for 2015 is not yet known.) Another 50,500 will be seriously injured, the report predicts.Another record was set last week at American airports. The TSA reported finding 74 firearms in carry-on bags -- 65 loaded and 18 with a round chambered -- between May 20 and 26.The hazards aren't just on the road, of course. They can also be in the water. A recent study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said 80% of public swimming pools, lazy rivers, hot tubs/spas and water playgrounds had at least one violation when inspected.That's not to say the health experts don't want you to swim in public places. The CDC just wants you to check inspection reports before you do.Another big summer safety hazard: Food-borne illnesses caused by bacteria that love the outdoors and the summer heat.JUST WATCHED The dangers of E. coli Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The dangers of E. coli 01:24Ground beef and pork should be cooked to 160 degrees Fahrenheit; ground chicken and turkey to 165 degrees, according to Melinda Wilkins, director of the online science master's program in food safety at Michigan State University.Where to goChances are you already have plans. But if you don't, and want to get away, we've got a list of this year's top 10 U.S. beaches (according "Dr. Beach," otherwise known as professor and coastal expert Stephen P. Leatherman).Photos: Dr. Beach's top 10 beaches for 2016 Photos: Dr. Beach's top 10 beaches for 2016 10. Beachwalker Park, South Carolina – South of Charleston, South Carolina, on the southern end of Kiawah Island, you'll find miles of untouched beach at Beachwater Park. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Dr. Beach's top 10 beaches for 2016 9. Caladesi Island State Park, Florida – Caladesi Island State Park in Florida is reached by a long walk from Clearwater Beach, pedestrian ferry or private boat. The beach is crystalline quartz white sand but the big fun is the kayak and canoe trails through the mangroves. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Dr. Beach's top 10 beaches for 2016 8. Coopers Beach, New York – Coopers Beach is located in tony Southampton, on the south shore of Long Island, New York. Its white quartz sand offer some of the best public beach access in the Hamptons. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Dr. Beach's top 10 beaches for 2016 7. Coronado Beach, California – Most visitors cross the stunning Coronado Bridge to get to to San Diego's Coronado Beach. The Hotel del Coronado serves food and drinks on the beach. It's a great spot for celebrity watching. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Dr. Beach's top 10 beaches for 2016 6. Grayton Beach State Park, Florida – Development has been restrained at Grayton Beach State Park on the Florida panhandle, so the white sand dunes still dominate the landscape. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Dr. Beach's top 10 beaches for 2016 5. Coast Guard Beach, Massachusetts – Part of Cape Cod National Seashore, Coast Guard Beach is reached by bicycle or shuttle bus after parking at the Salt Pond Visitor's Center. The former Coast Guard station is still standing, and Nauset Marsh behind it is worth exploring to see the shorebirds. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Dr. Beach's top 10 beaches for 2016 4. Ocracoke Lifeguarded Beach, North Carolina – Once the home of Blackbeard the pirate, Ocracoke Lifeguarded Beach in the Outer Banks of North Carolina is a wild beach where big surf can be found late in the summer. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Dr. Beach's top 10 beaches for 2016 3. Kapalua Bay Beach, Hawaii – The snorkeling area at Kapalua Bay Beach on Maui, Hawaii, is protected by two headlands formed by lava flows into the sea. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Dr. Beach's top 10 beaches for 2016 2. Siesta Beach, Florida – Siesta Beach in Sarasota, Florida, has some of finest white sand and calmest, clear water in the country. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Dr. Beach's top 10 beaches for 2016 1. Hanauma Bay Nature Preserve, Hawaii – Although top-ranked Hanauma Bay Nature Preserve in Hawaii is a 10-mile drive from Waikiki Beach on Oahu, it's a world away with its marine protected area and limited parking. (Take the shuttle. It's worth it.) Hide Caption 10 of 10At the top of the list is Hanauma Bay Nature Preserve in Oahu, Hawaii.Can't get off the mainland? Eight of the other beaches are on the continental United States.What to eatMemorial Day is the second most popular holiday for grilling out, according to the Hearth, Patio & Barbecue Association. The most popular is Independence Day.Photos: Crib this rib style Photos: Crib this rib style How to cook ribs on the grill – For killer ribs, you don't need a giant, pro-style smoker. All it takes is a grill, some wood chips, and a disposable roasting pan filled with water to convert a into a makeshift smoker. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Crib this rib style After we figured out a way to turn the grill into a smoker, we also found a few ways to cut down on the time it takes to make this dish. Traditionally, Memphis dry-rub ribs are a 24-hour-plus project: The racks are rubbed with spices, left to sit overnight, and then slow-smoked for the better part of a day. Here's how we mimicked the smoky, pleasantly chewy results in less than half the time. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Crib this rib style St. Louis-style (as opposed to baby back or classic spareribs) refers to spareribs that have been trimmed of belly and skirt meat and excess cartilage. The minimal fuss involved in using them makes them our top choice for barbecue. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Crib this rib style Because the meat layer is so thin, an overnight rub is unnecessary. Applying the rub (a blend of salt, brown sugar, paprika, and other spices) just before cooking infuses plenty of sweet-spicy flavor. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Crib this rib style Thanks to our grill setup, we get great smoke flavor by grill-smoking the ribs for 1½ hours. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Crib this rib style We then transfer the ribs to a low oven to cook 2 to 3 hours more. Water added to the baking sheet helps keep the meat moist. Hide Caption 6 of 6Photos: Hot dog nation Photos: Hot dog nation The hot dog is a staple to American summer holidays. Take a look at hot dogs in America throughout history. Hide Caption 1 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation A Florida State Seminoles fan eats a hot dog prior to the 2013 Orange Bowl at Sun Life Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida. Hide Caption 2 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation A family enjoys hot dogs on Washington's Puget Sound in 1960. Hide Caption 3 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation U.S. President Barack Obama and British Prime Minister David Cameron eat hot dogs in 2012 while watching a college basketball game in Dayton, Ohio. Hide Caption 4 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation A vendor sells hot dogs at Candlestick Park in 1965 for the San Francisco Giants' season-opening home game against the Pittsburgh Pirates. Hide Caption 5 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation A man dressed as a "Star Wars" stormtrooper prepares a hot dog during the 2011 WonderCon in San Francisco. Hide Caption 6 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation Competitive eater Joey Chestnut competes in the 2012 Nathan's July Fourth hot dog eating contest at New York's Coney Island. Chestnut ate a record-tying 68 hot dogs to win. Hide Caption 7 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation David Dittman winces as he competes in a hot dog eating contest in Danville, Illinois, in 1957. Hide Caption 8 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation Judges in Chicago measure the length of the world's longest hot dog in 2003. At 16 feet and 1 inch, it bested the previous record of 15 feet, 3 inches. Hide Caption 9 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation The famous Coney Island hot dog stand in Aspen Park, Colorado, moved to the town of Bailey, Colorado, in 2006. Hide Caption 10 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation A Chicago police officer writes a traffic ticket for the Oscar Mayer Wienermobile in 2007. Hide Caption 11 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation Baseball fans eat hot dogs during a game at New York's Shea Stadium in 2003. Hide Caption 12 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation Andy Samberg, left, and Alec Baldwin perform in a "Saturday Night Live" skit called Hot Dog Family in 2005. Hide Caption 13 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation A Georgia State Fair attendee eats a corn dog in Atlanta in 2010. Hide Caption 14 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation A man in New York buys a hot dog from his car window in Lower Manhattan in 1962. Hide Caption 15 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation The Oscar Mayer Wienermoblie is seen in New York City during a celebration of its 75th birthday in 2011. Hide Caption 16 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation Then-New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg eats a hot dog at the weigh-in ceremony for the Nathan's July Fourth contest in 2013. Hide Caption 17 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation From left, Tim Janus, Joey Chestnut and Matt Stonie compete in the Nathan's hot dog eating contest in 2013. Hide Caption 18 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation Onion, Mustard and Ketchup race in the Hot Dog Derby during a 2008 Major League Baseball game between the Tampa Bay Rays and the Cleveland Indians in Cleveland. Hide Caption 19 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation A pair of dachshunds dressed as hot dogs participate in Ted and Amy's Annual Pet Costume Contest in Brewerton, New York, in 2012. Hide Caption 20 of 21 Photos: Hot dog nation Massachusetts Gov. Joseph Ely, left, and New York Gov. Franklin D. Roosevelt stop for a hot dog on the Mohawk Trail in Massachusetts, where the two campaigned together in 1932. Hide Caption 21 of 21But just because grills will light up across the country doesn't mean your diet is torched.The unofficial start of summer also means a plethora of healthy foods are now in season. Bring some zucchini, cherries and sweet corn to the cookout to add healthy options and feel less guilty the next day.