Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A historic visit. An important vote. A patriotic rebranding. It's Wednesday, and here are the five things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Campaign 20162. Massachusetts stabbings3. President ObamaJUST WATCHED Obama to make historic Hiroshima visit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama to make historic Hiroshima visit 01:454. BrazilToday's a big day in Brazilian politics. The Senate is set to vote on impeachment proceedings against President Dilma Rousseff. If the vote passes, she'll have to step down for up to six months while impeachment claims are investigated. Things aren't looking too hot on the Olympics front either. Ex-soccer star Rivaldo is warning everyone to stay away , saying Rio's too dangerous, after a teen girl was shot and killed over the weekend. And U.S. soccer star Hope Solo says she'll "begrudgingly" participate despite Zika fears.JUST WATCHED Why does Brazil want to impeach President Rousseff? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why does Brazil want to impeach President Rousseff? 01:065. NASAHere's today's science lesson: An exoplanet is a planet that orbits a star other than our own Sun, and the Kepler telescope has found a ton of them. Kepler's discovered 1,284 planets , NASA said yesterday, the most exoplanets announced at one time. Are any of them habitable? Way too soon to determine that, but Kepler is focused on finding rocky planets in the habitable zone -- the planetary sweet spot where water (and this thing called life) could exist.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day: "We all must understand that a symbol or gesture that one group of people may find harmless may offend others"Lt. Gen. Robert L. Caslen, who announced yesterday that 16 female, African-American cadets West Point superintendent, who announced yesterday that 16 female, African-American cadets would not be punished for appearing in a photo with raised fistsRed, white and brewDid you know drinking was patriotic? It is now, since Anheuser-Busch announced it's (temporarily) renaming Budweiser as America.All in agreementLeBron James couldn't do it. Neither could Michael Jordan. But Stephen Curry did. He's the first unanimous MVP winner in NBA history.Loosey gooseyWhen a baby goose got all tangled up in some string, the mother goose did what we all do when we need help -- she went to the policeWho needs nine lives?Rejoice, planet Earth. We've got a new World's Oldest Living Cat . He's Scooter, a thirtysomething Siamese from Texas.#FirstWorldProblemsGoogle changed its search results black, for some people, and (surprise!) the internet threw a hissy fit. Don't worry, says Google; it was just a test. Sheesh.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening today.Explosion explanationThe cause of the West, Texas, fertilizer plant explosion that killed 15 people three years ago will be revealed today at noon ET.CNN town hallAn "Anderson Cooper 360" town hall on prescription drug addiction starts at 9 tonight ET on CNN.AND FINALLY ...JUST WATCHED Being Moody: How a bill becomes a wall Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Being Moody: How a bill becomes a wall 05:58'I'm just a bill, yes I'm only a bill'Learn -- "School House Rock"-style -- how many hoops Donald Trump's Mexico wall idea will have to jump through to become reality.