Story highlights High-intensity tornadoes are rarely on the ground for more than a few milesA twister that hit West Liberty, Kentucky, stayed on the ground for 95 milesTwo other tornadoes left behind 49-mile paths of destructionLast week's tornadoes killed 41 people across 10 statesOne tornado stayed on the ground for 95 miles as it tore through towns in Kentucky and West Virginia. Two other twisters left behind 49-mile paths of destruction.The dynamically charged nature of Friday's atmosphere created an ideal environment for producing long-track, devastating tornadoes, according to the National Weather Service.Officials from the weather service identified at least 45 separate tornadoes in last week's deadly outbreak across the Midwest and South. The unusually severe storm system affected millions of people in 10 states, officials said.Neighborhoods were flattened. Schools were in ruins. Dozens died.The strongest tornado appears to be the one that hit Henryville, Indiana , with maximum winds at 175 mph. That tornado stayed on the ground for 49 miles across Washington, Scott, Clark and Jefferson counties in Indiana and Trimble County in Kentucky.Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Janet Clark stands in front of her home on Sunday, March 4, where she rode out Friday's EF4 tornado in Henryville, Indiana. Hide Caption 1 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Debris from the violent tornado remains scattered around a Henryville home on Sunday. Hide Caption 2 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Troy Lewis cuts up a tree on Sunday that fell when a tornado passed through Marysville, Indiana. Hide Caption 3 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Harrisburg, Illinois, residents face the daunting challenge of cleaning up after the prowerful storms. Hide Caption 4 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Leah Boylan looks at the damage to her sister's home on Saturday, March 3, after it was destroyed by a tornado in Henryville, Indiana. Dozens of people were killed as severe weather and tornadoes ripped through the South and Midwest on Friday, March 2. Hide Caption 5 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Melody Zollman, left, gets a hug from her sister Michelle Browning as they stand among the remains of Zollman's home in Henryville after it was destroyed by a tornado on Friday. Hide Caption 6 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Zollman hugs her cat Thumbelina after it was pulled from the debris of her home. Hide Caption 7 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Sarah Kutz helps her sister rescue possessions from her home, which was destroyed in the tornado that hit Henryville. Hide Caption 8 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A school bus is lodged in a home in Henryville where it came to rest after being tossed by Friday's tornado. Hide Caption 9 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Cupcakes, baked for a 12-year-old's birthday party, remain on the counter where they were left to cool moments before Friday's tornado destroyed the home. Hide Caption 10 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – iReporter Kevin Welz captured this image of the Henryville tornado as it touched down on Friday night. Hide Caption 11 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Steve Smith and J. J. Smith survey the damage to their home following the tornado that struck Henryville. Hide Caption 12 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A family portrait sits among the debris of a Henryville home. Hide Caption 13 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A car and school bus are overturned in the parking lot of a Henryville school. Hide Caption 14 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – An overnight storm shredded the roof of a business in Paulding County, Georgia. Hide Caption 15 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – High winds during an overnight storm system tore apart a Paulding County home. Hide Caption 16 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A tornado touched down in Madison County, Alabama, on Friday, causing widespread damage. The powerful storm system is moving across the United States, causing tornadoes from Alabama to Indiana and threatening more destruction. In Indiana, at least five deaths were reported. Hide Caption 17 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A tornado in Ooltewah,Tennessee, left this home destroyed on Friday. Hide Caption 18 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Debris is strewn as far as the eye can see in Ooltewah. Hide Caption 19 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Meridianville, Alabama, was hit hard by Friday's storm system. Hide Caption 20 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Tornado-force winds sheered this telephone pole in Madison County, Alabama. Hide Caption 21 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Behind this once welcoming exterior in Madison County lies the ruins of a home struck by Friday's storm. Hide Caption 22 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – iRepoterer Blair Scott took this photo of damaged cars at Buckhorn High School in Hunstville, Alabama, after the school was hit by one of Friday's tornadoes. Hide Caption 23 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Keith Huke, right, remained in the bed to his left, escaping with no injuries from the tornado that tore apart his home in Harrisburg, Illinois. Hide Caption 24 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Utility workers try to restore electricity to a tornado-damaged section of Harrisburg on Friday. Hide Caption 25 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Dale Barnfield, left, and his niece Linda Mayberry wait for an insurance adjuster outside Barnfield's tornado-damaged home in Harrisburg. Hide Caption 26 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Harrisburg residents continue to clean up after Thursday's tornado. Hide Caption 27 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A Harrisburg neighborhood lies in ruins Thursday after a tornado tore through the town. A monster storm system killed six people in Harrisburg and left at least seven others dead in two other states. Hide Caption 28 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A truck appears twisted like a toy Thursday in the storm's aftermath in Harrisburg. A tornado with winds up to 180 mph thrashed the southern Illinois town early Wednesday. Hide Caption 29 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Angela Davis, an iReporter from Marion, Illinois, went to Harrisburg after the storm because she said she has friends and family there. "It was kind of surreal," Davis wrote of the destruction. "We saw silos picked up/thrown around, gas pipes from gas stations, a truck wrapped around the tree." Hide Caption 30 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Up to 300 houses were damaged or destroyed in Harrisburg, authorities said. The tornado had a preliminary rating of EF4, the second most powerful on the rating scale, the National Weather Service said. Hide Caption 31 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Steve McDonald inspects what's left of his mother-in-law's house in Harrisburg. His in-law, Mary Osman, was among four women and two men killed in the hard-hit town. Hide Caption 32 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Josh Summers searches for his possessions after the tornado ripped through his Harrisburg neighborhood. The twister appeared to have been on the ground for several miles, a city official said. Hide Caption 33 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – The powerful storm leaves cars tossed about among collapsed houses and other debris Wednesday in Harrisburg. Hide Caption 34 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Downed trees crush a truck Wednesday after a tornado hit in Harveyville, Kansas. A state of emergency was declared in the town about 20 miles southwest of Topeka. Hide Caption 35 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Douglas Osman sifts through the wreckage of his grandmother's house Wednesday in Harrisburg. His grandmother, Mary Osman, was one of six people killed in the Illinois town. Hide Caption 36 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Carolyn Osman surveys the wreckage of the tornado that took her mother-in-law's life in Harrisburg, where some 100 people were also injured. Hide Caption 37 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Levi Fogle helps girlfriend Sarah Pearce leave a damaged house in Harrisburg. Fogle, Pearce and her three daughters went unharmed in the storm. Hide Caption 38 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – John Bonenberger checks out damage to a Harrisburg strip mall where his business was located. Hide Caption 39 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A house in Harrisburg lies in ruins in the tornado's aftermath. Hide Caption 40 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – An old family photo survives the destruction in Buffalo, Missouri. Hide Caption 41 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – The storm leaves a car battered in the music resort town of Branson, Missouri, in a photo from iReporter Danny Gassaway. Hide Caption 42 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Aerial photos taken by Air Evac Lifeteam in Stoddard County, Missouri, show the scope of storm damage. Hide Caption 43 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A tornado razed this house and above-ground swimming pool in Stoddard County. Hide Caption 44 of 44JUST WATCHED Snow complicates tornado recovery Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Snow complicates tornado recovery 01:22JUST WATCHED Tornado's power seen from basement Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tornado's power seen from basement 01:19JUST WATCHED Tornado survivor 'sucked' into air Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tornado survivor 'sucked' into air 03:03The twister rated EF-4 on the Enhanced Fujita scale, which weather service officials use to measure the intensity of tornadoes and the damage they are likely to cause.In Henryville, a school bus hurtled into a restaurant.The walls of Stephanie Decker's home crashed down. As she scrambled to protect her sons, the wreckage broke seven of her ribs and severed both of her legs.Winds scattered Lori Lynch's most treasured possessions. A woman found her high school diploma in Cincinnati -- more than 100 miles away, CNN affiliate WAVE reported.The EF-3 tornado that struck the small town of West Liberty, Kentucky, packed winds of 140 mph and stuck to the earth for 95 miles -- 60 miles in Kentucky and 35 miles into West Virginia.The twister left normally tranquil West Liberty looking like "a war zone," Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear told reporters Sunday.National Guard troops helped the town comb through debris while authorities investigated storm fatalities."In all the years I've been coroner, I've never seen bodies in the condition they're in," said Raymond Van Cleave, the coroner for Morgan County, Kentucky.Just 20 miles south of West Liberty, another long-track EF-3 tornado swept through Salyersville, Kentucky, packing 160 mph winds. That twister was also on the ground for 49 miles, with a 48-mile track through Kentucky and an additional mile into West Virginia, officials said.It struck a group of rescuers who were heading to West Liberty, throwing their truck across the street."It kept peppering us with debris and rocks and dirt and stuff. It was just something unreal. I'd never been through anything like that," 1st Lt. Tommy Hereford told CNN affiliate WLEXThe 45 twisters confirmed by the weather service were among 144 reports of tornadoes, which may include multiple reports of the same tornado, in last week's outbreak, which started Friday.By the time calm returned Saturday, 41 were dead: 23 in Kentucky, 13 in Indiana, three in Ohio, and one each in Alabama and Georgia.Federal and local officials were still assessing the damage Wednesday.Less than 1% of the tornadoes that form each year reach EF-4 or EF-5 intensity, and few are on the ground for more than a few miles.The tornado with the longest recorded path in U.S. history was the Tri-State Tornado of 1925 , which was rated an F-5 on the Fujita scale -- the previous model for tornado intensity -- and was on the ground for 219 miles over a 3½-hour period. That twister still stands as the single deadliest tornado, responsible for 695 deaths when it tore through Missouri, Illinois and Indiana.