Story highlights Accused school shooter T.J. Lane headed back to court TuesdayHe is accused of three counts of aggravated murder, among other chargesA service for Demetrius C. Hewlin is held on TuesdayAccused Ohio school shooter T.J. Lane was in juvenile court Tuesday for a pretrial hearing as prosecutors moved to limit the release of more information about the suspect.Seated with his attorney and positioned in front of his grandparents, Lane, 17, wore a beige shirt and appeared to address the court politely during its ongoing deliberations over last month's shooting at Chardon High School.He is charged with three counts of aggravated murder, two of attempted aggravated murder and one of felonious assault.Authorities released police reports and court records last week that showed Lane had a troubled childhood.JUST WATCHED Mystery still surrounds Ohio killings Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mystery still surrounds Ohio killings 02:13JUST WATCHED Ohio school shooter charged with murder Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ohio school shooter charged with murder 01:19When he was 15, Lane was charged with juvenile assault for putting his uncle in a choke hold and punching him in the face, according to an incident report from the Geauga County Sheriff's Office. His parents also had both been charged with domestic violence against each other, according to court documents. His father also served prison time for assaulting a police officer and was charged in an assault on another woman.At the time of the shooting, Lane was living with his grandparents.Prosecutors filed a motion Monday to block the media from access to other records related to Lane, CNN affiliate WOIO reported. Prosecutors argued that Lane was already under "public scrutiny" and the release of more information "would only magnify the situation for him and his relatives," the affiliate reported.A probable cause hearing is scheduled for April 3, prosecutors said.A funeral mass for 16-year-old Demetrius C. Hewlin, one of the victims, coincided with Tuesday's proceedings.