Story highlights 15 are dead in Indiana, 12 in Kentucky and one in Ohio, authorities sayNational Guard troops are deployed in Kentucky, others are ready in IndianaA toddler girl is found without ID in a field in Indiana, authorities sayA National Weather Service meteorologist calls the twister outbreak "crazy"A devastating storm system moved across the United States on Friday, spawning a slew of tornadoes that contributed to at least 28 fatalities in Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio.National Weather Service meteorologist John Gordon reported Friday afternoon the agency had about "half a dozen reports of tornadoes on the ground," as well as reports of "significant damage" -- making his comments before some of the worst twisters were reported."This is an enormous outbreak that's going on right now across Kentucky and the South," Gordon said. "It's crazy. It's just nuts right here."Southern Indiana was particularly hard hit, with Indiana Department of Homeland Security spokesman John Erickson saying three had died in Jefferson County as a result. Sgt. Rod Russell with the Indiana State Police said later that three people also were killed in Scott County.JUST WATCHED Well built homes 'wiped' to the ground Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Well built homes 'wiped' to the ground 01:11JUST WATCHED Possible funnel cloud captured on camera Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Possible funnel cloud captured on camera 01:20JUST WATCHED Girls describe grandparents' escape Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Girls describe grandparents' escape 02:21In addition, Emergency Management Director Leslie Cavanaugh of Clark County -- which has about 110,000 people -- reported one death. Sheriff's Department Maj. Chuck Adams added that a man was found dead in his car several miles outside Henryville."We've got total devastation in the north-ceindntral part of the county (and) widespread damage from the west to the east," added Adams. "We are inundated with calls."At least 15 people were killed across Indiana, authorities said.Aerial footage from CNN affiliate WLKY showed structures torn to shreds and large swaths of trees knocked down in Henryville, about 20 miles north of Louisville, Kentucky.Other aerial images showed similar devastation in St. Paul, Indiana. Several officials -- including Jeffersonville, Indiana, Mayor Mike Moore, U.S. Sen. Dan Coats and Adams -- indicated that the town of Marysville suffered especially significant damage.Cavanaugh also said that the local high school, Henryville Junior-Senior High School, had been "demolished."According to Sara Reschar, an administrative assistant for the West Clark Community Schools, "students were already out of the school when the storm hit" -- having been dismissed about 15 minutes earlier. Adams said there were some "scrapes and scratches," but no serious injuries as a result.Authorities used thermal imaging equipment, search dogs and other means Friday night to look for a 9-year-old boy in Henryville whose whereabouts was unknown after the tornadoes came through, Adams said.Amid the devastation, there was also some hope -- in the form of a 20-month-old girl found alone, and without identification, in a field in Salem, about 20 miles from Henryville.Adam said the girl was intubated and then flown to Kosair Children's Hospital in Louisville. He said that people since had called in to identify the girl, while adding he did not know her current condition.About four hours after the National Weather Service said a twister touched down in Indiana's Posey County, Gov. Mitch Daniels said crews "are racing the nightfall" to assess the damage and help those in need. Sgt. First Class Tina Eichenour of the Indiana National Guard said that roughly 250 troops have been called to duty, destined for towns such as Henryville and Marysville."I am constantly amazed by both the unpredictability and the ferocity that Mother Nature can unleash, when she chooses to," Daniels said of the severe weather.His counterpart in Kentucky, Gov. Steve Beshear, on Friday declared a statewide emergency to facilitate local authorities' access to state resources. The governor has authorized the deployment of 50 National Guard troops to go to Morgan County to join a 12-person search and rescue team out of Lexington.Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Janet Clark stands in front of her home on Sunday, March 4, where she rode out Friday's EF4 tornado in Henryville, Indiana. Hide Caption 1 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Debris from the violent tornado remains scattered around a Henryville home on Sunday. Hide Caption 2 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Troy Lewis cuts up a tree on Sunday that fell when a tornado passed through Marysville, Indiana. Hide Caption 3 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Harrisburg, Illinois, residents face the daunting challenge of cleaning up after the prowerful storms. Hide Caption 4 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Leah Boylan looks at the damage to her sister's home on Saturday, March 3, after it was destroyed by a tornado in Henryville, Indiana. Dozens of people were killed as severe weather and tornadoes ripped through the South and Midwest on Friday, March 2. Hide Caption 5 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Melody Zollman, left, gets a hug from her sister Michelle Browning as they stand among the remains of Zollman's home in Henryville after it was destroyed by a tornado on Friday. Hide Caption 6 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Zollman hugs her cat Thumbelina after it was pulled from the debris of her home. Hide Caption 7 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Sarah Kutz helps her sister rescue possessions from her home, which was destroyed in the tornado that hit Henryville. Hide Caption 8 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A school bus is lodged in a home in Henryville where it came to rest after being tossed by Friday's tornado. Hide Caption 9 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Cupcakes, baked for a 12-year-old's birthday party, remain on the counter where they were left to cool moments before Friday's tornado destroyed the home. Hide Caption 10 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – iReporter Kevin Welz captured this image of the Henryville tornado as it touched down on Friday night. Hide Caption 11 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Steve Smith and J. J. Smith survey the damage to their home following the tornado that struck Henryville. Hide Caption 12 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A family portrait sits among the debris of a Henryville home. Hide Caption 13 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A car and school bus are overturned in the parking lot of a Henryville school. Hide Caption 14 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – An overnight storm shredded the roof of a business in Paulding County, Georgia. Hide Caption 15 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – High winds during an overnight storm system tore apart a Paulding County home. Hide Caption 16 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A tornado touched down in Madison County, Alabama, on Friday, causing widespread damage. The powerful storm system is moving across the United States, causing tornadoes from Alabama to Indiana and threatening more destruction. In Indiana, at least five deaths were reported. Hide Caption 17 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A tornado in Ooltewah,Tennessee, left this home destroyed on Friday. Hide Caption 18 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Debris is strewn as far as the eye can see in Ooltewah. Hide Caption 19 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Meridianville, Alabama, was hit hard by Friday's storm system. Hide Caption 20 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Tornado-force winds sheered this telephone pole in Madison County, Alabama. Hide Caption 21 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Behind this once welcoming exterior in Madison County lies the ruins of a home struck by Friday's storm. Hide Caption 22 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – iRepoterer Blair Scott took this photo of damaged cars at Buckhorn High School in Hunstville, Alabama, after the school was hit by one of Friday's tornadoes. Hide Caption 23 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Keith Huke, right, remained in the bed to his left, escaping with no injuries from the tornado that tore apart his home in Harrisburg, Illinois. Hide Caption 24 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Utility workers try to restore electricity to a tornado-damaged section of Harrisburg on Friday. Hide Caption 25 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Dale Barnfield, left, and his niece Linda Mayberry wait for an insurance adjuster outside Barnfield's tornado-damaged home in Harrisburg. Hide Caption 26 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Harrisburg residents continue to clean up after Thursday's tornado. Hide Caption 27 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A Harrisburg neighborhood lies in ruins Thursday after a tornado tore through the town. A monster storm system killed six people in Harrisburg and left at least seven others dead in two other states. Hide Caption 28 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A truck appears twisted like a toy Thursday in the storm's aftermath in Harrisburg. A tornado with winds up to 180 mph thrashed the southern Illinois town early Wednesday. Hide Caption 29 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Angela Davis, an iReporter from Marion, Illinois, went to Harrisburg after the storm because she said she has friends and family there. "It was kind of surreal," Davis wrote of the destruction. "We saw silos picked up/thrown around, gas pipes from gas stations, a truck wrapped around the tree." Hide Caption 30 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Up to 300 houses were damaged or destroyed in Harrisburg, authorities said. The tornado had a preliminary rating of EF4, the second most powerful on the rating scale, the National Weather Service said. Hide Caption 31 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Steve McDonald inspects what's left of his mother-in-law's house in Harrisburg. His in-law, Mary Osman, was among four women and two men killed in the hard-hit town. Hide Caption 32 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Josh Summers searches for his possessions after the tornado ripped through his Harrisburg neighborhood. The twister appeared to have been on the ground for several miles, a city official said. Hide Caption 33 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – The powerful storm leaves cars tossed about among collapsed houses and other debris Wednesday in Harrisburg. Hide Caption 34 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Downed trees crush a truck Wednesday after a tornado hit in Harveyville, Kansas. A state of emergency was declared in the town about 20 miles southwest of Topeka. Hide Caption 35 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Douglas Osman sifts through the wreckage of his grandmother's house Wednesday in Harrisburg. His grandmother, Mary Osman, was one of six people killed in the Illinois town. Hide Caption 36 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Carolyn Osman surveys the wreckage of the tornado that took her mother-in-law's life in Harrisburg, where some 100 people were also injured. Hide Caption 37 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Levi Fogle helps girlfriend Sarah Pearce leave a damaged house in Harrisburg. Fogle, Pearce and her three daughters went unharmed in the storm. Hide Caption 38 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – John Bonenberger checks out damage to a Harrisburg strip mall where his business was located. Hide Caption 39 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A house in Harrisburg lies in ruins in the tornado's aftermath. Hide Caption 40 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – An old family photo survives the destruction in Buffalo, Missouri. Hide Caption 41 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – The storm leaves a car battered in the music resort town of Branson, Missouri, in a photo from iReporter Danny Gassaway. Hide Caption 42 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – Aerial photos taken by Air Evac Lifeteam in Stoddard County, Missouri, show the scope of storm damage. Hide Caption 43 of 44 Photos: Tornadoes take deadly toll Tornadoes take deadly toll – A tornado razed this house and above-ground swimming pool in Stoddard County. Hide Caption 44 of 44JUST WATCHED Heavy hail pummels Nashville Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Heavy hail pummels Nashville 00:50JUST WATCHED Apparent tornado damages Alabama homes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Apparent tornado damages Alabama homes 00:54"The storm system hasn't cleared Kentucky yet, but we obviously have reports of some heavy damage," Beshear told CNN's Erin Burnett.At least 12 people were killed in Kentucky tied to Friday's severe weather, authorities said.Shawn Harley, from the National Weather Service, confirmed that people were trapped in damaged buildings after a large tornado struck the small town of West Liberty in eastern Kentucky.There was no immediate word on casualties as a result. Chuck Wolfe, a spokesman for the Kentucky Emergency Management Agency, said state authorities had lost contact with the town.Wolfe said officials believe the town "got hit pretty heavily." Beshear is expected to visit West Liberty to assess the damage Saturday.Separately, a man in his 50s was found dead in his mobile home in Bethel, Ohio, the Clermont County Commissioners said in a press release.In Tennessee, severe weather was responsible for critical injuries of as many as eight people in the cities of Harrison and Oolteweh, officials there said.The storm brought golf-ball-size hail, strong winds and rain into the two northeast Alabama counties before continuing on a northeastward path into Tennessee.Tennessee Emergency Management spokesman Jeremy Heidt said there were reports of possible tornado touchdowns in nine counties total. At least 29 people were injured across the state, according to Dean Flener, also with TEMA.Between 40 and 50 homes in Hamilton County, Tennessee, have "significant damage that we know about," the county's Chief of Emergency Management Bill Tittle told CNN.Reporting from that area near Chattanooga, CNN's Rob Marciano observed a continuous stretch of damage about 200 yards wide that ripped what had been brick-and-mortar homes down to their foundations.Tittle said that there are 24 reported injuries and, while none of them appears to be life-threatening, he acknowledged that "we have not reached all the homes.""We obviously have lots of debris, homes with roof damage, streets that are impassable that we have crews cutting down trees with chainsaws in order to get emergency vehicles through, and as of now our crews are just going door-to-door on foot," said Amy Maxwell, Hamilton County, Tennessee, emergency management spokeswoman.Maxwell later said six to 10 people were at local hospitals after suffering injuries, and a triage area was set up at Ooltewah High School to treat patients on the scene.Hamilton County Mayor Jim Coppinger said a touchdown of a tornado had been confirmed, though he expressed optimism that sound preparation and safety measures appeared thus far to prevent any deaths."We're just working diligently at this hour to try to make sure that everyone is accounted for," Coppinger told CNN. "And hopefully we'll be able to escape (without fatalities)."JUST WATCHED Man survives trailer flipping 5 times Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man survives trailer flipping 5 times 01:06JUST WATCHED Branson mayor: We were fortunate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Branson mayor: We were fortunate 02:03JUST WATCHED Harrisburg hopeful despite damage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Harrisburg hopeful despite damage 02:39JUST WATCHED Survivor: 'Half the roof was coming off' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Survivor: 'Half the roof was coming off' 03:06Meanwhile, Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley said there have been seven injuries and about 40 homes destroyed but no fatalities after two tornadoes touched down in his state Friday morning."The April 27 tornado and the track of the two this morning were exactly the same," Bentley told CNN, referring to last year's twisters that left at least 238 dead.Both Buckhorn High School in Madison County and the Limestone County Correctional Facility in an adjacent Alabama county were hit Friday.There was also widespread damage in Madison County, the National Weather Service said, and some injuries were reported, according to a local ambulance service.The Madison County Emergency Management Agency confirmed that a rain-wrapped tornado was spotted near the Harvest area, just northwest of Huntsville, which itself was hit hard by a tornado last year."The key thing that let me know it was serious was the loud wind," said Hovet Dixon of Harvey, Alabama. "It almost seemed like it was trying to lift my roof off."The warden for the Limestone Correctional Facility, Dorothy Goode, said the prison was hit by the storm. All prisoners -- the facility holds about 2,200 -- were accounted for, she said.Storms are expected to begin to weaken during the late evening as they move east toward the Appalachians. The severe weather threat should diminish overnight Friday into Saturday morning, Morris said.These tornadoes follow an earlier outbreak that began Tuesday night and left 13 dead across Kansas, Missouri, Illinois and Tennessee and battered parts of Kentucky.