By Joyce Burges, Special to CNNEditor’s Note: Joyce Burges is the co-founder of the is the co-founder of the National Black Home Educators , an organization that empowers parents to educate their children for excellence. She and her husband, Eric, have been married for 35 years and have five children between the ages of 16 to 35.It was a rainy afternoon. I was rocking my baby girl by the fire and enjoying a cup of hot chamomile tea. To me, life couldn’t get any better than this. Our three older children were in school, “getting a good education.” I received a call from my oldest son’s school. I was told that my husband and I needed to come to a school meeting. Unpleasant thoughts flooded my mind. But I was comforted because we were active in our children’s school. I was PTO president and chairman of the advisory board. So all was well, right?Nothing could have prepared me for what I was about to hear at this meeting. We thought that being involved as parents assured our children of an excellent education. I was mistaken. When we had met with the teachers, they informed us that our son Eric Jr. was doing fine academically. His 3.0 GPA dropped to 2.8 during the first six weeks of school. To me, this was a workable issue because we were still in the first semester. At this latest meeting, we were informed that our son was “failing.” According to his counselor, this was a “blight” on this school’s reputation. The school gave us two choices: We could place our son in a school across town, or he would have to repeat this grade next year. These options left me feeling that there was no hope for our son. I pleaded and said that we would work with him to raise his grade point average. This would not do. The administration’s position was firm. I begin to cry. My confidence was shattered. I thought that we had failed our son, and that we were unfit to be a part of this school system.We discussed this problem when we got home that evening. Something began to stir my heart -- a vision of me keeping my children at home with me. I was tired of raising money for equipment when overburdened teachers were making copies of books for children in overstuffed classrooms, and I was exhausted with rising early in the morning to whisk my children away to school.Read More