(CNN) Hankering for a trip across the pond? It's now cheaper than ever to fly across the Atlantic. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Aretha FranklinWhat's the proper way to say good-bye to a queen? When it's the Queen of Soul, the only right way is through song. And that's what people around the world did as word got out that Aretha Franklin had died of pancreatic cancer at age 76. It seemed like Franklin's music was everywhere -- car radios blasting "Respect," women walking down the street humming "(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman ," her classic "Think" on a virtual loop on TV.Franklin's career lasted more than half a century, yielding 88 Billboard chart hits and 18 Grammy awards. In her peak, from the late '60s to mid '70s, she had more than two dozen Top 40 hits. But more than all that, she was a cultural touchstone. Her music energized both the civil rights and women's rights movements , and her voice became the paradigm that all singers who came after her compared themselves to. You can read more about her remarkable life here , click through photos and check out tributes from around the world.2. Politicsbig military parade President Trump wanted. Instead of having it this Veterans Day, it's The Defense Department postponed thePresident Trump wanted. Instead of having it this Veterans Day, it's being pushed to sometime in 2019 . A reported $92 million price tag and pushback from the American Legion probably didn't help. But that's not all that's going on ...Security clearances: The man who oversaw the bin Laden raid slammed President Trump over revoking the security clearance of ex-CIA Director John Brennan. : The man who oversaw the bin Laden raid slammed President Trump over revoking the security clearance of ex-CIA Director John Brennan. Retired Adm. William McRaven , in a Washington Post op-ed , defended Brennan, declared Trump had embarrassed the nation and said he'd "consider it an honor" if the President took his security clearance, too. Word is more clearances could be stripped from others in the coming days.JUST WATCHED Ret. Lt. Gen. to Trump: Take my clearance too Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ret. Lt. Gen. to Trump: Take my clearance too 01:45Omarosa: A day after losing the news cycle to the security clearances story, Omarosa Manigault Newman snatched it back by : A day after losing the news cycle to the security clearances story, Omarosa Manigault Newman snatched it back by releasing a new audio recording . In this one, Lara Trump, President Trump's daughter-in-law, is heard discussing a job offer, which Manigault Newman claims was a hush agreement. The New York Times reports the ex-White House aide could have as many as 200 recordings , so this might go on for a while.JUST WATCHED Hear Lara Trump discuss salary with Omarosa Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hear Lara Trump discuss salary with Omarosa 01:54JUST WATCHED Where in the world are Paul Manafort's socks? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Where in the world are Paul Manafort's socks? 01:463. ChinaJUST WATCHED US Navy plane warned off by Chinese military Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US Navy plane warned off by Chinese military 01:064. Clergy sex abuseJUST WATCHED Priest abuse victims share emotional stories Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Priest abuse victims share emotional stories 01:475. Drug overdosesDrug overdose deaths in the US rose almost 7% in 2017 , according to a report from the CDC. And they've nearly doubled over the last decade. The reason for the increase isn't a surprise -- it's the opioid epidemic . Opioids -- which include prescription painkillers, heroin and other illegal synthetic drugs -- account for almost 68% of the total deaths.JUST WATCHED Addict who gave baby to cop now sober Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Addict who gave baby to cop now sober 03:40BREAKFAST BROWSEBad movieSo much for seeing a movie every day. MoviePass is changing its service again. Now, it limits the films and showtimes that are available each day.JUST WATCHED What went wrong with MoviePass Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What went wrong with MoviePass 02:38Free rideIf you can get into NYU's med school, you don't have to worry about tuition. The school just made tuition free for all its medical students.Deaf jamMeet the man who is bringing the music of Chance the Rapper and others to the deaf community.JUST WATCHED Meet the man bringing Chance the Rapper's music to the deaf community Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Meet the man bringing Chance the Rapper's music to the deaf community 01:35Dress you upThe Air Force feels like its dress blues look too much like business suits, so it's stepping back in time for inspiration to give the uniforms a new look.TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeMadonna is holding a fundraiser for Malawi's children to celebrate what?A. her new albumB. her 60th birthdayC. her new movieD. her new clothing linePlay " Total Recall: The CNN news quiz " to see if you're right. And don't forget, you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."TODAY'S QUOTE"There are hundreds, thousands rather, of bridges at risk of collapse."Settimo Martinello, director of a company that inspects 50,000 bridges in Italy, warning after the fatal Morandi Bridge collapse that other bridges in the country are in danger of failing , tooJUST WATCHED Startling images of bridge collapse Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Startling images of bridge collapse 02:06IT'S THE WEEKEND, BABYHeaded to a theater this weekend? If you're a fan of Mark Wahlberg, you'll love " Mile 22 ," CNN's Brian Lowry says. And "Crazy Rich Asians" is in theaters, too; despite all the cultural significance attached to it, Lowry says it's really just a good, old-school rom-com . On the small screen, Netflix premieres "The Simpsons" creator Matt Groening's new show, " Disenchantment ."JUST WATCHED Mark Wahlberg back in action in 'Mile 22' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mark Wahlberg back in action in 'Mile 22' 01:50AND FINALLYIf the shoe fits ...