(CNN) The Jacksonville, Florida, gaming tournament where two men were killed and nine others were shot Sunday started like any other high-stakes sporting event, with competitors expressing a combination of confidence, excitement and nerves as play got underway.But then the shooting started at the GLHF Game Bar at Jacksonville Landing, near the end of the first quarter of the qualifying round for the Madden NFL 19 Classic. The match was being streamed online , and the audience could hear the gunshots as the video football game filled the screen.Here's how the shooting unfolded on social media.August 25, 2018, the day before the shootingTony Montagnino, who goes by the name "G-Tech," was worried about getting to the tournament on time. His flight from Dallas/Ft. Worth to Jacksonville was delayed because of a problem with the plane's bathroom."I don't know why I'm stressing...no madden tourney in the history of mankind has ever started on time right?" he said in a Tweet"Won every game by max no one crossed the 50 or scored a point. Waiting for singles for tomorrow."Won every game by max no one crossed the 50 or scored a point. Waiting for singles for tomorrow. — True (@True__818) August 25, 2018Top players Drini Gjoka, who goes by "Young Drini," and George "Fitzmagic13" Amadeo were getting psyched up for Sunday's play.One game at a time. Let's ball. — Fitzmagic13 (@fitzmagic13) August 26, 2018August 26, 2018 -- Game Day1:22 p.m. -- Gjoka tweeted about his first win and was excited about going to the next round.Won my first single elim game 16-9. Off to Round of 32 — Drini Gjoka (@YoungDrini) August 26, 2018Timothy "olarry" Anselimo was lamenting a late fumble in his game.Smh fumbled on the 1 clocking to go up 10 and seal the game 👿 gg @gos_madden — LARRY LEGEND (@oLARRY2K) August 26, 2018The shooting started a few minutes later.JUST WATCHED Mass shooting at Madden video game tournament Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mass shooting at Madden video game tournament 01:321:37 p.m. -- "The tourney just got shot up," Gjoka said in the first of a series of tweets. "Im leavinng (sic) and never coming back.The tourney just got shot up. Im leavinng and never coming back — Drini Gjoka (@YoungDrini) August 26, 20181:41 p.m. -- "I am literally so lucky. The bullet hit my thumb," Gjoka said.I am literally so lucky. The bullet hit my thumb — Drini Gjoka (@YoungDrini) August 26, 20182:01 p.m. -- "I will never take anything for granted ever again. Life can be cut short in a second," he tweeted.I will never take anything for granted ever again. Life can be cut short in a second — Drini Gjoka (@YoungDrini) August 26, 20182:13 p.m. -- The Jacksonville Sheriff's Office tweeted that there had been a mass shooting at the Jacksonville Landing and urged people to avoid the area. The sheriff's office later announced that the gunman, another player in the tournament, had fatally shot himself.Mass shooting at the Jacksonville Landing. Stay far away from the area. The area is not safe at this time. STAY AWAY #TheLandingMassShooting — Jax Sheriff's Office (@JSOPIO) August 26, 20182:17 p.m. -- Anselimo's mother, who created the Twitter account " -- Anselimo's mother, who created the Twitter account " olarrysmom " in April to keep up with his gaming career, tweeted that her son had been shot three times.My son was shot 3 times please keep him in your prayers — Sujeil (@olarrysmom) August 26, 20184:15 p.m -- Amadeo's sister, Nina-Marie, tweeted that he had been shot and that she was making arrangements to fly to Jacksonville with their mother. -- Amadeo's sister, Nina-Marie, tweeted that he had been shot and that she was making arrangements to fly to Jacksonville with their mother. She asked for prayers and financial helpMy little brother was shot today in the mass shooting in Jacksonville. My mom and I are flying down there ASAP. Please pray. Accepting donations: venmo nina-marie-amadeo or PayPal nmamadeo@gmail.com — Nina-Marie Amadeo (@NinaMarie716) August 26, 20184:28 p.m. -- Montagnino tweeted that he was shot twice, but would be okay. "I'm good... got hit twice. Lower body. One went through. The other was lodged."I'm good... got hit twice. Lower body. One went through. The other was lodged — G-tech (@maddenvtech) August 26, 20184:36 p.m. -- Nina-Marie Amadeo, a student at Wellesley College, said that her brother was stable, but needed surgery."I maxed out my card just booking the emergency tickets there for my mom and myself. We're going to need money for tickets back to NJ and medical bills. I'm handling logistics because my mom is in a panic, I'm just in shock," she tweeted.My brother @fitzmagic13 is stable but needs surgery. I maxed out my card just booking the emergency tickets there for my mom and myself. We're going to need money for tickets back to NJ and medical bills. I'm handling logistics because my mom is in a panic, I'm just in shock. — Nina-Marie Amadeo (@NinaMarie716) August 26, 20184:49 p.m. -- Nina-Marie Amadeo said that the Wellesley community "really rallied behind my family and I" to provide the funds they needed to get to her brother.The @Wellesley community has really rallied behind my family and I -- thank you so much. We're no longer in need of funds at the moment. Depending on medical bills, will update. — Nina-Marie Amadeo (@NinaMarie716) August 26, 20187:56 p.m. -- Montagnino asked his friends if they knew how Amadeo was doing.Can someone update me on @fitzmagic13? — G-tech (@maddenvtech) August 26, 20188:00 p.m. -- Anselimo's mom posted a picture of him in a hospital bed, surrounded by friends. His right hand is bandaged, but he's giving the "thumbs up" sign with his left. -- Anselimo's mom posted a picture of him in a hospital bed, surrounded by friends. His right hand is bandaged, but he's giving the "thumbs up" sign with his left. God was with these guys today, she tweetedGod was with these guys today pic.twitter.com/YrWlphteBT — Sujeil (@olarrysmom) August 27, 2018The governor of Florida with my son @oLARRY2K pic.twitter.com/nP0VCLUyYY — Sujeil (@olarrysmom) August 27, 20189:13 p.m. -- Anselimo's mother posted a picture of his backpack, which was covered in his blood.My sons Bucks gaming book bag with his blood from being shot pic.twitter.com/1oJSocbf3h — Sujeil (@olarrysmom) August 27, 201811:32 p.m. -- Amadeo tweeted that -- Amadeo tweeted that he would have surgery on his foot on Monday morning and that everything should be okay."Praying for all involved including Spotme and Trueboy. My sister @NinaMarie716 has been keeping you guys updated. I was about 5 feet away from the shooter and my dad jumped on me... he didn't get shot. I'm heartbroken," he said.Have surgery on my foot tomorrow, everything should be ok. Praying for all involved including Spotme and Trueboy. My sister @NinaMarie716 has been keeping you guys updated. I was about 5 feet away from the shooter and my dad jumped on me... he didn't get shot. Im heartbroken. — Fitzmagic13 (@fitzmagic13) August 27, 2018August 27, 201812:39 a.m. -- "Still doesn't feel real," . -- "Still doesn't feel real," Montagnino tweeted . "Saw a lot of things today I wish I hadn't seen. But I also saw a community of people rally around each other and a massive amount of support from friends and family to check on everyone. I'm thankful for everyone of you guys in the community. I love y'all."Still doesn't feel real. Saw a lot of things today I wish I hadn't seen. But I also saw a community of people rally around each other and a massive amount of support from friends and family to check on everyone. I'm thankful for everyone of you guys in the community.I love y'all — G-tech (@maddenvtech) August 27, 20181:57 a.m. -- -- Anselimo tweeted "Devastated. No Words. Surgery In The Morning. Thanks To All Who Reached Out."Devastated. No Words. Surgery In The Morning. Thanks To All Who Reached Out. — LARRY LEGEND (@oLARRY2K) August 27, 2018About to go into surgery. Prayers appreciated. — Fitzmagic13 (@fitzmagic13) August 27, 20189:17 a.m. -- "Still in shock," -- "Still in shock," Anselimo tweeted . "Woke up crying knowing today's surgery will determine if I'll ever be able to play video games again."Still in shock. Woke up crying knowing today's surgery will determine if I'll ever be able to play video games again. — LARRY LEGEND (@oLARRY2K) August 27, 201812:48 p.m. -- Anselimo's mom tweeted that he just went into surgery.Prayers up my boy @oLARRY2K just went into surgery — Sujeil (@olarrysmom) August 27, 20181:16 p.m. -- Amadeo got out of surgery and -- Amadeo got out of surgery and thanked everyone for their prayersOut of surgery thanks for your prayers. If I don't respond to your message it doesn't mean that I didn't see it, means the world to me. — Fitzmagic13 (@fitzmagic13) August 27, 2018"Out of surgery thanks for your prayers. If I don't respond to your message it doesn't mean that I didn't see it, means the world to me," he tweeted.