(CNN) Poor Hawaii. Just as the 3-month-long volcano eruption slows down , a hurricane comes along . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Primary electionsIt was another night of tight races and close calls in primary and special elections ahead of November's midterms . The big takeaways: Two Trump-backed candidates are locked in tight, tight races. A special election for a congressional seat in Ohio is still too close to call, with the GOP's Troy Balderson (left, above) fewer than 2,000 votes ahead of Democrat Danny O'Connor. In Kansas, the Republican gubernatorial primary is also too close to call , with Trump-backed Kris Kobach fewer than 1,000 votes ahead of incumbent Jeff Colyer. Political experts are looking to these races as barometers for what may happen in the midterms . And though the President's candidates may win, Ohio's close race could be an ominous sign for the GOP.2. ImmigrationWhite House adviser Stephen Miller reportedly is pushing to make it harder for legal immigrants to get citizenship . Basically, if immigrants waiting for citizenship use some public benefits -- which they are legally entitled to do -- rules now on the books allow the government to reject them for citizenship on the grounds they could become a "public charge." Now, Miller wants to expand these loosely-defined benefits to include even the most basic (and public) of services, like Medicare and food stamps.3. ChinaA landmark law protecting children has landed in China. The country's first laws designed to protect minors from sexual harassment on school campuses , including excessive physical contact and suggestive messages and images, are now in effect in the city of Hangzhou. The measures also outline "relief" options for victims of sexual harassment, including psychological support and legal aid. The treatment of children in schools is a serious problem in China, and advocates hope these laws will hold teachers and school staff -- the country's leading perpetrators of this kind of abuse -- accountable.JUST WATCHED Parents allege abuse at Chinese kindergarten (2017) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Parents allege abuse at Chinese kindergarten (2017) 01:434. Puerto RicoIt's finally happened. Eleven months after Hurricane Maria hit, power has been restored to almost everyone on the island. Of nearly 1.4 million customers who lost electrical service after September's storm, just 25 remain in the dark. This is a huge step forward for the people of the US territory, as well as the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority. The utility courted controversy when it signed a $300 million contract with a tiny Montana firm to help restore power. After the contract was cancelled, the company's executive director stepped down.JUST WATCHED Puerto Ricans repair power lines themselves Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Puerto Ricans repair power lines themselves 03:365. New MexicoJUST WATCHED Remains found at New Mexico compound Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remains found at New Mexico compound 01:51BREAKFAST BROWSEDemi Lovato has left the hospital and entered rehabThe singer suffered an overdose of some kind in July. AJUST WATCHED Demi Lovato breaks silence after apparent overdose Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Demi Lovato breaks silence after apparent overdose 01:46Papa John's is blaming, well, Papa John for a dip in salesJUST WATCHED Papa John's is losing the pizza wars. Big time. Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Papa John's is losing the pizza wars. Big time. 01:39Leonardo da Vinci may not have painted many of his most famous worksWhy middle-aged men are renting themselves out in JapanHGTV buys the 'Brady Bunch' houseJUST WATCHED Look inside 'The Brady Bunch' house Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Look inside 'The Brady Bunch' house 01:57TODAY'S NUMBER14,000The number of firefighters battling 17 major wildfires now burning across CaliforniaJUST WATCHED Firefighters battle largest fire in California history Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Firefighters battle largest fire in California history 01:13TODAY'S QUOTE"I know a lot of people who say, 'F politics, they're all crooks, whatever.' But to me, that says 'defeatist attitude.'"Director Spike Lee, who says he hopes his new movie, "Black KkKlansman," makes Donald Trump a one-term PresidentJUST WATCHED Spike Lee hopes his new film sinks Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Spike Lee hopes his new film sinks Trump 02:22AND FINALLYDo ... not ... disturb ...