(CNN) As John McCain is laid to rest this weekend, Barack Obama and George W. Bush will be there to eulogize him. Here's the story behind McCain's unexpected request of his two ex-political rivals (who went on to be president), plus everything else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. PrimariesAnother round of primaries, another round of drama. This time, the big upset came in Florida's governor's race . Tallahassee Mayor Andrew Gillum defeated former US Rep. Gwen Graham to clinch the Democratic nomination. Gillum, a progressive backed by Bernie Sanders , will face Trump-backed Republican US Rep. Ron DeSantis. If Gillum wins, he'll be the state's first black governor. In Arizona, US Rep. Martha McSally won the bruising Republican primary for the state's open US Senate seat. She prevailed by sticking close to President Trump and his political leanings, but that could make the general election, in which she'll face Democratic US Rep. Kyrsten Sinema, even more polarizing.Another, smaller race in Florida also caught national interest: The mom of a student killed in the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting this year won a spot on the Broward County School Board . Lori Alhadeff, a former teacher whose daughter Alyssa was killed in the shooting, won the seat handily.2. Puerto RicoFor nearly a year now, there have been suspicions that the number of people killed by Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico was far greater than the official tally. Now, Puerto Rico's government has revised the death toll, and the new figure is devastating. According to a new estimate, 2,975 people died as a result of the storm . That's 46 times as many people as counted in the government's December report, which put the death toll at 64 . Knowing the official count isn't just about knowing exactly what happened and whom it affected -- though that's reason enough. Families of those who died in the aftermath of the storm are eligible to have some funeral expenses covered by the US government, and higher death tolls can also drive more disaster aid.JUST WATCHED Puerto Rico revises Hurricane Maria death toll Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Puerto Rico revises Hurricane Maria death toll 01:393. Jordan EdwardsA rare verdict yesterday elicited sobs and gasps from a Texas courtroom. Roy Oliver, an ex-Dallas-area police officer, was found guilty in the shooting death of Jordan Edwards , an unarmed black teen. The 15-year-old was riding in a car that was approached by officers last April. When the driver didn't stop fully and drove past them, Oliver, who is white, shot several rounds into the car. One bullet struck Edwards, killing him. His death is one in a long line of tragic encounters between law enforcement and black boys and men, but the final outcome was unusual. Few officers face trial in these cases, and even fewer are convicted.JUST WATCHED Cop fired in 2017 after fatally shooting teen Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cop fired in 2017 after fatally shooting teen 02:184. 3D-printed gunsJUST WATCHED Watch: CNN speaks to creator of 3D printed gun Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch: CNN speaks to creator of 3D printed gun 03:565. China rideshare controversyDidi Chuxing, China's top ride-hailing company, is promising a major overhaul after one of its drivers was accused of raping and killing a female passenger . The victim is the second female passenger believed to have been murdered this year while using Didi Chuxing. After the driver was arrested, the country's ministries of transport and public security summoned Didi executives to demand a change. Now, Didi has suspended its carpool service and has promised to make safety its first priority.JUST WATCHED The battle for China's taxi market: Uber vs. Didi Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The battle for China's taxi market: Uber vs. Didi 01:45BREAKFAST BROWSERemarkable photo shows a baby surrounded by the 1,616 IVF injections it took to bring her into the worldInstagram and Tinder are rolling out new features for college studentsThousands of bees swarm a hot dog stand in New York CityFrench beach bans swimming because of aggressively lustful dolphinHBO quietly removes erotic late-night programming from its lineupTODAY'S NUMBER2.3 millionThe number of cases of syphilis, gonorrhea and chlamydia diagnosed last year in the US. That's a record, and some doctors think the numbers are enough for STDs to be declared a public health crisisJUST WATCHED Startup delivers STD tests to your home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Startup delivers STD tests to your home 03:58TODAY'S QUOTE"This is the first time we've had to confront something like this as an organization and, I believe, the first time our gaming community has dealt with a tragedy of this nature."EA Sports CEO Andrew Wilson. The gaming brand canceled three EA Madden tournaments to review "safety protocols" in the aftermath of this weekend's deadly shooting in Jacksonville, Florida.JUST WATCHED Police search for motive in FL shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police search for motive in FL shooting 02:46AND FINALLYCute with the sound off, spectacular with the sound on