(CNN) Sixteen of the largest wildfires burning in California have scorched 320,000 acres, authorities said Wednesday -- an area larger than the entire city of Los Angeles.The Carr Fire, which has burned 121,000 acres and left six people dead, is now considered the sixth most destructive fire in California history, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, also known as Cal FireForecasters said winds could be stronger Wednesday, around 20 mph to 30 mph, and high temperatures and low humidity don't bode well for containing the blazes.Smoke from the Carr and Ferguson fires can be seen in satellite images."California can expect to see hot, dry and breezy conditions through the end of the week," CNN meteorologist Gene Norman said.Temperatures will soar into the lower 100s in many places, Norman said, and whipping winds will be "wildly fluctuating as the fires generate their own localized wind."Here's a look at some of the most dangerous wildfires burning in the state now:Carr Fire's destruction is 'like an atomic bomb'Six people have died in this blaze, including three members of the same familyPhotos: Massive wildfires scorching California A man cleans up red fire retardant dropped by a firefighting jet in Lake Elsinore, California on Sunday, August 12. Hide Caption 1 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A flag flies at half-staff amid the rubble of homes burned in the Carr Fire, on Sunday, August 12. Hide Caption 2 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Homes destroyed by a wildfire in Redding, California are seen from an aerial view on Friday, August 10 Hide Caption 3 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A helicopter drops water on flames in Lake Elsinore, California, on Friday, August 10. Hide Caption 4 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Rose Wyckoff holds up three kittens August 10 in a Redding neighborhood that has been destroyed by the Carr Fire. Hide Caption 5 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California King Bass, 6, and his 5-year-old sister, Princess, watch the Holy Fire burn from the top of their parents' car in Lake Elsinore on Thursday, August 9. Hide Caption 6 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters monitor a backfire while battling part of the Mendocino Complex Fire near Ladoga on Tuesday, August 7. Hide Caption 7 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A plane drops fire retardant behind homes as the Holy Fire burns in Lake Elsinore on Wednesday, August 8. Hide Caption 8 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters work on stopping the Mendocino Complex Fire, which is made up of the River and Ranch fires. Hide Caption 9 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter makes his way down a hillside while battling the Mendocino Complex Fire on August 7. Hide Caption 10 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A supertanker jet flies above the Holy Fire near Lake Elsinore on August 7. Hide Caption 11 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Crystal Easter comforts her dogs as they flee a wildfire in Spring Valley on Monday, August 6. Hide Caption 12 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr and Ferguson fires are visible from space in an image taken by European Space Agency astronaut Alexander Gerst on Friday, August 3. Hide Caption 13 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Ventura County firefighters watch as a helicopter makes a drop on a hot spot in Scotts Valley on August 3. Hide Caption 14 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California An airplane drops fire retardant in Lakeport on Thursday, August 2. Hide Caption 15 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Flames from a wildfire move up a ridge near Lakeport on August 2. Hide Caption 16 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Flames from a wildfire advance down a hillside near Lakeport on August 2. Hide Caption 17 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter walks around a swimming pool that had been sprayed by fire retardant near Lakeport. Hide Caption 18 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California An air tanker drops fire retardant near Redding on August 2. Hide Caption 19 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A tower of smoke pours from Cow Mountain as a firefighter keeps a watch on surrounding vegetation. Hide Caption 20 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr Fire can be seen from a commercial flight flying over Redding on Wednesday, August 1. Hide Caption 21 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters conduct a controlled burn to defend houses from the Ranch Fire as it moves toward Upper Lake. Hide Caption 22 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Ranch and River fires make up the Mendocino Complex Fire, which has been raging in and near the southeast corner of the Mendocino National Forest, northwest of Sacramento. Hide Caption 23 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A barn burns on Tuesday, July 31, as the River Fire moves through Lakeport. Hide Caption 24 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter runs while trying to save a house in Lakeport. Hide Caption 25 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters try to control a back burn as the Carr Fire spreads toward the towns of Douglas City and Lewiston on July 31. Hide Caption 26 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A woman leaves Lakeport as the River Fire approaches on July 31. Hide Caption 27 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A house burns as the River Fire moves through the Lakeport area on July 31. Hide Caption 28 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters in Upper Lake watch a back burn on July 31. Hide Caption 29 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr Fire leaves cars destroyed near Redding on July 31. Hide Caption 30 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Fire retardant is dropped near a home as the Mendocino Complex Fire burns near Lakeport on Monday, July 30. Hide Caption 31 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter walks through smoke while fighting to save a winery in Lakeport on July 30. Hide Caption 32 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A house near Finley burns from the Mendocino Complex Fire on July 30. Hide Caption 33 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Boats sit at Whiskeytown Lake, near where the Carr Fire originated, on Sunday, July 29. Hide Caption 34 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Deer graze along a road covered in fire retardant as the Carr Fire burns near Redding on Saturday, July 28. Hide Caption 35 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A fire truck drives along Highway 299 as the Carr fire continues to burn near Whiskeytown on July 28. Hide Caption 36 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The setting sun is turned red by smoke from the Carr Fire on Friday, July 27. Hide Caption 37 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Burned-out properties are seen in Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 38 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighting helicopter makes a water drop as the sun sets over a ridge burning near Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 39 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A large pyrocumulus cloud explodes near Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 40 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Flames from the Carr Fire burn through trees near Whiskeytown on July 27. Hide Caption 41 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A burning home is reflected in a pool in Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 42 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter monitors a backfire while battling the Carr Fire on July 27. The fire grew rapidly, ravaging several small communities and jumping the Sacramento River before threatening the outskirts of Redding. Hide Caption 43 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter lights backfires in Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 44 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Cranston Fire burns in San Bernardino National Forest, near Idyllwild, on Thursday, July 26. The Cranston Fire has prompted thousands to flee their homes. Hide Caption 45 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr Fire burns along Highway 299 on July 26. Hide Caption 46 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr Fire tears through Shasta on July 26. Hide Caption 47 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A historic schoolhouse burns in Shasta on July 26. Hide Caption 48 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter walks along Highway 299 as the Carr Fire tears through Shasta on July 26. Hide Caption 49 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Smoke from the Ferguson Fire fills California's Yosemite Valley on Wednesday, July 25. Some of the most iconic areas of Yosemite National Park were forced to close because of the wildfire. Hide Caption 50 of 50The Carr Fire was 35% contained early Wednesday, Cal Fire said.The fire was still active in certain spots in the afternoon, but was not running toward communities, Cal Fire's Steve Moore said.Incident Commander Brett Gouvea said weather was helping."We are starting to see more successes than losses on this fire," Gouvea said.Redding police said everyone reported missing in Shasta County had been found. The Shasta County Sheriff's Office said it took 60 missing persons reports in the early days of the fire.Josh Lister and his family lost their home and belongings after the fire swept through Redding, a city of almost 100,000 people."It was a firestorm when we left," Lister said.Afterward, he was stunned to see the devastation in his neighborhood."It looked like an atomic bomb went off," he said.The Redding Police Department has made "many, many arrests" in connection with looting, Chief Roger Moore said Wednesday. Seventeen burglaries have been reported in evacuated neighborhoods.The Carr Fire is so large and intense that it created its own localized weather system , making it difficult to predict which way the blaze will spread.More than 4,000 fire personnel are battling the flames, but triple-digit heat, shifting winds, dry fuel and steep terrain are working against them, officials said. Roughly 15,000 residents have been evacuated.The flames were sparked July 23 by the mechanical failure of a vehicle, Cal Fire said. Since then, it has destroyed more than 1,018 homes.Highway 299 remains closed in fire-affected areas as crews clear debris.Relief crews came from other areas to Redding on Wednesday so firefighters could be together and grieve the death of colleague Jeremy Stoke, Chief Cullen Kreider said.Ferguson Fire kills 2 peopleAn abundance of trees killed by drought and bark beetles has helped the Ferguson Fire spread quickly.After 20 days of destruction, the Ferguson Fire in central California was only 39% contained as of Wednesday.A huge problem facing firefighters is that the flames are largely burning in steep, inaccessible terrain.Unlike the Carr Fire, authorities don't know what started the Ferguson Fire, which has now engulfed nearly 63,000 acres.Mendocino ComplexThe Ranch and River fires, collectively called the Mendocino Complex, are blazing in and near the southeast corner of the Mendocino National Forest, northwest of Sacramento. Together the fires have burned nearly 95,000 acres and are 24% contained.As many as 14,600 residents have been evacuated, fire officials said, and more than 12,000 structures are threatened.Wildfires 'we have historically never seen' beforeIn the past several days, smoke from the California wildfires has stretched all the way to OklahomaAnd California has already spent a quarter of its firefighting budget for the year in the month of July.Cal Fire spokesman Jonathan Cox said the intensity of this summer's wildfires is historic."What we're seeing in California right now is more destructive, larger fires burning at rates that we have historically never seen," he said.California Gov. Jerry Brown said Wednesday that fires have become the new normal in California due in large part to the changing weather."The more serious predictions of warming and fires to occur later in the century, 2040 or 2050, they're now occurring in real time," he said. "You can expect, unfortunately, that to keep intensifying in California and throughout the Southwest. We're part of that process of the Mediterranean climate that is being impacted by the changing weather."Brown added: "I would suspect there will be more fires to come, and more fires each year for a very long time because it's going to be a while before we shift the weather back to where it historically was."