(CNN) Looking for romance? Don't count out that guy or gal shoving a carry-on in the overhead bin. Turns out 1 in 50 people find the love of their life on a plane . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White HouseDon McGahn heads for the exits. The departure of the White House counsel was announced by President Trump on Twitter. McGahn will leave this fall after the confirmation hearings for Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh (which start Tuesday ). McGahn's had an interesting ride. He has been a huge part of Trump's successful conservative reshaping of the federal courts, but he's also clashed with the President over the Russia investigation. And the disclosure that McGahn had cooperated extensively with special counsel Robert Mueller didn't help his relationship with Trump, either.2. SyriaSyria is prepping for a final assault on the last rebel stronghold in the country, and the US is worried that chemical weapons are part of its plans. Syria moved armed helicopters closer to Idlib in the past couple weeks, two defense officials tell CNN. Those could be used to launch chlorine-filled barrel bombs on Idlib. The concern has also sparked a new tussle with Syrian ally Russia. The Russians claim the US and its allies are using the alleged chemical weapons threat as an excuse to launch airstrikes in Syria3. Duck boat tragedyA federal investigation has started into the tragic sinking of a duck boat on a Missouri lake that killed 17 people in July. The feds got involved after the US Coast Guard determined that the deaths resulted from "misconduct, negligence or inattention to the duties" by the captain of the duck boat. The probe will also look at the company that operates the tourist ride. It's one of many investigations into the tragedy. Survivors of those who perished are also suing Ripley Entertainment, which operated the duck boat tour.JUST WATCHED Duck boat operator sued for $100 million Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Duck boat operator sued for $100 million 01:234. ChinaLooks like the end could be near for China's infamous family-planning rules. The current rules limit Chinese couples to just two children (the "one-child" policy ended a few years ago). Now, a government statement indicates families may be allowed to have as many kids as they like for the first time in decades. The drive to end birth restrictions is fueled by China's aging population and a slowing birth rate . The revised code will be completed in March 2020.JUST WATCHED The toils of China's one-child policy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The toils of China's one-child policy 00:565. UberAn Uber driver in Florida shot and killed a man , and he may not be charged because of the state's "stand your ground" law . The Uber driver, Robert Westlake, fired once and killed Jason Boek after Boek approached Westlake's vehicle, raised his hand and yelled, "You know I got a pistol? You want me to f****** shooting you?" Police say Boek had a cell phone, not a gun. But a local sheriff says this is a case of "justifiable homicide all day long. You have the right protect yourself." Westlake, who's also a licensed armed security guard who'd just finished training to be a police officer, is cooperating with the investigation. Uber policy prohibits its drivers from carrying guns while working.JUST WATCHED See the moment the man confronted an Uber driver Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See the moment the man confronted an Uber driver 01:56TODAY'S NUMBER15That's the number of years to which a Texas jury sentenced ex-police officer Roy Oliver after he was convicted in the shooting death of Jordan Edwards, an unarmed black 15-year-old, in a Dallas suburbJUST WATCHED Parent: 15 years in prison not enough Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Parent: 15 years in prison not enough 01:27TODAY'S QUOTE"The last thing we need to do is to monkey this up ..."Florida GOP gubernatorial candidate US Rep. Ron DeSantis, who was accused of using racist language while talking about his black Democratic opponent, Tallahassee Mayor Andrew GillumJUST WATCHED GOP nominee stirs controversy after win Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH GOP nominee stirs controversy after win 02:30BREAKFAST BROWSEThe new retirement age is ...A spry 35! At least that's how old soccer legend Clint Dempsey is, now that he's calling it quits after a "prolific" career in Seattle and on the world stage.Shirt shriftUS Open organizers apologized for penalizing a female tennis player who briefly took off her shirt on the court after she realized she'd put it on wrong.JUST WATCHED Alize Cornet penalized for removing shirt Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Alize Cornet penalized for removing shirt 01:43Not throwing away his shotPrince Harry stole the show in London when he burst into song during "Hamilton." And of course, he picked a number sung by the George III character, his sixth-great-grandfather.Warm up the toasterA new study will pay you to eat avocados every day for six months. You don't have to feel guilty -- this is for scienceJUST WATCHED The health benefits of eating avocado Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The health benefits of eating avocado 00:55Plush accommodationsIf your travel dreams include spending the night in an old WWII gun tower , you'll want to head to the Channel Islands.AND FINALLYFeels so good