(CNN) Jonesing for a last-minute summer getaway? Here are some of the best places to visit in August, plus everything else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Rick GatesThe tax and fraud trial of former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort just got SPICY. Rick Gates, a former adviser to President Trump who worked alongside Manafort during the 2016 campaign, testified yesterday as a witness for the prosecution and basically hung Manafort out to dry. Gates admitted he had committed crimes alongside and at the direction of his former partner -- and had also stolen from Manafort. Gates stated he and Manafort had 15 foreign accounts they did not report to the federal government and knew it was illegal . Gates said he did not submit the required forms "at Mr. Manafort's direction." Gates pleaded guilty this year to charges related to special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into the 2016 election and agreed to testify as part of a plea deal. The big question now is whether the jury will believe Gate's version of events -- or Manafort'sWho will jury believe: An accused liar or an admitted liar?Who will jury believe: An accused liar or an admitted liar? 02:29Who will jury believe: An accused liar or an admitted liar?2. InfowarsSome of the web's top gatekeepers have unleashed a serious crackdown on content from Infowars and its founder, Alex Jones. Infowars is the site and Jones the man that push baseless conspiracy theories that often create real-life damage (like the Sandy Hook hoax over which several more families this week sued Jones for defamation ). YouTube, Facebook and Apple yesterday removed content from Infowars, claiming it violates their policies, such as YouTube's barring "hate speech and harassment." YouTube's actions probably most damage the brand, which had multiple channels with millions of subscribers and more than a billion views.3. New Mexico child abuse caseInvestigators are uncovering more details about last week's horrifying discovery of 11 emaciated children in a trailer at a New Mexico compound. Five adults have been charged with child abuse in the case. The two men and three women -- believed to be the children's mothers -- each face 11 counts "related to the neglect and abuse of the children involved." One of the men, Siraj Wahhaj, is the son of a prominent and controversial New York imam who goes by the same name. The younger Wahhaj is wanted by Georgia authorities on charges related to the disappearance of his young son eight months ago. It was that search that led to the discovery of the New Mexico compound.JUST WATCHED 11 children rescued from New Mexico compound Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 11 children rescued from New Mexico compound 01:184. Iran sanctionsJUST WATCHED Rouhani: US must pull 'knife' out before talks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rouhani: US must pull 'knife' out before talks 02:025. California wildfiresJUST WATCHED Wildfires and deadly heat waves around the world Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wildfires and deadly heat waves around the world 01:07BREAKFAST BROWSESinger Pink hospitalized in AustraliaJUST WATCHED Pink cancels concerts after hospitalization Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pink cancels concerts after hospitalization 00:48Beyonce covers Vogue's September issue, and it's a first in many waysJUST WATCHED Beyoncé Vogue cover to make history Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Beyoncé Vogue cover to make history 00:54The NFL's first male dancers will hit the sidelines this seasonA good time to mention that the New Orleans Saints dance squad, where one of the lithe lads landed , is called the "Saintsations," which is awesome.Ever wonder what happens to your poop when you climb Everest?JUST WATCHED The human impact on Everest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The human impact on Everest 02:22Some elderly German men broke out of their retirement home to attend a heavy metal concert.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHMidterm primaries are taking over TuesdaysTODAY'S NUMBER66The number of people who were shot this weekend in Chicago , including 12 who died. "It's no secret that we had an unacceptably violent weekend," Chicago Police Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson said.JUST WATCHED 12 killed in deadly Chicago weekend shootings Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 12 killed in deadly Chicago weekend shootings 02:08TODAY'S QUOTE"They say it takes a village to raise a child. And someone has messed with our village."Joy VanLandschoot, a business owner in Brooklyn, Iowa, where the community is searching nonstop for 20-year-old Mollie Tibbetts, who disappeared from the area on July 18JUST WATCHED Community on edge over missing Iowa student Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Community on edge over missing Iowa student 03:33AND FINALLYThey do what?!