(CNN) Summer's pretty much over. So, there's no better time to check out some of the best travel photos of the year (so far). Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White HousePresident Trump commemorated John McCain for his life of service to the country -- but it took him all day to get there. After ignoring questions about the late senator and taking flack for raising the flags at the White House after briefly lowering them after McCain died, Trump put out a statement expressing his "respect" for the former POW and war hero. Trump later said he appreciated "everything that Sen. McCain has done for our country." And he ordered flags lowered again . Pressure from Trump's aides and criticism from the American Legion seemed to push the President to say more about McCain.Meanwhile, Trump celebrated movement in the NAFTA talks. The President said the US is dropping NAFTA in favor of a bilateral agreement with Mexico and possibly a second bilateral deal with Canada. But what he announced Monday isn't there yet. So far, there's only a deal between the US and Mexico on how to resolve key issues in the trade relationship. That was enough for Wall Street, though. The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq closed at all-time highs , and the Dow finished over 26,000 for the first time since in six months.2. Jacksonville shootingDavid Katz had a history of mental illness , and police were often called to his family's home, court and police records show. Katz -- who shot and killed two people at an e-sports tournament in Jacksonville before killing himself -- was in treatment for psychiatric issues as early as age 12. He'd also been prescribed psychiatric medications. Katz targeted fellow gamers at a Madden NFL video game tournament after losing earlier in the day. His guns were bought legally, officials say.The gaming community mourned the victims , Taylor Robertson and Eli Clayton. Robertson, 27, of West Virginia, had won the national Madden tournament two years ago. Clayton, 22, was from California. His family said he was saving the money he earned playing video games for college. The shooting was the first glimpse for many into the world of e-sports , which has rapidly grown into a billion-dollar industry and turned casual gamers into serious stars.JUST WATCHED Victim's cousin: Our family is forever changed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Victim's cousin: Our family is forever changed 02:023. MyanmarJUST WATCHED UN accuses military leaders of genocide Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH UN accuses military leaders of genocide 02:184. North CarolinaThe congressional map in the Tar Heel State might be redrawn before this fall's crucial midterm elections -- just 10 weeks from today. A federal court threw out the map , ruling it was drawn to favor the GOP and so amounted to partisan gerrymandering. This is a big deal because Republicans hold 10 of the state's 13 seats in the US House, and a redrawn map could put more seats in play for Democrats as they try to win back the House. The Supreme Court may end up getting involved, since we're so close to the election. The Supremes, by the way, have never ruled partisan gerrymandering to be unconstitutional.JUST WATCHED How gerrymandering got its name Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How gerrymandering got its name 01:575. Air pollutionIs dirty air making us all dumber? Well, yes, says a new study. Our cognitive abilities take a big hit when we breathe in pollution over a long time, according to the study in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . Taking in contaminated air causes a "steep reduction in verbal and math tests scores." Researchers found that the biggest decline in verbal scores were found in older, less-educated men.JUST WATCHED What is in our air Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is in our air 01:15TODAY'S QUOTE"One of the most painful things is this deep question I have of: Do I trust my church with my kids? And the answer right now is: Kinda, no."Susan Reynolds, an assistant professor of Catholic studies at Emory University in Atlanta and the mom of two young daughters, on raising a family in the church amid the clergy sex abuse crisisJUST WATCHED Archbishop wants Pope Francis to resign Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Archbishop wants Pope Francis to resign 03:07BREAKFAST BROWSEWritten outJohn Goodman says Dan will be "sad" on "The Conners" because his wife is dead, a clear sign of how Roseanne Barr's exit from the show will be handled.JUST WATCHED Roseanne: 'Sorry that you thought I was racist' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Roseanne: 'Sorry that you thought I was racist' 01:44True blueHer school said her blue-black wig was a dress code violation and shouldn't be worn. But a student with brain cancer said it gave her strength in her fight.Rock of agesDwayne "The Rock" Johnson became a rock for a family reeling after a mother and daughter were killed in a wrong-way car crash.JUST WATCHED See The Rock grant a grieving fan's wish Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See The Rock grant a grieving fan's wish 01:03Under the seaIt's not the Great Barrier Reef, but the newly discovered giant deep-sea coral reef , off South Carolina's coast, is still a pretty significant find.A new supergirlMeet the new superhero who dons a hijab to fight crime.JUST WATCHED The Arab supergirl fighting crime and smashing stereotypes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The Arab supergirl fighting crime and smashing stereotypes 02:37TODAY'S NUMBER$41.6 millionThat's how much Houston Texans star J.J. Watt has helped raise for Hurricane Harvey reliefJUST WATCHED Supermodel helps rebuild school after hurricane Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Supermodel helps rebuild school after hurricane 01:45AND FINALLYRemote control