(CNN) Ready to step back in time? Then head to the museum in Seattle where '80s technology still rules . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. David PeckerThe CEO of the company that publishes the National Enquirer reportedly was granted immunity in the investigation of Michael Cohen in exchange for providing info on hush money deals. David Pecker, the head of American Media Inc., told federal prosecutors that President Trump had knowledge of Cohen's payments to women who said Trump had affairs with them, sources told CNN; Trump has denied the affairs. American Media Inc. didn't respond to CNN's requests for comment. Cohen, Trump's former lawyer, pleaded guilty Tuesday to eight criminal counts and said in court he committed some of his crimes at Trump's request2. AustraliaFor the sixth time in just more than 10 years, Australia has a new prime minister . Scott Morrison narrowly defeated a rival in a closed-door leadership vote to claim the job. He's one of the architects of Australia's tough immigration policies . The door opened for Morrison to rise to the country's top post after now-former Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull was toppled in a conservative uprising over a change in climate change policy. It's been a revolving door of leadership changes in Australia's capital in the past decade. Since 2007, no Australian prime minister has faced two consecutive elections.3. Hurricane LaneJUST WATCHED Huuricane Lane barrels toward Hawaii Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Huuricane Lane barrels toward Hawaii 01:284. Duncan HunterJUST WATCHED GOP Rep. Hunter pleads not guilty to charges Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH GOP Rep. Hunter pleads not guilty to charges 02:055. Arctic iceWarming temperatures seem to be affecting the thickest and oldest ice in the Arctic. Recent satellite images show that sea ice off Greenland's northern coast -- ridges of ice piled as high as 70 feet in some places -- has been replaced by miles of open water for the first time on record. It's a development that's surprised scientists. "This was the area that was seen as the last bastion, where we'd see these changes come last, but they've arrived," said one researcher. The loss of sea ice contributes to a vicious cycle in which sunlight, normally reflected by ice, instead enters the ocean and warms it , leading to more ice melt.JUST WATCHED Facts first: Climate change is real Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Facts first: Climate change is real 01:48BREAKFAST BROWSE'I'm coming home to you'If you find yourself humming "Sweet Home Alabama" (and you will after reading this), you can thank Ed King for writing it. The Lynyrd Skynyrd guitarist has died.Best wishes, BenEverybody send good wishes to Ben Affleck. The Oscar-winning director (and current Batman actor) is in rehab , where he's been in the past for alcohol addiction.Say hello to ...An isolated Amazon tribe with no known contacts with the rest of the world was spotted by a drone flying over the jungle in Brazil.'Saving Nemo'Schoolkids in Australia have gone from "Finding Nemo" to saving him with a campaign to protect clownfishJUST WATCHED 'Saving Nemo': The mission to protect the clownfish Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Saving Nemo': The mission to protect the clownfish 03:05Ready for her close-upJapan has its first female fighter pilot . And, no surprise, she was influenced by "Top Gun."HAPPENING LATER ...Ballot battleA rural Georgia county's Board of Elections is due to vote this morning on a controversial proposal to close seven of the majority-black county's nine polling places ahead of the November midterm election. The proposal has sparked accusations of racism and voter suppression.Emotional visitPope Francis heads to Ireland this weekend , the first papal visit to the Emerald Isle in almost four decades. And sex abuse survivors there -- and everywhere -- say he must do more to deal with the church's scandals.JUST WATCHED Sexually abused victims want Pope to do more Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sexually abused victims want Pope to do more 00:10TODAY'S QUOTE"The actions of the Department of Justice will not be improperly influenced by political considerations."Attorney General Jeff Sessions, pushing back against the latest taunt from President Trump, who said Sessions "never took control" of the Justice DepartmentTOTAL RECALLQuiz timeVolkswagen has been accused of ruining Mexican crops near one of its factories by using what?A. hail cannonsB. sonic screwdriversC. hoverboardsD. transportersPlay "Total Recall: The CNN news quiz" to see if you're right. And don't forget, you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."TODAY'S NUMBER$120 millionJUST WATCHED Apple is now worth $1 trillion Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Apple is now worth $1 trillion 01:44AND FINALLYNo friends, no problem