(CNN) She was the "Queen of Soul." He was "The Black Prince."And while classics such as "Think" and "Chain of Fools" became her signature songs, his sermon on " The Eagle Stirreth Her Nest " became such a pulpit hit that it was added to the Library of Congress.Aretha Franklin learned how to command a stage from her father, C.L. Franklin.No tribute to Aretha Franklin would be complete without citing the massive impact her father, the Rev. Clarence LaVaughn Franklin, had on her. He shaped her sound and style; some say he had the most profound influence on his daughter's life.C.L. Franklin was a superstar before his daughter became one. His unique style of preaching drew such a wide audience that his sermons were sold in record stores, and pastors around the nation rescheduled their Sunday evening services to avoid competing with his popular radio show. One preaching critic described his voice as "explosive and filled with a river of music.""From when she started touring with her father until the day she left this earth, she was always C.L. Franklin's daughter and she was proud of that," says Jonathan L. Walton, a Harvard University religion professor who befriended Franklin when Harvard awarded her an honorary degree in 2014.At the peak of his popularity in the 1950s, C.L. Franklin commanded $4,000 an appearance. By comparison, Elvis Presley received $7,500 for an appearance in 1956, says Nick Salvatore, author of "Singing in a Strange Land," the definitive biography of the late preacher.C.L. Franklin spotted his daughter's musical gifts early and arranged piano lessons for her. He would later encourage and defend her decision to move from gospel to pop.Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Aretha Franklin performs at the opening of the new Performing Arts Center at Montgomery College in Silver Spring, Maryland, on September 11, 2009. Hide Caption 1 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos After a childhood of singing gospel music in Detroit, where her father was a minister, Franklin scored her first recording deal at age 18. In 1967 she signed with Atlantic Records, where she would record a string of hits. Hide Caption 2 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin performs on stage in 1968. Hide Caption 3 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin photographed with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in the late 1960's. In 1968 she was asked to perform at King's funeral, where she sang a stirring rendition of "Precious Lord, Take Thy Hand." Hide Caption 4 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Aretha Franklin performs at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago on August 26, 1968. Hide Caption 5 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Aretha Franklin sits for a portrait with her father, Baptist preacher 'CL' (born Clarence LaVaughn), and her sister, fellow singer, Carolyn, in New York in 1971. Hide Caption 6 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Crowds gather for a performance by Franklin at the Apollo Theater in New York City on June 3, 1971. Hide Caption 7 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin, far left, performs at Jimmy Carter's Presidential Inaugural Gala on January 20, 1977, in Washington, D.C. Hide Caption 8 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin and Glynn Turman walk down the aisle at their wedding on April 11, 1978.Editor's note: A previous version of this caption identified Franklin's husband as Glynn Russell. His full name is Glynn Russell Turman. Hide Caption 9 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin on stage in 1980. Hide Caption 10 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Dan Aykroyd (far left), John Belushi (second left), Aretha Franklin (center) and Matt "Guitar" Murphy (back right) in a scene from the 1980 film, "The Blues Brothers." Hide Caption 11 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin and Big Mama Thornton perform together onstage on the television series, 'Omnibus,' in 1980. Hide Caption 12 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin poses backstage during ChicagoFest in 1981. Hide Caption 13 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin performs "Jumpin' Jack Flash" with Keith Richards and Ron Wood of the Rolling Stones in 1986. Hide Caption 14 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin sings at the Park West Auditorium in Chicago in 1992. Hide Caption 15 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin preforms at the Lincoln Memorial for President Clinton's inaugural gala in 1992. Hide Caption 16 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin became the youngest Kennedy Center Honors Awards recipient in 1994. Hide Caption 17 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin performs with, from left, Mariah Carey, Gloria Estefan, Carole King (obscured), Shania Twain and Celine Dion during the "Divas Live - An Honors Concert for VH1 Save the Music" at New York's Beacon Theater in 1998. Hide Caption 18 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin performs at a JVC Jazz Festival concert at New York's Lincoln Center in 2000. Hide Caption 19 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin sings at civil rights pioneer Rosa Parks' funeral in 2005. Hide Caption 20 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Former President George W. Bush presented Franklin with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, in 2005. The medal is awarded to those who have made contributions to national security, world peace or culture. Hide Caption 21 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin and Aaron Neville performed the national anthem before the 2006 Super Bowl in Detroit. Hide Caption 22 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin in 2008. Hide Caption 23 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin performed "My Country 'Tis of Thee" at the inauguration of President Barack Obama in 2009. Hide Caption 24 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin at The NAACP Freedom Fund Dinner in 2009. Hide Caption 25 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Musician Rob Thomas, Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, actor Zach Levi, actress Jane Krakowski, singer Michael Buble and Franklin at the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree lighting ceremony in 2009. Hide Caption 26 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin during a 2010 concert, accompanied by former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice (far left) at the piano and the Philadelphia Orchestra. Hide Caption 27 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin and Oprah Winfrey during a star-studded taping of "Surprise Oprah! A Farewell Spectacular," in Chicago in 2011. Hide Caption 28 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos After canceling six months of public appearances because of medical problems, Franklin returned to the stage at the Jones Beach Theater in New York in 2011. Hide Caption 29 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin, seen on screen, at the "American Idol" finale in 2013. Hide Caption 30 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin performs during the National Christmas Tree Lighting ceremony in Washington, D.C. in 2013. Hide Caption 31 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin waves while standing to receive an honorary Doctor of Arts degree from Harvard University in 2014. Hide Caption 32 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos An emotional Attorney General Eric Holder, center, and President Barack Obama react after Franklin finished singing a song for Holder at an event celebrating the end of his tenure at the Department of Justice in 2015. Hide Caption 33 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Pope Francis looks on as Franklin performs during the 2015 Festival of Families in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Hide Caption 34 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin performing in 2015 at the National Portrait Gallery, where she was honored. Hide Caption 35 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin singing at a benefit for the Elton John AIDS Foundation in New York in 2017. Hide Caption 36 of 37 Photos: 'The Queen of Soul': Aretha Franklin in photos Franklin and her son Kecalf Cunningham stand under a newly unveiled street sign named in her honor outside Detroit's Music Hall in 2017. Hide Caption 37 of 37"The two of them had a mutual admiration society. He was prouder of her than he could possibly express," Salvatore says.If you want to understand Franklin, start with her father. The two had similarities that went beyond their soulful voices.They both demanded respectIf one thing was associated with Aretha Franklin other than her voice, it was her purse."It didn't matter where she sang or who she sang for, she took her purse onstage. Even when she performed before President Obama at the Kennedy Center, she laid her purse atop the piano.She did it because she insisted on getting paid in cash first. After getting her money, she'd stuff stacks of hundred-dollar bills inside and carry the purse onstage so she could keep an eye on it."She carried it everywhere. That purse became a symbol," says Martha Simmons, co-editor of "Preaching with Sacred Fire," an anthology on black preaching. "It just endeared her to so many women. Her attitude was, 'I don't care about no singing for the queen or some great hall, y'all watch my purse.'"Franklin carried the purse because she had seen so many black musicians get ripped off. Demanding money up front was her way of demanding respect; she wasn't going to play the part of the naive black artist taken advantage of by unscrupulous white promoters.Her father demanded the same kind of respect in a time and place where it could have gotten him killed.C.L. Franklin was born in rural Mississippi to a poor sharecropper's family. He lived in the belly of the beast; he later said he experienced "segregation in the raw." When he was a young man, he said, a mob of whites in a nearby county abducted a black man for some imagined slight. They publicly tortured him for seven hours and then burned his still-breathing body. This is the world he knew.Yet C.L. Franklin built a life in defiance of that kind of terror and humiliation. He demanded respect, and it came in many ways.People often talked about his daughter's regal style of dress: floor-length furs, "fierce red lipstick," the elaborate hats she wore like crowns. But her father dressed like royalty first. He wore tailored suits, alligator shoes and diamond stickpins, and he always rode in a late-model Cadillac (usually driven by a church deacon).And he acted like royalty, even if it endangered his life.Once when his Cadillac broke down in a Southern city, a group of white toughs encircled him, calling him boy and teasing him, Salvatore recounts in "Singing in a Strange Land."C.L. Franklin encouraged his daughter to move from gospel to R&B."Instead of responding, he walked through the mocking crowd to an auto dealership and brought a brand new car and paid cash for it on the spot," Salvatore notes.C.L. Franklin's material excesses would be easy to caricature today -- just another money-grubbing pastor, some might say. But his sartorial style sent a message to his parishioners -- don't take a backseat to anyone -- and he backed it up with his civil rights activism.Before the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. preached his "I Have a Dream" speech at the iconic 1963 March on Washington, he gave it two months earlier at a massive civil rights rally in Detroit -- organized by C.L. Franklin. King was a close friend of the pastor, who often raised money for King.Before the Rev. Jesse Jackson told people "I am somebody," C.L. Franklin was preaching a similar message of uplift to the auto workers, Southern migrants and other blacks wounded by segregation who came to his New Bethel Baptist Church in Detroit."If there was a theme in his sermons, it was 'you are somebody,' " Salvatore says. "But he was not only preaching you are somebody. He was preaching that there are people who want to make certain you never become somebody."Aretha Franklin didn't absorb that fierce sense of self-belief from just listening to her father. She saw it reflected in the black celebrities who stayed at her childhood home.Aretha Franklin, center, with her father and sister Carolyn in 1971.C.L. Franklin was no dour minister. He was the consummate party host who drew some of the biggest names in 20th century black America to his plush home in the exclusive LaSalle Boulevard section of Detroit. The singer Sam Cooke would drop by and muss Franklin's curly hair when she was a girl. The gospel great Mahalia Jackson was such a frequent visitor that she would often go into the family's kitchen to put on a pot of collard greens soon after arriving.Franklin grew up surrounded by black excellence. Musicians like B.B. King, Nat King Cole and Sarah Vaughn often came by. Aretha Franklin's childhood friend was singer Smokey Robinson. It was no accident that Motown records came out of Detroit. The city was a magnet for black artists, and C.L. Franklin and his New Bethel Baptist Church were among its star attractions.In many ways, he was the prototype of black celebrity pastors long before the Rev. Ike and T.D. Jakes came along."He was a pop icon before we had pop icons," Simmons says.They refused to stay in their laneIt was one of the most remarkable moments in Franklin's career. Luciano Pavarotti was expected to perform at the 1998 Grammy Awards when the famous tenor called in sick with a sore throat. Someone needed to fill in for him.He was the master of the mixed sermon. He was, 'I'm going to give you something intellectual, I'm going to put some dessert on it, and then I'm going to shout you out of this place.' Jonathan L. Walton, author of "A Lens of Love," on C.L. Franklin's preaching styleEnter Franklin -- and her purse. She could have stuck with one of her classic R&B songs, but she decided to sing one of Pavarotti's signature arias, "Nessun Dorma." She nailed it, even hitting the song's celebrated high notes. Some critics later said she somehow made "Nessun Dorma" her own.Franklin's performance illustrated one of her gifts. Her voice couldn't be confined to any genre. It went wherever she wanted it to, as Matt Thompson described in a tribute in The Atlantic:"Her producers would discover that Aretha didn't have to forsake or fuse anything; she was not required to pick a lane -- secular or gospel, pop or soul. Her talent simply didn't work that way."Neither did her father's.C.L. Franklin became one of the most admired preachers in the 20th century because he blended so many elements in the pulpit. He took the moans and cadences from blues music he heard in the Mississippi Delta, mixed them with political activism, tossed in some fancy biblical exegesis and topped it off with "whooping," a form of black preaching where the pastor uses rhythmic vocal pyrotechnics to bring the sermon to a celebratory end that elicits an emotional response from the audience.In the parlance of the black church, C.L. Franklin blended "learning and burning.""He was the master of the mixed sermon," says Walton, the Harvard professor and author of "A Lens of Love: Reading the Bible in Its World for Our World.""He was, 'I'm going to give you something intellectual, I'm going to put some dessert on it, and then I'm going to shout you out of this place," Walton says.If you think his daughter had her operatic moment, so did her father -- virtually every Sunday, says Simmons in "Preaching with Sacred Fire."He absolutely had a dark side. Martha Simmons, co-editor of "Preaching with Sacred Fire," on C.L. Franklin"Whooping can be thought of as parallel to great opera," Simmons said. "The tonality enhances the beauty as well as the depth of impact. The hearer is more readily caught up in the sermon, as one may be caught up in the dramatic power of opera."C.L. Franklin was one of the first to encourage his daughter to go into any lane she wanted. It's easy to forget, but Aretha Franklin made a daring move when she crossed over from gospel and decided to record R&B. During the early 1960s, gospel artists were often forced to stay in the pulpit. You can't serve two masters, people said. When Sam Cooke switched from gospel to R&B, many fans were angry and felt betrayed.The average preacher might have insisted his daughter stay in gospel. But not C.L. Frankin. He called her a " stone cold singer " who would infuse the black church into any song she performed."He himself lived in multiple worlds. He loved B.B. King. He loved Ray Charles. Jazz folks came constantly to his house," says Salvatore.Some say C.L. Franklin lived too deeply in multiple worlds. He separated from Franklin's mother and never remarried. He had frequent dalliances with women. There were rumors of drug use, heavy drinking. He even once fathered a child with a teenage parishioner, says Simmons."He absolutely had a dark side," she says. "The stories are everywhere about the amount of drinking he did, multiple relationships and certainly the underage parishioner he impregnated -- that was his lowest point. It was horrific."Simmons believes some of that dark side came from how C.L. Franklin compensated for his rough upbringing. He was self-conscious about his lack of education, his "oppressive" upbringing in Mississippi, even his skin color, she said. The clothes, the flashy cars -- it was like he was determined to never again be that poor black boy growing up in Mississippi."He had a lot to outrun," she says. "How do you outrun being poor, not getting a college education, being dark skinned and looked down on by your own people? His trying to outrun some of that led to some of his excesses."They spoke to people from their 'inners'Chuck Rainey, a bass player who performed with Aretha Franklin, tells a story in The New Yorker about an unusual exchange he once had with the singer.He said Franklin's voice was so riveting that she would sometimes knock her band off the beat. He said she came to him one day, held his hand and told him:"Chuck, don't listen to me too intensely. I know what I do to people. I need for the bass to be where it is so I can sing."Franklin, a dapper pastor, had his own personal tailor.Franklin had what some people call "soul." It's that ineffable quality some singers have. They might not have the most melodious or technically perfect voice, but when they sing people feel it. Ray Charles captured that quality when, while describing Franklin's singing in Salvatore's book, he said, "She always sang from her inners."So did her father.Go to YouTube and listen to C.L. Franklin's sermons. You hear a man who knew how to preach from his "inners." He didn't just holler, he connected emotionally with people.C.L. Franklin's ability to connect wasn't just charisma; it was craft. He worked for years on his preaching, refining sermons, listening to other preachers and creating an ongoing workshop in his home where he invited more educated preachers to critique his sermons.Simmons says he was a master of using metaphors and relating messages to current events. He redefined sermons that had long been preached by other black pastors, such as " Dry Bones in the Valley .""He would tell you a story and he would sit you into that text," says Walton, the Harvard professor. "And when you listen to it, it's not enough to read it -- you feel like you're literally there."C.L. Franklin did for certain popular sermons what his daughter did for Otis Redding's original version of "Respect"-- she made it hers."When he did the 'Dry Bones' sermon, no one else really wanted to try to do the 'Dry Bones' sermon again," Simmons says. "After you heard C.L.'s version, you didn't really want to hear any other version if you are a fan of whooping."His sermons connected with his listeners so much that he became a recording star before his daughter. He recorded at least 70 albums of sermons that were sold in the 1950s and '60s. Some are still sold on the Internet and at religious and denominational conferences today."In the late '50s and '60s, you could go into any record store in the black community across the country and buy C.L. Franklin records," says Salvatore.Despite his triumphal life, C.L. Franklin's ending was tragic. One summer evening in 1979, a group of burglars tried to enter his home. He confronted one with a loaded gun he kept there. Shots were exchanged. He was wounded in his right knee, but another bullet ruptured an artery in his right groin. He lingered in a coma for five years before dying in 1984.His voice lives on, though. Simmons says he is "the most imitated African-American preacher in history.""When it comes to the world of black preaching, all roads go back to C.L. Franklin," says Walton.And when it comes to the world of Aretha Franklin, all roads lead back to her father.Walton says that when he delivered a benediction at the Harvard ceremony where Franklin was honored, she burst into tears on stage as he paid homage to her father."She was the 'Queen of Soul' to the world, and she was in so many ways. She had entertained presidents and popes and kings and queens," he says. "But she was always very clear that she was proud to be the daughter of the Rev. Clarence LaVaughn Franklin. She had no problem still being recognized that way."