(CNN) The Mormon church doesn't want you to call its members Mormons anymore. Why? It's complicated. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Michael CohenCriminal charges are being prepared against Michael Cohen, and federal prosecutors could announce them by the end of the month, sources tell CNN. Cohen, President Trump's longtime "fixer," is being investigated for possible fraud and campaign finance violations related to the $130,000 payment to Stormy Daniels. And The New York Times reported last night that investigators are also looking at more than $20 million in loans Cohen received for himself and his family's taxi business.Meanwhile, the big news that broke out in the Russia investigation over the weekend was the revelation, first reported by the Times, that White House counsel Don McGahn has been cooperating extensively with special counsel Robert Mueller and that Trump's legal team didn't know the extent of it.2. Korean reunionsA group of mostly elderly South Koreans traveled to North Korea this morning and saw family members they hadn't seen or heard from since the Korean War started 68 years ago. The reunions, the first since 2015, were made possible because of an agreement signed between South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un during their summit earlier this year. Ninety-three families were selected, and more than 60% of them are over 80 years old. One 92-year-old woman saw her 72-year-old son, whom she hadn't seen since he was 4.JUST WATCHED S. Koreans cross DMZ for rare family reunions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH S. Koreans cross DMZ for rare family reunions 02:023. Plane sex assaultJUST WATCHED Are airlines doing enough to stop sexual crimes? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Are airlines doing enough to stop sexual crimes? 06:414. AfghanistanJUST WATCHED Are U.S. troops caught in never-ending Afghanistan war? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Are U.S. troops caught in never-ending Afghanistan war? 04:095. India floodingThe waters are starting to recede in India's state of Kerala, but there are still people in desperate need of help in isolated pockets in the region. India's National Disaster Response Force is working to evacuate stranded residents and deliver supplies to flood victims who haven't had food or clean water for days. The flooding, which started about two weeks ago, has killed at least 230 people.JUST WATCHED Kerala monsoon rains turn deadly Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kerala monsoon rains turn deadly 01:56BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Striking goldJUST WATCHED 'Crazy Rich Asians' director on film's success Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Crazy Rich Asians' director on film's success 01:41Making a mountain into a molehillFan y Big, a mountain in south Wales, is not a mountain anymore . Thanks to technology, it's now just a really big hill.Sweet rideWant to drive like James Bond? Well, a silver Aston Martin DB5 -- with all the gadgets -- can be yours, for the awesome price of $3.5 million.JUST WATCHED You could own James Bond's car Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH You could own James Bond's car 01:21Great expectationsIf you're trying to get pregnant, maybe you should work as a nurse in Arizona. At one hospital, 16 ICU nurses are expecting -- at the same time.JUST WATCHED 16 Arizona nurses pregnant at same hospital Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 16 Arizona nurses pregnant at same hospital 00:55Kill the quoteSocial media strikes again. A Houston school took down a controversial quote posted in a hallway after an outraged mom put a picture of it on Twitter.QUOTE OF THE DAY"Truth isn't truth."Rudy Giuliani, to exasperated "Meet the Press" host Chuck Todd, , to exasperated "Meet the Press" host Chuck Todd, explaining why he won't let special counsel Robert Mueller rush President Trump into testifying in the Russia investigation.NUMBERS OF THE DAY$3.2 billionWhat Pepsi is spending to buy SodaStream , the maker of do-it-yourself seltzer makersJUST WATCHED Coke vs. Pepsi: The cola wars are back Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Coke vs. Pepsi: The cola wars are back 01:3510 hoursThat's how long a British woman tread water in the Adriatic Sea after she fell off a cruise ship . She was rescued by the Croatian Coast Guard.JUST WATCHED Woman rescued after falling off cruise ship Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman rescued after falling off cruise ship 00:59HAPPENING LATERMoonman momentsYes, the MTV Video Music Awards tonight will feature a big honor for Jennifer Lopez and performances by Ariana Grande, Post Malone and others, but everyone will be watching to see what kind of Aretha Franklin tribute it puts together.JUST WATCHED Hear Aretha Franklin's greatest songs Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hear Aretha Franklin's greatest songs 02:24AND FINALLY ...Slang school's in session