(CNN) Firefighters battling more than a dozen fires in California made major progress over the weekend, quadrupling the containment of one blaze threatening homes in the southern part of the state.Despite the progress made on containing the fires, firefighters are still battling dangerous conditions. Six firefighters have died so far in the fires across California. Four civilians have also been killed.For the past week, the blaze has scorched through canyons and across mountains in Orange and Riverside counties, fueled by dry vegetation as it crept into residential areas.With the firefighters' ongoing progress, authorities lifted evacuation orders in several neighborhoods in Lake Elsinore, the city most threatened by the fire.About 11,120 people remain under mandatory evacuation, down from 21,000 on Friday.A firefighter watches a helicopter drop water at the Holy Fire in Lake Elsinore Saturday.New normal?Firefighters in California are battling at least 11 large blazes, according to the National Interagency Fire Center.California is seeing more destructive wildfire seasons because of dry conditions and high temperatures, and California Gov. Jerry Brown has warned that this is the new normal. The state spent a quarter of its annual firefighting budget in July.The largest blaze in state history is the Mendocino Complex Fire, which consists of the Ranch and River fires in Northern California. It has burned a combined 349,890 acres and is 68% contained.The fire has killed one firefighter and injured two others. The firefighter, who was from Utah, was working on an active portion of the Ranch Fire within the Mendocino Complex Fire where he was injured Monday. The firefighter was airlifted to a local hospital, where he later died. The firefighter's cause of death is still under investigation and officials are in the process of notifying next of kin, Cal Fire spokesman Derek Tisinger said.The River Fire has been contained, and the larger Ranch Fire is 59% contained.Man accused of arsonForrest Gordon Clark, 51, was charged with aggravated arson and criminal threats, among other crimes, for allegedly starting the fire. He's being held on $1 million bail, and faces a maximum sentence of life in prison if convicted.A volunteer fire chief said that two weeks ago, Clark sent him a message saying, "The place is going to burn." Clark has denied involvement in starting the fire, saying, "It's all a lie."So far, the Holy Fire has scorched more than 22,700 acres in the Cleveland National Forest.Gov. Brown declared a state of emergency for Orange and Riverside counties, and several school districts have canceled classes due to fire warnings and unhealthy air quality.While it's not the largest burning in the state, the Holy Fire has raised concerns about effects on residential communities.Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A man cleans up red fire retardant dropped by a firefighting jet in Lake Elsinore, California on Sunday, August 12. Hide Caption 1 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A flag flies at half-staff amid the rubble of homes burned in the Carr Fire, on Sunday, August 12. Hide Caption 2 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Homes destroyed by a wildfire in Redding, California are seen from an aerial view on Friday, August 10 Hide Caption 3 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A helicopter drops water on flames in Lake Elsinore, California, on Friday, August 10. Hide Caption 4 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Rose Wyckoff holds up three kittens August 10 in a Redding neighborhood that has been destroyed by the Carr Fire. Hide Caption 5 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California King Bass, 6, and his 5-year-old sister, Princess, watch the Holy Fire burn from the top of their parents' car in Lake Elsinore on Thursday, August 9. Hide Caption 6 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters monitor a backfire while battling part of the Mendocino Complex Fire near Ladoga on Tuesday, August 7. Hide Caption 7 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A plane drops fire retardant behind homes as the Holy Fire burns in Lake Elsinore on Wednesday, August 8. Hide Caption 8 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters work on stopping the Mendocino Complex Fire, which is made up of the River and Ranch fires. Hide Caption 9 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter makes his way down a hillside while battling the Mendocino Complex Fire on August 7. Hide Caption 10 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A supertanker jet flies above the Holy Fire near Lake Elsinore on August 7. Hide Caption 11 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Crystal Easter comforts her dogs as they flee a wildfire in Spring Valley on Monday, August 6. Hide Caption 12 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr and Ferguson fires are visible from space in an image taken by European Space Agency astronaut Alexander Gerst on Friday, August 3. Hide Caption 13 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Ventura County firefighters watch as a helicopter makes a drop on a hot spot in Scotts Valley on August 3. Hide Caption 14 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California An airplane drops fire retardant in Lakeport on Thursday, August 2. Hide Caption 15 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Flames from a wildfire move up a ridge near Lakeport on August 2. Hide Caption 16 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Flames from a wildfire advance down a hillside near Lakeport on August 2. Hide Caption 17 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter walks around a swimming pool that had been sprayed by fire retardant near Lakeport. Hide Caption 18 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California An air tanker drops fire retardant near Redding on August 2. Hide Caption 19 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A tower of smoke pours from Cow Mountain as a firefighter keeps a watch on surrounding vegetation. Hide Caption 20 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr Fire can be seen from a commercial flight flying over Redding on Wednesday, August 1. Hide Caption 21 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters conduct a controlled burn to defend houses from the Ranch Fire as it moves toward Upper Lake. Hide Caption 22 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Ranch and River fires make up the Mendocino Complex Fire, which has been raging in and near the southeast corner of the Mendocino National Forest, northwest of Sacramento. Hide Caption 23 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A barn burns on Tuesday, July 31, as the River Fire moves through Lakeport. Hide Caption 24 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter runs while trying to save a house in Lakeport. Hide Caption 25 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters try to control a back burn as the Carr Fire spreads toward the towns of Douglas City and Lewiston on July 31. Hide Caption 26 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A woman leaves Lakeport as the River Fire approaches on July 31. Hide Caption 27 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A house burns as the River Fire moves through the Lakeport area on July 31. Hide Caption 28 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Firefighters in Upper Lake watch a back burn on July 31. Hide Caption 29 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr Fire leaves cars destroyed near Redding on July 31. Hide Caption 30 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Fire retardant is dropped near a home as the Mendocino Complex Fire burns near Lakeport on Monday, July 30. Hide Caption 31 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter walks through smoke while fighting to save a winery in Lakeport on July 30. Hide Caption 32 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A house near Finley burns from the Mendocino Complex Fire on July 30. Hide Caption 33 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Boats sit at Whiskeytown Lake, near where the Carr Fire originated, on Sunday, July 29. Hide Caption 34 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Deer graze along a road covered in fire retardant as the Carr Fire burns near Redding on Saturday, July 28. Hide Caption 35 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A fire truck drives along Highway 299 as the Carr fire continues to burn near Whiskeytown on July 28. Hide Caption 36 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The setting sun is turned red by smoke from the Carr Fire on Friday, July 27. Hide Caption 37 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Burned-out properties are seen in Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 38 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighting helicopter makes a water drop as the sun sets over a ridge burning near Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 39 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A large pyrocumulus cloud explodes near Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 40 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Flames from the Carr Fire burn through trees near Whiskeytown on July 27. Hide Caption 41 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A burning home is reflected in a pool in Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 42 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter monitors a backfire while battling the Carr Fire on July 27. The fire grew rapidly, ravaging several small communities and jumping the Sacramento River before threatening the outskirts of Redding. Hide Caption 43 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter lights backfires in Redding on July 27. Hide Caption 44 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Cranston Fire burns in San Bernardino National Forest, near Idyllwild, on Thursday, July 26. The Cranston Fire has prompted thousands to flee their homes. Hide Caption 45 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr Fire burns along Highway 299 on July 26. Hide Caption 46 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California The Carr Fire tears through Shasta on July 26. Hide Caption 47 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A historic schoolhouse burns in Shasta on July 26. Hide Caption 48 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California A firefighter walks along Highway 299 as the Carr Fire tears through Shasta on July 26. Hide Caption 49 of 50 Photos: Massive wildfires scorching California Smoke from the Ferguson Fire fills California's Yosemite Valley on Wednesday, July 25. Some of the most iconic areas of Yosemite National Park were forced to close because of the wildfire. Hide Caption 50 of 50The Carr FireThe second biggest is the Carr Fire in Shasta County, also in Northern California. The deadly fire has burned for nearly three weeks and killed eight people. It has consumed 206,816 acres so far and is 63% contained.Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue and Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke visited the city of Redding Monday, where the Carr Fire is burning.On Sunday Zinke posted images to Twitter of destruction in Shasta County.Wow. This used to be the neighborhood of some of my employees. Despite losing everything they own, many of them still come to work to restore power, fight fires, and repair damaged facilities. My heart and gratitude goes out to all of them. #Carrfire pic.twitter.com/fvUzWvV0eN — Secretary Ryan Zinke (@SecretaryZinke) August 12, 2018"Wow. This used to be the neighborhood of some of my employees. Despite losing everything they own, many of them still come to work to restore power, fight fires, and repair damaged facilities. My heart and gratitude goes out to all of them," Zinke tweeted."I have no words that describe the loss and devastation experienced by the community. I've been to a lot of fires and this is just something else. We are here for you," he said.Yosemite sites reopeningThe third largest is the Ferguson Fire, near Yosemite National Park, incinerating more than 96,000 acres. It has lasted nearly a month and is 86% contained.The National Park Service says Yosemite's Mariposa Grove of Giant Sequoias will reopen to the public on Monday at 9 a.m. and the Yosemite Valley on Tuesday. Both had been closed due to the Ferguson Fire and the NPS warned motorists to be cautious of fire and smoke on the roads."We'd like to express our sincere gratitude to the firefighters and Incident command teams for their great efforts in suppressing the Ferguson Fire. We'd also like to express our gratitude and thanks to our gateway communities who tirelessly helped visitors to the area while they were being impacted by the fire," the park's superintendent said in a release.Fire officials have issued a grim prediction, warning that massive blazes will cost the state billions of dollars more over the next decade."What we're seeing in California right now is more destructive, larger fires burning at rates that we have historically never seen," Cal Fire spokesman Jonathan Cox said.Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly named the national park near the Ferguson Fire. It is Yosemite National Park.