(CNN) Here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Doo r. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Facebook killingSteve Stephens is dead. He shot and killed himself after a police chase . Police say Stephens killed an elderly man he saw walking down a Cleveland street, then posted a video of the man's death to Facebook . A nationwide manhunt for Stephens had gone on for days, but it was a trip to a McDonald's drive-thru in Pennsylvania -- for Chicken McNuggets and an order of fries -- that was the beginning of the end for Stephens. An employee recognized him and called police; then Stephens was told he'd have to wait a minute for his fries. Stephens drove off, but state police already were in hot pursuit. Stephens shot himself in the head after a state trooper rammed his car, police said.2. Georgia runoffThere's going to be a runoff for a Georgia congressional seat in a race seen by some as a referendum on President Trump's popularity . Democrat Jon Ossoff almost pulled off a stunner , finishing well ahead of 11 GOP challengers in yesterday's special election but falling just short of the percentage he needed to win outright. The seat, in a Republican stronghold in Atlanta's northern suburbs, has been held by the GOP since the 1970s. Ossoff will likely face an uphill climb in the June runoff, since it's expected conservative voters will rally to the second-place finisher, Republican Karen Handel.3. British electionJUST WATCHED One thing to know about the UK's snap election Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH One thing to know about the UK's snap election 01:124. Fresno shootingJUST WATCHED Police: Killing of 3 white men is a hate crime Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police: Killing of 3 white men is a hate crime 01:00Three people were shot and killed within two minutes of each other last night in downtown Fresno, California. Police say the suspect, a black man who spoke on social media about his dislike for white people , fired 16 rounds in less than 90 seconds, killing three white men. The victims were apparently picked at random. Police are calling this a hate crime.5. Bill O'ReillyJUST WATCHED Does Fox News have a harassment problem? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Does Fox News have a harassment problem? 02:44Is Bill O'Reilly heading for the exits? The Fox News talk show host and the network are reportedly negotiating how he'll leave . O'Reilly's been under fire ever since word came out that millions were paid to settle sexual harassment claims brought against him by female Fox employees. Advertisers have been fleeing his show ever since. O'Reilly getting the boot from Fox would be a stunner. He's been with the network since its start and is its biggest star. Fox dumped founder Roger Ailes last year over sex harassment complaints.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.The family that smokes togetherSinger Melissa Etheridge said she feels closer to her adult children ever since she started smoking pot with themCall me maybeSomeone stole 100 cell phones at Coachella, so concert-goers used the Find My iPhone app to track down the culprit.One-horned wonderWho says unicorns aren't real? They exist at Starbucks (at least this week) in the form of special pink and blue Frappuccinos.Add the rainbowSince no selfie is complete without a sparkling rainbow or a field of blooming flowers in the background, Snapchat is rolling out spiffy new 3D filters.Archaeological jackpotEight mummies. Ten sarcophagi. A ton of figurines. Not a bad haul that Egyptian archaeologists dug out of 3,500-year-old tombs.TODAY'S NUMBER$107 millionThat's how much President Trump raised from corporations and rich donors for his inauguration. It's a record.AND FINALLY ...I fought the law, and the law lost