(CNN) Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .By the way, you can also get "5 Things" as an e-mailed newsletter. Sign up here1. Supreme Court nominationSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is probably going to push the button on the "nuclear option" this week to get Neil Gorsuch confirmed to the Supreme Court. The Dems have enough votes to filibuster Gorsuch, but McConnell and the GOP have vowed to get rid of that option -- meaning Gorsuch would be able to get confirmed with a simple majority of 51 votes instead of 60. If it happens now, it could end up being the rule for future Supremes nominees as well. And if this does happen, CNN's Chris Cillizza says, the Senate would be less like the world's greatest deliberative body and more like, well, the House.2. Russia bombingA suspect has been ID'd in the bombing of a train in St. Petersburg. His name is Akbarjon Djalilov, and he's a Russian citizen who was born in Kyrgyzstan. The attack killed 14 people and injured dozens. It happened between two stations that have since reopened. A second device was found and defused at another station. Russian's anti-terror agency is investigating. Possible suspects include Chechen separatists and ISIS -- or a combination of the two. Russia had seen a drop in terror attacks recently after enduring several over many years.3. Police reforms4. Internet privacyJUST WATCHED What to know about Internet privacy changes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What to know about Internet privacy changes 01:20Your web-browsing history could be up for sale -- without your permission -- now that President Trump has signed a law that repeals protections forcing internet service providers to get your OK before collecting and sharing data. The rules were approved during the last days of the Obama administration but hadn't yet gone into effect. In addition to your browsing history, service providers have data on your app usage and geo-location. Proponents of the repeal, including the GOP-led Congress , said the Obama-era rules were unfair because they forced internet service providers to get permission for your data while web behemoths like Facebook and Google didn't have to.5. WeatherJUST WATCHED Watch: Lightning strikes only a few feet away Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch: Lightning strikes only a few feet away 00:36A storm that killed five people in the South is expected to bring rain today to DC, New York and Boston. The storm produced a tornado with 100-mile-per-hour winds in Louisiana that killed a woman and her young child when their mobile home was blown over. People also were killed in South Carolina and Mississippi. The deadly system comes as the spring tornado season is revving up; it usually starts in the South, where it's warmer, and peaks in May or June. Check in with the CNN Weather Center for updates in your area.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.We are the championsName gameGood-bye, Yahoo and AOL. Hello ... Oath? Yeah, two of the most iconic names in tech might combine to produce the most bland name in historyRed redoSmartphones mean we really don't use those iconic red telephone boxes in the UK for calls anymore. But don't toss 'em out -- just give 'em a makeover.Two smart girlsThe cashier asked the little white girl if she really wanted to buy that black doll . Her answer gives us all a lesson on the importance of looking past color.Word upNext time your stuck-up grammar-nerd friend says "hangry" isn't a word, just send her to Dictionary.com, which added that and 300 other onesTODAY'S NUMBER$65,000The cost of a drug used to treat multiple sclerosis for a year. The drug maker was recently given the OK to sell it at that price, drawing both praise and criticismAND FINALLY ...Purr-fect