(CNN) President Trump and his Chinese counterpart continue their meetings today in Florida . As you plan your day, here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .By the way, you can also get "5 Things" as an e-mailed newsletter. Sign up here1. SyriaThe US launched a military strike against Syria, just a few days after a deadly chemical attack on civilians. It's the first direct military action the US has taken against Syria during its six-year civil war . Here's what we know right now:: President Trump ordered the strike. US warships launched 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles at the Syrian airbase where the planes that carried out the chemical attack were based. Six people were killed in the airstrike, Syria's military said.Why: Trump said it was vital that the US stop the spread and use of chemical weapons. He said Syrian President Bashar al-Assad had : Trump said it was vital that the US stop the spread and use of chemical weapons. He said Syrian President Bashar al-Assad had "choked out the lives" of innocent men, women and children.The reaction: Russia, a key Syrian ally, is not happy. Vladimir Putin blasted the strike as "aggression against a sovereign state" and said it deals a : Russia, a key Syrian ally, is not happy. Vladimir Putin blasted the strike as "aggression against a sovereign state" and said it deals a big blow to US-Russian relations . There were Russians on the air base that was hit, but the US gave Russia a heads-up before launching missiles. Russia said it was also suspending an agreement between coalition and Russian air forces to avoid midair incidents. Stateside, most US lawmakers were supportive of Trump's action but warned him to consult with Congress if further action is planned.What's next: So was this a one-off, or the start of a larger US campaign against the Syrian regime? : So was this a one-off, or the start of a larger US campaign against the Syrian regime? We just don't know yet. In his speech, Trump offered little clarity on the future. Just a few days ago, the President said he'd be comfortable leaving the Assad regime alone. Now the world waits to see just how involved the US will get in this deadly conflict.2. Supreme Court nominationJUST WATCHED The man who could replace Justice Scalia Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The man who could replace Justice Scalia 00:48In the US Senate, the proverbial nuclear button has been pushed. Now let's see what the fallout will be . The Senate voted -- along party lines -- to change its rules and allow Supreme Court picks to be confirmed with a simple majority, instead of 60 votes. So the confirmation of Neil Gorsuch is all but assured when the Senate votes later this morning on his nomination. It's also assured that the nature of the Senate has probably been changed forever3. Russia investigation4. Baltimore police5. ObamacareBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Time for a name change?Coal is king in Kentucky, but not at the Kentucky Coal Mining Museum. It will soon be running on solar powerI would have gotten away with it, too, if it weren't for you meddling kidsThe next crop of Woodwards and Bernsteins may be in Kansas, where high school journalists launched an investigation into their principal.Love never diesThey may not officially be a family anymore, but a divorced couple and their young son still get together for a formal portrait.Fantastic fourLots of decisions have to be made in the Wade household, now that the family's quadruplet brothers have all been accepted to Harvard, Yale and DukeVote stopperElection day is sacred in Israel, unless Britney Spears is giving a concert on the same day. In that case, you just postpone it.AND FINALLY ...Crazy inflation