(CNN) A pair of bombings signals an absolutely horrifying start to our week. It's Monday and here are the 5 things you need to know today to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . ( Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to you as a morning newsletter. Sign up here .)Palm Sunday massacreISIS targeted two Coptic Christian churches in Egypt on Palm Sunday, killing at least 49 people. At one church, an explosive device was placed under a seat. At the other, a suicide bomber blew himself up outside. Witnesses described hellish scenes: marble pillars covered with blood, bodies and body parts scattered everywhere . Egypt's president declared three days of mourning and will soon issue a three-month state of emergency. Coptic Christians are a minority in the country -- about 10% of the population. Many of them say the government hasn't done enough to stop attacks against them.Syria civil warNorth KoreaJUST WATCHED How much damage can North Korea's weapons do? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How much damage can North Korea's weapons do? 01:04Venezuela protestsProtesters and security forces have been mixing it up for days in the capital city of Caracas. And the confrontations turned violent over the weekend . The protesters want all seven justices of the Supreme Court gone, after the court issued a ruling (later reversed) that would have transferred power from the National Assembly to the court. The court is stacked with government loyalists, by the way. The government also banned a popular opposition leader for 15 years, sparking more protests.College tuitionGot a kid that'll be starting college soon? You might want to move to New York. The state will soon be the first in the nation to make college tuition free for middle class students at two-year and four-year public colleges. Gov. Andrew Cuomo pushed for the plan earlier this year. Lawmakers OK'd it in the state budget over the weekend.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Finally!After probably half a dozen near-misses, golfer Sergio Garcia finally won his first major, triumphing in a sudden-death playoff at The Masters.JUST WATCHED Sergio wins The Masters Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sergio wins The Masters 02:57Here it comesA big asteroid is headed toward Earth, but don't worry, it won't end up like "Deep Impact" or "Armageddon."Horrible newsA news anchor in India read the story of a fatal car accident and then realized her own husband was a victimJUST WATCHED News anchor reports husband's death Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH News anchor reports husband's death 01:05Skip the saladLove storyThey survived acts of hate and violence -- acid attacks -- to find love amid their suffering.Aarti Thakur and Prashant PingaleWHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening laterA bit like high schoolJUST WATCHED How the Supreme Court is a bit like high school Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How the Supreme Court is a bit like high school 02:49Power playsImpeachment hearings start today for Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley. An explosive new report says he abused his power to cover up an affair with an ex-stafferJUST WATCHED Accusations mounting against Governor Bentley Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Accusations mounting against Governor Bentley 02:11AND FINALLY ...I'm hangry!This frisky little feline wants to eat all the snacks.