(CNN) What's that smell? Happy 4/20 Day . Here's what you need to know today to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Aaron Hernandez2. Fresno shootingsKori Ali Muhammad was already a wanted man before police say he killed three people in a shooting spree in downtown Fresno, California. Police had been looking for him in the killing of a motel security guard. He told cops he thought the guard disrespected him . But Muhammad wasn't going down just for killing a guard, Fresno's police chief said, so he tried "to kill as many people as he could." The victim's loved ones are devastated, especially their kids . Racism -- Muhammad said he hated white men -- is thought to be the primary motive in the rampage, so police are calling it a hate crime. But it's not always clear what the criteria are for labeling an act of violence a hate crime or terrorism3. Bill O'ReillyJUST WATCHED Bill O'Reilly is out at Fox News Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bill O'Reilly is out at Fox News 01:154. Wells Fargo5. GM and VenezuelaJUST WATCHED Why Venezuelans are protesting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Venezuelans are protesting 01:54BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Thirsty fanWhat would you do if you broke into your fave celeb's house? Swim in the pool? Swipe a memento? This Drake fan just wanted something to drinkQueen MumThe queen of tennis will soon have a little princess or prince. Serena Williams is pregnant. She went to -- where else? -- Snapchat to make the announcement.Rock onAn asteroid will do a really close flyby of Earth this week, but don't worry, we're not going to die. NASA even took a picture of the rock.Major markupGood news. You can now get Ikea's iconic 99-cent blue tote bag -- for about $2,145 at Balenciaga . Now that's smart shopping!Prof problemsHow to get an unexpected break from teaching your college history class: 1. Tweet that the President "must hang" ; 2. Endure the blowback and apologize; 3. Enjoy your paid leave.AND FINALLY ...Light bright