(CNN) It's a great Friday morning for Myles Garrett, who was the No. 1 pick in the NFL draft. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. ( Sign up here .)1. North KoreaWe're getting something of a mixed message from the Trump administration on North Korea. President Trump said there's a good chance the US could have a "major, major conflict" with the nation , as tensions remain high over its nuke program. But Secretary of State Rex Tillerson struck a more optimistic tone, saying direct talks with the regime would be "the way we would like to solve this." VP Mike Pence said earlier this month that there would be no talks with the North "until they had denuclearized." Tillerson today chairs a special meeting of the UN Security Council to discuss Pyongyang. Congress next week is due to vote on a bill to authorize new sanctions against North Korea2. President Trump3. Pope FrancisJUST WATCHED Pope Francis' most memorable moments Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pope Francis' most memorable moments 01:054. Driving under the influenceMore people died while driving under the influence of drugs than while driving drunk in 2015, a new report finds. That's the first time that's ever happened . In 2015, 43% of drivers killed in wrecks were driving drugged, while 37% were driving drunk. But highway safety experts are skeptical of the findings , saying alcohol use remains the biggest concern on the nation's roads; they want to see more research on drugged driving.JUST WATCHED Your brain on weed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Your brain on weed 01:395. United AirlinesJUST WATCHED The entire United passenger fiasco Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The entire United passenger fiasco 02:01One more thing ...executed convicted killer Kenneth Williams overnight, the state's Arkansasovernight, the state's fourth execution this weekBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Facebook frenzyYes, the "10 bands" meme is sweeping through Facebook, but do we really care about the acts our friends have (or haven't) seen?Here's JohnnyThat was Johnny Depp at Disneyland, giving shocked fans the full-on Capt. Jack Sparrow in the middle of the Pirates of the Caribbean ride.First things firstThe First Amendment protects a lot of things, but it doesn't do half the stuff y'all swear it does. Here, we've got a lesson for you.Pope's paradiseDoes Pope Francis ever take a break? First he got a laundromat for the poor. Now he's renting a private beach so disabled people can have fun in the sun.Back to the futureHere's the hot new item that all the cool kids are carrying -- real books. E-book sales have tanked as people return in droves to the printed word.AND FINALLY ...Epic road race