(CNN) You might grab a donut instead of a bagel now that the Krispy Kreme owner has bought Panera . While you carb-load, fuel up with the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.By the way, you can also get "5 Things" as an e-mailed newsletter. Sign up here1. Syria attackThe deadly chemical attack on civilians in Syria has brought that country's horrendous civil war back to the forefront. President Trump said it " crossed a lot of lines " for him and changed the way he views Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Many wonder if it will change his mind about Vladimir Putin, too, since it's the Russian leader's support for Syria's regime that's given Assad an upper hand. Survivors of the attack described chemical bombs dropped from planes -- contradicting Syrian and Russian government accounts. One man said he lost 25 relatives in the attack. The President didn't say how US strategy on Syria might change but said he now has "responsibility" when it comes to the conflict.2. China3. Susan RiceWithout offering evidence, President Trump suggested Susan Rice committed a crime when the ex-national security adviser asked to unmask names of Trump associates mentioned in intel reports. It's all tied to Trump's claims that the Obama White House spied on him. Rice has said she was just doing her job and didn't leak names to the press. Some conservatives see Rice as something of an uber-villain (think Benghazi and Bowe Bergdahl). Ex-Obama adviser David Axelrod stood up for her , saying Trump should provide any evidence he has and slamming the allegation as beneath the dignity of the President's office.4. National Security CouncilJUST WATCHED What you need to know about Steve Bannon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What you need to know about Steve Bannon 01:275. Alabama governorThings have gone from bad to worse for Alabama's governor. A state commission says Gov. Robert Bentley may have violated state ethics and campaign finance laws. The case has been sent to a district attorney. If he's charged and convicted, Bentley could face jail time and fines . Bentley's been accused of using state resources to carry on an affair with a former staffer who resigned amid the controversy . Explicit audio from 2014 allegedly reveals Bentley talking dirty with her. In 2016, Bentley's wife divorced him and lawmakers considered impeaching him . This new ethics report may rekindle the effort to drive him from office.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Super scholarsAnother day, another super scholar. A North Dakota teen got into all of the Ivy League schools on the same week a New Jersey teen achieved the same feat.Repeat after meMeanwhile, this teen from New Jersey wrote #BlackLivesMatter 100 times in his application to Stanford -- and it worked.Tunneling throughIt's full steam ahead on Norway's plans to build the world's first ship tunnel , a mile-long passage big enough for huge cruise and freight ships.One is the loneliest numberWow, Shia LaBeouf's not the box office draw he used to be . His latest movie opened in the UK and sold exactly one ticket over the weekend.TODAY'S NUMBER8,000+Number of Uber and Lyft drivers banned from driving in Massachusetts after they failed the state's new, tougher background checks.AND FINALLY ...News you can use?