(CNN) Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. The Academy AwardsIf you fell asleep during last night's Oscar as it droned on and on , you missed one heckuva twist ending:-- The winner ofwas '' ... until it wasn't! Announcer pulled a Steve Harvey - and his reason for the flub just added to the intrigue-- The real winner was ' Moonlight ' - so we suppose the Oscars got it right by getting it wrong.Politics was a --was a hot topicJimmy Kimmel surprised tourists who had --surprised tourists who had no idea they were coming to the eventViola Davis won the Oscar for --won the Oscar for best Oscar acceptance speechAsghar Farhadi, the Iranian director, who won for Best Foreign Language Film skipped the event --, the Iranian director, who won for Best Foreign Language Film skipped the event over the travel banAsghar Farhadi chose not to attend the 89th Academy Awards.2. PoliticsSo. Much. News. Here goes:a budget outline that calls for a major hike in military spending and spares cuts to Social Security and Medicare. But some agencies, such as the EPA, -- Today, the White House will releasethat calls for a major hike in military spending and spares cuts to Social Security and Medicare. But some agencies, such as won't be so lucky . None of this is a surprise - President Trump had promised as much during his campaign.Philip Bilden, who was being considered for Secretary of the Navy, Secretary of the Army also withdrew. --, who was being considered for has withdrawn his name . Earlier this month, the man who was being considered foralso withdrew. Both gave the same reason : They'd have a hard time disengaging themselves from their business ties.Democratic Party elected Tom Perez as its new chair and Keith Ellison. Perez appointed Ellison as deputy chair and -- The batteredelectedas its new chair and progressives were NOT pleased . They'd pinned their hopes on Minnesota Rep.. Perez appointed Ellison as deputy chair and vowed an all-out battle to deny Trump a second term.Rep. Keith Ellison, left, and Tom PerezSean Spicer called his staffers into his office and -- White House press secretarycalled his staffers into his office and checked their cell phones - both government-issued and personal - to make sure they weren't communicating with reporters. It's part of an aggressive effort to stem the recent tide of White House leaksJohn Kelly says immigration enforcement would be limited to criminals and the travel ban -- Homeland Security chiefy says immigration enforcement would be limited to criminals and the travel ban won't target Muslims3. Anti-Semitic incidentsAnother Jewish cemetery has been vandalized, this time in Philadelphia. A man visiting his dad's grave at Mount Carmel Cemetery found three headstones kicked over. When cops arrived, they found about 100 more . There are three Christian cemeteries nearby; they weren't damaged. Last week, vandals knocked over more than 100 headstones at a cemetery in St. LouisVandalism at Mount Carmel Cemetery in Philadelphia.4. Kim Jong NamThis real-life whodunit gets more bizarre by the day. This morning, South Korea's spy agency said North Korea's foreign and national security ministries are behind the murder of Kim Jong Un's half-brother. Kim Jong Nam's autopsy showed he likely died within 20 minutes after he was exposed to a nerve agent at the Kuala Lumpur airport in Malaysia. That's not surprising because the nerve agent is believed to be VX . If you're having a hard time keeping up, here's a timeline5. Celebrity deaths-- In the 1990s, he starred in a string of blockbusters: "Twister," "Titanic" and "Apollo 13." In recent years, he left his mark with acclaimed TV roles, particularly as the patriarch of a polygamist family in "Big Love." Bill Paxton has died from, what a family rep said was, complications of surgery. He was 61.Yesterday, we also learned of Judge Joseph Wapner's death. His popular reality show, "The People's Court," inspired decades of similar shows , such as "Judge Judy." Wapner died of natural causes at 97.Judge Joseph WapnerBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Award-worthy badRazzie voters went political this year, bestowing "Hillary's America: The Secret History of the Democratic Party" with not just worst picture, but also worst actor, director and actress (for the unnamed person who played Clinton).You get a ride, and you get a rideRise and fall$6 billion: What LivingSocial was valued, at its heightNothing but a numberTo comfort and calmThe preemies at this UK hospital's NICU unit have an unlikely companion -- colorful, crocheted octopiAnd finally ...It's called acting, dear boy