Photos: Sloth steals the spotlight at CNN Heroes Anderson Cooper, host of 'CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute,' meets Snooki before the big show. Hide Caption 1 of 13Photos: Sloth steals the spotlight at CNN Heroes Anderson learns that sloths like it when you blow gently on their face. This is why we have rehearsals. Hide Caption 2 of 13Photos: Sloth steals the spotlight at CNN Heroes At rehearsal, everyone wanted a photo. But Snooki preferred getting ready for her close-up. Hide Caption 3 of 13Photos: Sloth steals the spotlight at CNN Heroes How'd she do? Hide Caption 4 of 13Photos: Sloth steals the spotlight at CNN Heroes Actually, under the care of her handler from the LEO Zoological Conservation Center , Snooki seemed up for almost anything, Hide Caption 5 of 13Photos: Sloth steals the spotlight at CNN Heroes Of course, before her onstage appearance, Snooki had to make a pit stop in the makeup chair. Okay, not really. Hide Caption 6 of 13Photos: Sloth steals the spotlight at CNN Heroes Host Anderson Cooper walked on stage carrying Snooki. "This is basically a dream come true," he told the audience. Hide Caption 7 of 13Photos: Sloth steals the spotlight at CNN Heroes For the rest of the show, Snooki hung out backstage on her own red carpet. Literally. Hide Caption 8 of 13Photos: Sloth steals the spotlight at CNN Heroes That's where Sharon Stone couldn't resist getting to know Snooki a little better. Hide Caption 9 of 13Photos: Sloth steals the spotlight at CNN Heroes How is this for "squad goals?" Snooki and her trainer, Marcella Leone, Founder and Director of the LEO Zoological Conservation Center , with, from left, Kathy Griffin, Kelly Ripa and Victoria Justice. Hide Caption 10 of 13Photos: Sloth steals the spotlight at CNN Heroes Grammy nominee Andra Day wowed the audience with her performance of 'Rise Up.' She was wowed while hanging out with Snooki, too. Hide Caption 11 of 13Photos: Sloth steals the spotlight at CNN Heroes Neil Patrick Harris presented Top 10 CNN Hero Monique Pool with her award for her work rescuing, rehabilitating and releasing sloths in Suriname. He welcomed her to the stage as "the person who proves sloth is a virtue." Hide Caption 12 of 13