Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police officers stand guard as they investigate a suspicious vehicle in Redlands, California, on Wednesday, December 2, after a mass shooting in nearby San Bernardino in which 14 people died and 21 were injured. The shooting took place at the Inland Regional Center, where employees with the county health department were attending a holiday event. The two shooters -- Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik -- were fatally shot in a gun battle with police hours after the initial incident. Farook worked for the county health department. Hide Caption 1 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting A police officer places a marker along East San Bernardino Avenue, near where the shootout occurred. Hide Caption 2 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting Law enforcement officers search a residential area for suspects who fled after the shooting. Hide Caption 3 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police search for the suspects in San Bernardino. Hide Caption 4 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting The residential area was not far from where the shooting occurred. Hide Caption 5 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting Law enforcement officers search a neighborhood in San Bernardino. Hide Caption 6 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting A police officer loads his weapon while pursuing suspects. Hide Caption 7 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting A SWAT team mobilizes during the search. Hide Caption 8 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting People pray on the San Bernardino Golf Course, across the street from where the shooting took place. Hide Caption 9 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting Heavily armed law enforcement officers swarmed the area where the shooting occurred. Hide Caption 10 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting People leave a community center after reuniting with friends and family in the aftermath of the shootings. Hide Caption 11 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting A woman is comforted near the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 12 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting A police helicopter hovers around the Inland Regional Center. Hide Caption 13 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting Luis Gutierrez gets emotional as he talks about his wife who works in the facility and saw a gunman, according to Los Angeles Times photographer Marcus Yam. Hide Caption 14 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting Two women speak with a firefighter at a triage area near the scene. Hide Caption 15 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police stand guard outside of the emergency room at the Loma Linda University Medical Center, where some of the victims were being treated. Hide Caption 16 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police escort civilians away from the site of the shooting. Hide Caption 17 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting People walk away from the scene. It is unclear how many people were at the facility at the time of the shooting. Hide Caption 18 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police in SWAT gear secure the area. Hide Caption 19 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting Two women embrace at a community center where family members were gathering to pick up people from the scene. Hide Caption 20 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting People gather at the San Bernardino Golf Course. Hide Caption 21 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting People talk to police at the golf course. Hide Caption 22 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting A woman is wheeled away on a stretcher. Hide Caption 23 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting People are moved away from the area by bus. Hide Caption 24 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting Police and fire personnel are seen near the site of the shooting. Hide Caption 25 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting A crowd gathers behind the police line. Hide Caption 26 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting Ambulances pull out of a staging area near the Inland Regional Center. Hide Caption 27 of 29Photos: San Bernardino shooting A SWAT vehicle carries police officers. Hide Caption 28 of 29