(CNN) Extreme rainfall this week has claimed two lives in Oregon and prompted states of emergencies there and in Washington state. Storms spawned a tornado not far from the state line.Fire and maintenance personnel look at a large sinkhole in Gresham, Oregon, on December 9.Fire and maintenance personnel look at a large sinkhole in Gresham, Oregon, on December 9.Jeff Limb steers his boat through a flooded area of the Snoqualmie River, near the Tolt Hill Bridge in Carnation, Washington, on December 9.Jeff Limb steers his boat through a flooded area of the Snoqualmie River, near the Tolt Hill Bridge in Carnation, Washington, on December 9.A 5-year-old boy walks on a flooded street outside of Duvall, Washington, on December 9.A 5-year-old boy walks on a flooded street outside of Duvall, Washington, on December 9.Kevin McLeod, co-owner of the Riverview RV Park, wades through floodwaters December 9 in Puyallup, Washington.Kevin McLeod, co-owner of the Riverview RV Park, wades through floodwaters December 9 in Puyallup, Washington.A house in Portland, Oregon, lies in ruins Wednesday, December 9, after a tree fell and killed a 60-year-old woman in the early hours of the morning. Heavy rain and winds have battered Oregon and Washington state, causing widespread flooding and power outages.The deluge set a record in Portland, which saw 2.75 inches of rain on Monday, setting a daily record, CNN affiliate KOIN said.Also in Portland, a fallen tree trapped a 60-year-old woman in her bed on Wednesday, killing her, Lt. Rich Tyler with Portland Fire and Rescue told Oregonlive.comAnd in Clatskanie, a woman drowned Wednesday after the car she was in drove into high water, CNN affiliate KOIN reported, citing a fire official. A man who was also in the car escaped through its sunroof.States of emergencyAs the weather forecast predicted a steady stream of rainfall to come in off the Pacific for the rest of the week, Oregon Gov. Kate Brown declared a state of emergency in a dozen counties."Heavy rains and wind have required the evacuation of residences, and mudslides and high water have severely damaged or blocked major roadways in these areas of the state," Gov. Brown said late Thursday.In neighboring Washington state, where streets and homes were flooded, and landslides closed some highways, Gov. Jay Inslee declared a state of emergency on Wednesday.E-F1 twisterEarly Thursday, a twister tore through an area near Battle Ground, Washington, close to the state line with Oregon, the National Weather Service said. Tornadoes are most common in the U.S. midsection from Texas to roughly Minnesota, and they are also common in the Deep South.But in the Northwest and upper Northeast of the country, they are rare, the weather service has said.The tornado was measured as an E-F1, a relatively weak reading for a tornado on the Enhanced Fujita scale. Its maximum winds measured 104 mph.It touched down twice, damaging dozens of homes and two businesses, but did not tear off roofs. Dozens of stout trees were uprooted or snapped.15 inches rainOn Tuesday and Wednesday, 15 inches of rain flooded several areas of the Oregon coast, and residents in Tillamook couldn't cross a bridge to get to work, CNN affiliate KPTV reported."It's nuts. Just trying to get out of my neighborhood was bad," Adam Goldsborough told the station.The Nehalem River crested at 23 feet Wednesday morning, the fourth worst recorded levels of the river in its history, officials told the news outlet.The Wilson River crested at 20 feet, the highest it's been since 2006, threatening an RV park."We had to move. We moved our trailer at 9 last night, got to bed at 10. I'm guessing this is going to be the second or third worst flood here over the years. A lot of people are comparing it to '96," Vicki Tarpley told KPTV on Wednesday.