Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A social media fail. A damning report. And a sad RSVP. It's Wednesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door:CAMPAIGN 2016: Once upon a time, America tuned out political candidates around Christmastime because, you know, PRESENTS! Good luck with that this year . Here's a recap of yesterday's episode of "Goodwill towards men":The Donald stuck to his guns (surprise!) and said the word he used to describe Hilz' 2008 primary loss - 'schlonged' -- isn't vulgar (it is).Hilz stood by her claim (surprise!) that ISIS uses Trump videos to recruit terrorists (it doesn't).And the Clinton camp got a lesson in trying too hard when it tried to list ways how Hilz is just like your abuela. The post backfired spectacularly. Can you say Hispandering?SYRIA CIVIL WARA sledgehammer approach: Russia says its air campaign in Syria targets ISIS. The U.S. says it targets the opposition. A damning Amnesty International report says it doesn't matter, because hundreds of civilians are being pummeled to death. Amnesty says Russia's firing off missiles and dropping bombs without really targeting anything. So, : Russia says its air campaign in Syria targets ISIS. The U.S. says it targets the opposition. A damning Amnesty International report says it doesn't matter, because hundreds of civilians are being pummeled to death. Amnesty says Russia's firing off missiles and dropping bombs without really targeting anything. So, they end up hitting homes and hospitals . Russian President Vladimir Putin said we ain't seen nothing yet. Moscow has more advanced military force it plans to use, he chest-thumped.CHINA LANDSLIDEThe nick of time: The "rule of threes" is a good guide to long we can live without air, water and food (roughly 3 minutes, 3 days and 3 weeks, respectively). So what happened in Shenzen this morning was something remarkable. : The "rule of threes" is a good guide to long we can live without air, water and food (roughly 3 minutes, 3 days and 3 weeks, respectively). So what happened in Shenzen this morning was something remarkable. Rescuers pulled two people alive from the rubble where a mountain of construction waste crashed into the city, destroying homes and collapsing buildings. The landslide was Sunday. These were the first survivors. The news wasn't all good though: one of the men later died at a hospital. As many as 73 are still missing.Photos: Chaos and destruction This aerial photo shows the site of the landslide that hit three industrial parks in Shenzhen in south China's Guangdong province on December 21, 2015. Hide Caption 1 of 9 Photos: Chaos and destruction Rescue workers look for survivors on December 22, 2015. Hide Caption 2 of 9 Photos: Chaos and destruction Chinese rescuers work at the land slidesite. The landslide that hit southern China's Shenzhen on December 20, 2015 was China's second industrial disaster in four months. Hide Caption 3 of 9 Photos: Chaos and destruction A woman prays near a collapse building on December 21, 2015 in Shenzhen, China. Hide Caption 4 of 9 Photos: Chaos and destruction Many of the buildings at the industrial park in the city of Shenzhen were destroyed or badly damaged. Hide Caption 5 of 9 Photos: Chaos and destruction Rescuers look for survivors at the industrial park in southern China's Guangdong province on December 20. Hide Caption 6 of 9 Photos: Chaos and destruction The search through the piles of rubble was made more difficult as light faded. Hide Caption 7 of 9 Photos: Chaos and destruction The badly damaged buildings made it extremely dangerous for rescue workers. Hide Caption 8 of 9 Photos: Chaos and destruction This dramatic photo shows the scale of the landslide's destruction. Hide Caption 9 of 9MARS MISSIONMission impossible: Dear Mars, Sorry we're gonna have to bail on our trip. We were really hoping to mosey on up there in March, take some cool pix, do some science-y stuff. But we can't -- : Dear Mars, Sorry we're gonna have to bail on our trip. We were really hoping to mosey on up there in March, take some cool pix, do some science-y stuff. But we can't -- BECAUSE OF A LEAK! The lander we were gonna use has this super sensitive instrument and it needs a vacuum seal around its sensors - kind of important in your harsh Martian conditions. Well, the seal is busted. So we had to send it back to the maker. Oh well, we'll try again in 2018. Sincerely, NASA.Photos: NASA's mission to Mars and beyond Mission to Mars – Could humans walk on Mars? NASA chief scientist, Dr Ellen Stofan, wants to land people on the "Red Planet" by the mid-2030s. It's likely to be tougher than this image of researchers at the Mars Desert Research Station in Utah, sponsored by the Mars Society. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: NASA's mission to Mars and beyond NASA's chief scientist – "It's part of the human character to want to know what's over the next hill, to want to know what's beyond," said Stofan (pictured). "It's that curiosity and desire to find out. NASA and other space agencies around the world enable that." Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: NASA's mission to Mars and beyond Rosetta Mission – Her comments come as the European Space Agency landed a probe on a comet. NASA's jet propulsion lab also played a role in the Rosetta Mission, which hopes to unlock the secrets of our universe. "That comet is the most bizarre, wonderful thing I have ever seen," said Stofan. "No one has ever gotten data like Rosetta has gotten. No one has ever been able to land on a comet the way Philae just did." Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: NASA's mission to Mars and beyond Mars Rover – It wouldn't be the first time NASA has landed on Mars -- albeit without humans on board. Here, the rover 'Spirit' sends images of the "Red Planet" back to Earth in 2004. The mission lasted until 2010. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: NASA's mission to Mars and beyond Challenging times – Sadly, among NASA's triumphs have been tragedies. In 1986, the seven members of Space Shuttle Challenger died after their rocket broke apart 73 seconds after launch. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: NASA's mission to Mars and beyond Sally Ride – In 1983 Sally Ride became the first American woman in space. And while many more women have worked at NASA since then, Dr Stofan says there's still work to do encouraging females in STEM (science, technology, math, engineering). Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: NASA's mission to Mars and beyond Moon landing – "So many people I talk to who work in technology, you ask them 'what got you interested in science?' and those from my generation say 'the Apollo landings,'" said Stofan. "I've worried for a while, what are we doing now that's inspiring that next generation of scientists?" Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: NASA's mission to Mars and beyond Walking on air – Images like this, of Edward White becoming the first American to walk in space in 1965, captured the imaginations of a nation. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: NASA's mission to Mars and beyond The Mercury 7 – Despite its name, these seven NASA astronauts didn't land on Mercury. Instead, they were part of a mission to orbit the Earth, running from 1959 to 1963. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: NASA's mission to Mars and beyond Planet of the apes – NASA's celebrity animal astronaut, Ham the Chimpanzee is greeted after landing at sea, after a flight into space in 1961. Hide Caption 10 of 10KIM DOTCOMDotcoming to America: For nearly four years, the feds have tried to drag Internet bigwig Kim Dotcom back to the U.S. He's the guy who founded Megaupload, where users swapped pirated movies and music and books and games without a care in the world. The entertainment industry wasn't amused. They suffered losses to the tune of $500 million and they wanted Dotcom to face the music. But he was sitting pretty in New Zealand. : For nearly four years, the feds have tried to drag Internet bigwig Kim Dotcom back to the U.S. He's the guy who founded Megaupload, where users swapped pirated movies and music and books and games without a care in the world. The entertainment industry wasn't amused. They suffered losses to the tune of $500 million and they wanted Dotcom to face the music. But he was sitting pretty in New Zealand. Not anymore . A judge there decided today he can be uploaded to a plane and downloaded here.Kim DotcomBREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.What rhymes with amicus brief?Guess who's filed a brief with the Supreme Court as it ponders whether to hear a First Amendment case involving a rap song? Big Boi, T.I. and Killer Mike (who prefaced it with "It probably is worth noting that he has never actually killed anyone.")Who's laughing now?Despite his epic flub, Steve Harvey will probably host the Miss Universe pageant next year and the next and the next. And make mad bank!Back from the deadThought humanity had tuberculosis, scarlet fever and scurvy licked? Think againAwkwaaard!Israel's Antiquities Authority spend 6 months trying to solve the mystery of the gold scepter. Could it be an ancient Jewish relic? Um, no. It's a New Age-y healing thingieWHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up later.Right to rallyA judge granted a restraining order against three Black Lives Matter members who were planning to demonstrate at the Mall of America this afternoon. But it only applies to the trio ; the rest of the group can (and will) protest.Receive the rebukeLakeisha Holloway appears in court this morning where a judge will read the litany of charges she faces for allegedly plowing into pedestrians in the Las Vegas Strip. Among them, murder.Number of the day: 1 in 7Number of U.S. adults who got a Starbucks gift card last Christmas. This year, the chain expects to sell even more . Because Americans like their Starbucks a latte.AND FINALLY ...When them burglars are jalapeno businessWhen three dudes burglarized the Frijoles & Frescas in Vegas, the taco joint trolled them in the most genius way possible -- by turning the surveillance footage into a hilarious ad. The tagline? "We take full responsibility for what our tacos cause people to do." Well played, gentlemen, well played.