(CNN) On the day of the massacre of 14 people at a holiday party in San Bernardino, California, Tashfeen Malik pledged her allegiance to the leader of ISIS in a Facebook post , according to three U.S. officials familiar with the shootings.SWAT teams and a bomb squad were working to clear the buildings where the shootings took place.SWAT teams and a bomb squad were working to clear the buildings where the shootings took place.Ambulances pull out of a staging area near the Inland Regional Center.Ambulances pull out of a staging area near the Inland Regional Center.Police and fire personnel are seen near the site of the shooting.Police and fire personnel are seen near the site of the shooting.People are moved away from the area by bus.People are moved away from the area by bus.People talk to police at the golf course.People talk to police at the golf course.Two women embrace at a community center where family members were gathering to pick up people from the scene.Two women embrace at a community center where family members were gathering to pick up people from the scene.People walk away from the scene. It is unclear how many people were at the facility at the time of the shooting.People walk away from the scene. It is unclear how many people were at the facility at the time of the shooting.Police escort civilians away from the site of the shooting.Police escort civilians away from the site of the shooting.Police stand guard outside of the emergency room at the Loma Linda University Medical Center, where some of the victims were being treated.Police stand guard outside of the emergency room at the Loma Linda University Medical Center, where some of the victims were being treated.Two women speak with a firefighter at a triage area near the scene.Two women speak with a firefighter at a triage area near the scene.Luis Gutierrez gets emotional as he talks about his wife who works in the facility and saw a gunman, according to Los Angeles Times photographer Marcus Yam.Luis Gutierrez gets emotional as he talks about his wife who works in the facility and saw a gunman, according to Los Angeles Times photographer Marcus Yam.A woman is comforted near the scene of the shooting.A woman is comforted near the scene of the shooting.People leave a community center after reuniting with friends and family in the aftermath of the shootings.People leave a community center after reuniting with friends and family in the aftermath of the shootings.People pray on the San Bernardino Golf Course, across the street from where the shooting took place.People pray on the San Bernardino Golf Course, across the street from where the shooting took place.The residential area was not far from where the shooting occurred.The residential area was not far from where the shooting occurred.Law enforcement officers search a residential area for suspects who fled after the shooting.Law enforcement officers search a residential area for suspects who fled after the shooting.A police officer places a marker along East San Bernardino Avenue, near where the shootout occurred.A police officer places a marker along East San Bernardino Avenue, near where the shootout occurred.Police officers stand guard as they investigate a suspicious vehicle in Redlands, California, on Wednesday, December 2, after a mass shooting in nearby San Bernardino in which 14 people died and 21 were injured. The shooting took place at the Inland Regional Center, where employees with the county health department were attending a holiday event. The two shooters -- Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik -- were fatally shot in a gun battle with police hours after the initial incident. Farook worked for the county health department.Police officers stand guard as they investigate a suspicious vehicle in Redlands, California, on Wednesday, December 2, after a mass shooting in nearby San Bernardino in which 14 people died and 21 were injured. The shooting took place at the Inland Regional Center, where employees with the county health department were attending a holiday event. The two shooters -- Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik -- were fatally shot in a gun battle with police hours after the initial incident. Farook worked for the county health department.The terror group claims Malik, 29, and her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, 28, were " supporters " of ISIS. A law enforcement official said it appeared last week's San Bernardino attack may have been inspired by ISIS, but none of the three officials said the group directed or ordered the attack.The post, declaring her loyalty to Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi, was made on an account with a different name, although officials did not explain how they knew Malik made the post.Malik and Farook carried out Wednesday's shooting at the Inland Regional Center that also injured 21 people, authorities said. They died later in a police shootout on a San Bernardino street."This is looking more and more like self-radicalization," a law enforcement official said.Mohammad Jamil, a neighbor of Malik's family in her native Pakistan, said, "We felt very sad about what Tashfeen had done." He called her actions "shameful for us all."Studies in PakistanMalik came from a family of wealthy landowners in Pakistan. She later moved to Saudi Arabia with her immediate family.She returned to Pakistan to study pharmacy in the city of Multan between 2007 and 2012, according to Bahauddin Zakariya University, the school she attended.One of Malik's professors, Dr. Syed Nisar Hussain, told CNN he didn't recall her being anymore religious than other students. Like most other young women at the school, she wore a veil over her face known as a niqab, he said."She always remained busy in studies," Hussain told CNN.One of Malik's former classmates at the university also didn't remember her being very religious."She didn't even pray five times a day," the former classmate, who declined to be identified, told CNN. The two women both lived in the same off-campus housing, she said."She was a colorful girl who spoke about boys, social networks and chatting online," she said. "She wasn't some pure girl just because she took the veil."Malik later attended the Al-Huda Institute in Multan, part of a chain of women-only religious schools in Pakistan. Al-Huda is known for its puritanical interpretation of Islam, but it isn't believed to be fundamentalist or to advocate violence.In a statement, Al-Huda said Malik briefly studied at its Multan branch between 2013 and 2014 but left without completing the diploma course."It seems that she was unable to understand the beautiful message of the Quran," the organization said, stressing that it doesn't have any links to extremist groups and aims to promote a peaceful message of Islam.'A stay-at-home mom'Malik traveled to the United States in July 2014 on what's known as a "fiancee visa." Later she became a lawful permanent resident.Mustafa Kuko, director of the Islamic Center of Riverside, said he counseled Farook as he was looking for a religious woman to marry. Farook, an American citizen who worked for the San Bernardino County health department, was a regular at the center.A photocopy of Tashfeen Malik's Pakistani national identification card.Mohammad Abuershaid, an attorney for Farook's family, told CNN the couple met via an online dating website. They first met in person when Farook traveled to Saudi Arabia in 2013 during the Hajj pilgrimage, the attorney said."She was very conservative. She was a stay-at-home mom," Abuershaid said.CNN has obtained a photocopy of Malik's Pakistani national identification card from a senior Pakistani intelligence source.The card is issued to Pakistani citizens as proof of their citizenship and legal residence in the country.This version suggests the card was issued before 2013, indicating Malik had been living in Pakistan during that time. The card shows her date of birth as July 13, 1986.Couple had 6-month-old babyFarook married Malik in a religious marital ceremony during a second trip to Saudi Arabia and then returned to the United States with his new wife. Kuko officiated the couple's U.S. marital ceremony at his mosque in 2014.The couple had a 6-month-old daughter, whom they left with a grandmother the day of the shooting.JUST WATCHED CNN analyst: 'Shocked' media allowed in shooters' home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN analyst: 'Shocked' media allowed in shooters' home 01:46Malik and Farook lived in a rented two-bedroom, two-story townhouse with their baby and Farook's mother, according to their landlord, Doyle Miller, the owner of the townhouse in Redlands, California, near San Bernardino.He said the couple answered an ad on Craigslist.No hints of extremism, family attorney says"There was nothing to show that she was extreme at all," Abuershaid told CNN. "She was a practicing Muslim, she believed in the religion and she was just doing the five prayers a day, the fasting ...," he said.There was nothing to show she was responsible for radicalizing her husband, he added.Back in Malik's former neighborhood in Karor Lal Esan, Pakistan, Jamil said, "We don't want Muslims to do such things."He added, "What Tashfeen did is not good for our country. There should be military courts for such people in Pakistan so that nobody dares to do such a bad thing in the future."Malik's uncle still lives in the Pakistani town, according to Jamil. "He is a nice religious singer known as Naat Khawan," he said. "He is well-known by all people in the area."