Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Democratic horse-thievery. Diets that don't work. And shutting down an interstate to propose. It's Wednesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door:GOP DEBATE: Was that a debate or an audition for who would be America's greatest superhero? The GOP hopefuls aired episode 5 of their reality TV show last night, and it didn't disappoint. ( Here are the five takeawaysSurprise!: Who got the most airtime? Here's a hint: Not Trump. Ted Cruz rocked the mic the longest, logging in more than 16 minutes.Pants on fire: It wouldn't be politics if you didn't bend the truth a little. Ok, a lot. But that's why you have us, America. We inspect the candidates' claims hereZingers a plenty : Bush to The Donald: "You can't insult your way to the presidency." Paul talking about (the suddenly hawkish) Chris Christie: "I think if you want World War III you got your candidate." John Kasich about Putin: "Frankly it's time that we punched the Russians in the nose." And Ted Cruz to no one in particular: "All horse thieves are Democrats, but not all Democrats are horse thieves."SCHOOL THREATSJUST WATCHED Reality Check: GOP candidates clash over terrorism Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Reality Check: GOP candidates clash over terrorism 01:16GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNThat was a squeaker: Looks like : Looks like the nation has avoided, for the umpteenth time, a government shutdown . Right in the nick of time too - we were going to run out of money at midnight. The trillion dollar bill reauthorizes a health insurance program for 9/11 first responders, overhauls the visa waiver program and doesn't block federal $$$ to Planned Parenthood. Now, the government will purr along until September when we'll be treated to this song and dance again.Government survives to live another day.PHILIP CHISMJustice, but no joy: No one wants to believe that a 14-year-old boy could have done this. Prosecutors summed up what we've all felt when we learned a young math teacher -- Colleen Ritzer -- was killed by one of her students. Yesterday, a Massachusetts jury found Philip Chism, now 16, : No one wants to believe that a 14-year-old boy could have done this. Prosecutors summed up what we've all felt when we learned a young math teacher -- Colleen Ritzer -- was killed by one of her students. Yesterday, a Massachusetts jury found Philip Chism, now 16, guilty of murder . Chism's defense team said he was responding to voices in his head. The jury didn't buy it. As for Ritzer's family? They say there's a hole in their lives, "one that, sadly, can never be replaced."JUST WATCHED Teen found guilty of first-degree murder of math teacher Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Teen found guilty of first-degree murder of math teacher 00:50FREDDIE GRAY TRIALGame changer: That's how CNN legal analyst Sunny Hostin describes the very real possibility that the first trial in the Freddie Gray saga could end in a hung jury. William Porter is the first of six cops charged in the death of Fray, who suffered a neck injury while in police custody. Jurors told the judge yesterday : That's how CNN legal analyst Sunny Hostin describes the very real possibility that the first trial in the Freddie Gray saga could end in a hung jury. William Porter is the first of six cops charged in the death of Fray, who suffered a neck injury while in police custody. Jurors told the judge yesterday they were deadlocked . The judge told them to go back and try again today. A hung jury could force a change of venue and have a domino effect on the trials of the other five cops.JUST WATCHED Officers on trial for Freddie Gray's death Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Officers on trial for Freddie Gray's death 01:59BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote of the day: "Love makes you do stupid things and I wanted to do something big for my girl"-- Vidal Valladares, who shut down one of the country's busiest freeways to propose to his girlfriend - because that's her favorite view of the city. #oofVacation have to get awayEnding the year without taking all your paid time off? Not if you're at these companies where taking vacation days is mandatory.We are the championsWill work for food ... not reallyYou didn't leave Mike Pothoff a choice, did you, panhandling boys? He offered you a job - twice. You turned him down. Payback's a you-know-what.After the party, it's the hotel lobbySomebody tell this guy there are other ways to complain about a hotel stay than drive a truck through the building . A strongly-worded email, perhaps?Oh, why even bother?Number of the day: 1 millisecondHow much the Earth's rotation is slowing each day . Climate change, I tell you - it's a drag.AND FINALLY ...When you ask Luna the lab who her best friend is, she responds by putting her paw around her buddy. Because labs are THE BEST DOGS EVER!