Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) A grand jury says "no." Lindsey Graham says "No more." And a group of Muslims says "No way." It's Tuesday, and here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door:SANDRA BLAND: Sandra Bland's death was controversial, sparking conversation (and protests) about the role of race in policing. Bland, an African-American woman, was arrested in July for allegedly failing to use her turn signal. Three days later, she was dead in her jail cell. Did she hang herself with a plastic bag? Her family and others have never believed that. Now they have to deal with something else: a grand jury won't return indictments related to her death, though it will reconvene in January to consider other charges. Reaction was swift: Bernie Sanders said she'd be alive if she had been a white woman.PEDESTRIANS HIT: Why was Lakeisha Holloway trying to sleep in her car Sunday night before police say she intentionally plowed it through a sidewalk full of people on the Las Vegas Strip? Police will try to add that piece to this deadly puzzle today. One person was killed and dozens injured in the incident. Holloway -- who's from the Portland, Oregon, area -- faces a murder charge, among other things.AFGHANISTANAmericans killed: It was a deadly two days for Americans in Afghanistan. On Monday, : It was a deadly two days for Americans in Afghanistan. On Monday, six U.S. troops were killed in a suicide motorcycle bomb attack in Bagram. Their names haven't been released, but we do know one of them was a New York City detective. On Sunday, an American woman was shot and killed while leaving a gym in Kabul. A mullah was arrested in that case.JUST WATCHED 6 U.S. troops killed in sophisticated suicide bombing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 6 U.S. troops killed in sophisticated suicide bombing 04:51CAMPAIGN 2016Lindsey's out; who's next?: The undercard of these dual GOP debates just got a lot less interesting. South Carolina Sen. : The undercard of these dual GOP debates just got a lot less interesting. South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham dropped out of the presidential race yesterday, after he never climbed out of the single digits in the polls. All eyes are on the next potential dropout -- that's probably you, John Kasich -- as the GOP prays that a smaller field of candidates will have a better shot at stopping the Trump train. Speaking of The Donald, he gets his own special section in Jake Tapper's list of 2015's biggest campaign whoppersJUST WATCHED U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham suspends presidential campaign Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham suspends presidential campaign 00:21KENYA'Leave them alone': Al-Shabaab militants in Kenya have a tried and terrifying M.O.: Ambush a bus; find Christians; kill them. But not yesterday, when militants raided a bus headed for the Kenyan capital of Nairobi. A group of Kenyan Muslims, mostly women, stuck together and : Al-Shabaab militants in Kenya have a tried and terrifying M.O.: Ambush a bus; find Christians; kill them. But not yesterday, when militants raided a bus headed for the Kenyan capital of Nairobi. A group of Kenyan Muslims, mostly women, stuck together and shielded the Christian passengers . They told the militants they were prepared to die together.JUST WATCHED Muslims shield Christians during bus attack in Kenya Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Muslims shield Christians during bus attack in Kenya 02:59BUT WAIT, THERE'S MORE...BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quote(s) of the day"I hate some of these people, I hate 'em. I would never kill them. I would never do that""But she was going to beat (Obama). She was favored to win, and she got schlonged; she lost"... and then getting downright vulgar to taunt Hillary Clinton on her 2008 primary loss to Barack Obama.Keeping up with the KardashianKim. Kim. Kim. How many times are you going to break the Internet? Fans shut down Apple's app store yesterday, trying to download her new emoji app , named -- what else? -- Kimoji.Simply redRed-headed neo-Nazi Mark Colborne is headed to the slammer for his plot to kill Prince Charles and Prince William. Why? He wants a ginger monarch (i.e., Prince Harry) on the throne.A saucy SantaSpoiler alert: Santa Claus is real . He lives in Long Island and runs a BBQ shack.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's coming up later.Court dateArraignment starts this morning in the court-martial of U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, accused of desertion and endangering the lives of fellow soldiers. He spent years in Taliban hands before he was swapped for five Taliban detainees last year.After the mistrialWill Baltimore police Officer William Porter be tried again in the Freddie Gray saga after last week's mistrial? There's a court hearing this morning that will deal with that.Number of the day$2.4 billionThat's the jackpot in today's "El Gordo" lottery -- it means "the Fat One" in English -- which is run out of Spain, but anyone in the world can buy a ticket online.AND FINALLY ...Star Wars feverHad enough of "Star Wars"? Of course not! Here are the casts from the first six movies singing the Bee Gees' "Stayin' Alive," via the magic of editing.