(CNN) When Karen Garsee picked her 5-year-old daughter up from kindergarten in September, she wasn't prepared for what Kaylee had to say.The kids at school wouldn't play with me today.Why?Because I'm brown.Uproar broke out when White Pride Radio put up a billboard reading, "It's NOT racist to love your people" in Harrison, Arkansas. Thomas Robb, the national director of Knights of the KKK, said there was no racist intent with the billboard. "If anybody sees racism in that billboard, then they themselves are racist," Robb told CNN in January.The University of Oklahoma severed ties with the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity in March. A video anonymously sent to the school's newspaper on March 7 showed the fraternity chanting, "There will never be a ni**** SAE. You can hang him from a tree, but he can never sign with me." Two members who were leading the chant were expelled. "The song is horrific and does not at all reflect our values as an organization," said Blaine Ayers, executive director of SAE.The University of Oklahoma severed ties with the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity in March. A video anonymously sent to the school's newspaper on March 7 showed the fraternity chanting, "There will never be a ni**** SAE. You can hang him from a tree, but he can never sign with me." Two members who were leading the chant were expelled. "The song is horrific and does not at all reflect our values as an organization," said Blaine Ayers, executive director of SAE.Thousands of people marked the 50th anniversary of "Bloody Sunday" in Selma, Alabama. President Obama made a rousing speech on racial progress in a diverse country. "Our march is not yet finished. But we are getting closer," he said. The violent confrontation with police and state troops on the Edmund Pettus Bridge on March 7, 1965, marked a pivotal point in the Civil Rights Movement.Thousands of people marked the 50th anniversary of "Bloody Sunday" in Selma, Alabama. President Obama made a rousing speech on racial progress in a diverse country. "Our march is not yet finished. But we are getting closer," he said. The violent confrontation with police and state troops on the Edmund Pettus Bridge on March 7, 1965, marked a pivotal point in the Civil Rights Movement.In March, Starbucks received mix responses to its "Race Together" campaign. The company ran full-page ads in The New York Times and USA Today announcing the initiative. Starbucks held open forums for workers to talk about race, and baristas in cities where forums were held began writing the slogan on customers' cups, aiming to spark a dialogue.In March, Starbucks received mix responses to its "Race Together" campaign. The company ran full-page ads in The New York Times and USA Today announcing the initiative. Starbucks held open forums for workers to talk about race, and baristas in cities where forums were held began writing the slogan on customers' cups, aiming to spark a dialogue.On April 1, a noose was found hanging from a tree at Duke University. Social media pictures spread quickly, causing outrage on campus. Later that day, the Black Student Alliance hosted a march across campus. Hundreds of students of all races marched, chanting, "We are not afraid. We stand together."On April 1, a noose was found hanging from a tree at Duke University. Social media pictures spread quickly, causing outrage on campus. Later that day, the Black Student Alliance hosted a march across campus. Hundreds of students of all races marched, chanting, "We are not afraid. We stand together."While Mindy Kaling was working on her Fox sitcom, "The Mindy Project," her brother, Vijay Chokal-Ingam, admitted he pretended to be black to get into medical school. The revelation came in April as Chokal-Ingam, who is of Indian descent, was pitching a book about his experiences as a "hard-partying college frat boy who discovered the seriousness and complexity of America's racial problems while posing as a black man."North Charleston police officer Michael Slager was fired from his job and then charged with murder in the shooting of 50-year-old Walter Scott . Slager pulled over Scott on April 4, reportedly for a broken brake light. Scott was later shot in the back by Slager as he was running away. Scott was black and Slager is white. A bystander recorded the shooting, and the graphic footage sparked outrage and reignited a national conversation around race and policing. Slager's attorney has said that there was a violent struggle before the officer opened fire, that his client plans to plead not guilty and that race has nothing to do with the case. Prosecutors say Slager showed malice of forethought and "executed" Scott. The family of Scott and the city of North Charleston have reached a $6.5 million settlement.Freddie Gray died on April 19 after allegedly suffering a devastating spinal injury while in police custody. Six Baltimore police officers have been indicted on charges connected with the African-American man's death. All have pleaded not guilty. Activists have claimed race played a role in Gray's arrest and the way officers treated him . Protests and riots broke out in Baltimore on the day of Gray's funeral.Loretta Lynch was sworn in as the U.S. attorney general on April 27. The nomination of Lynch, the country's first African-American woman to serve in the role, was held up more than five months over politicking in the Senate. Democrats claimed the voting delay was racially motivated, despite GOP protestations otherwise.Fury erupted in May over incoming Boston University sociology and African-American studies professor Saida Grundy's tweets about white men, race and slavery. Her personal Twitter account was made private, but the Boston Globe reported some of the tweets: "why is white america so reluctant to identify white college males as a problem population?" and "every MLK week i commit myself to not spending a dime in white-owned businesses. and every year i find it nearly impossible." A few days after the debate went into overdrive, Grundy made a statement to the Boston Globe."I regret that my personal passion about issues surrounding these events led me to speak about them indelicately," she said.U.S. Rep. Loretta Sanchez apologized on May 17 for an ethnically touchy gaffe that was caught on cell phone video. Sanchez was ad-libbing at a California Democratic Party convention when she made a stereotypical Native American "war cry." "I'm going to his office, thinkin' that I'm gonna go meet with woo-woo-woo-woo, right? 'Cause he said 'Indian-American,'" she said, using the gesture to try to discern between Indian-Americans -- with ancestry from India's subcontinent -- and Native Americans. Many in the audience at the Indian-American caucus reacted with silence.Officer Eric Casebolt resigned on June 9, days after a YouTube video showing his response to reports of fighting at a McKinney, Texas, pool party sparked swift allegations of racism. Critics decried the white officer for cursing at several black teenagers, unholstering and waving his gun at boys and throwing a 14-year-old girl to the ground, his knees pressed down on her back. Casebolt's attorney said race had nothing to do with how the officer responded.Edgar Antillon, co-owner of Rubbin' Buttz BBQ and Country Cafe in Milliken, Colorado, drew criticism for offering a " White Appreciation Day " discount on June 11. What started as a joke about how there's no holiday that celebrates "the white community" was been misinterpreted as a racially charged promotion, Antillon said.Rachel Dolezal stepped down as the head of the Spokane chapter of the NAACP on June 15 amid allegations she lied about her race. Dolezal, is white, but has said she identifies as black. The idea someone might misrepresent themselves by claiming they were black, then earn a leadership position in one of the nation's top advocacy groups for African-Americans, stirred a social media firestorm when the news broke.After Donald Trump described some Mexicans who come to the United States illegally as "killers" and "rapists" in June, Univision, NBC and Macy's later cut ties with the Republican presidential candidate. Jorge Ramos , a prominent Univision host, called Trump's remarks "absurd" and "prejudiced." Trump has stood by his comments and continued his push for a crackdown on illegal immigration.Nine people died when a gunman opened fire on a Bible study at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, on June 17. A law enforcement official said witnesses told authorities the gunman stood up and said he was there "to shoot black people." Dylann Roof, 21, pleaded not guilty to 33 federal charges, including federal hate crime and firearms charges.During an interview released on June 22, Obama dropped the N-word . Obama used the word during an interview for the podcast "WTF with Marc Maron" to make the point that racism is still a problem in our society.PBS said on June 24 that it would postpone the third season of "Finding Your Roots" after an internal review that concluded actor Ben Affleck improperly influenced the show to omit the fact that his ancestors owned slaves . The investigation stemmed from reports in April that Affleck had asked the show to edit out the fact that his family history involved slave ownership. Affleck admitted on Facebook to making the request soon after the controversy spilled into the public.In June, multiple fires at predominantly African-American churches in several Southern states were in the spotlight. The fires came in the wake of the massacre at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston , South Carolina, and raised speculation about arson and hate crimes.After flying for 54 years on South Carolina's Capitol grounds, it took only a moment to take down the Confederate flag on July 10, 2015. Years of deep-rooted controversy over the banner gained steam after the June massacre of nine black churchgoers in Charleston. "This flag, while an integral part of our past, does not represent the future of our great state," Gov. Nikki Haley said as she called for its removal.Sandra Bland died at Waller County Jail in Texas on July 13, three days after being arrested for allegedly making an improper lane change. During the traffic stop, authorities say she was belligerent. Authorities say there was no foul play involved in her death. They say Bland hanged herself with a trash bag from a metal barrier that separated the bathroom from the rest of her cell. Her family has said the idea that she committed suicide is unthinkable. Before her death, Bland spoke out frequently on social media about racism and police brutality.Officer Ray Tensing fatally shot Samuel Dubose , 43, on July 19 after a struggle at a traffic stop over a missing license tag, Cincinnati police said. Dubose was driving away when Tensing shot him in the head, police said. Tensing said he feared for his life . However, prosecutors said DuBose was not acting aggressively. The case quickly drew attention from "Black Lives Matter" protesters, who accused the white officer of using excessive force on Dubose, who was black. Tensing, who's been charged with murder and voluntary manslaughter, has pleaded not guilty.On July 23, the WWE terminated its contract with legendary wrestler Hulk Hogan after the National Enquirer released a transcript of statements he made that included racial slurs. The remarks were recorded in an "unauthorized sex tape," according to the Enquirer, and included the N-word in reference to the dating life of his daughter, Brooke. Hogan apologized for the offensive language.In September, 14-year-old Ahmed Mohamed was arrested for making what appeared to be a bomb. The "bomb" was actually a clock he had made on his own. "I built a clock to impress my teacher but when I showed it to her, she thought it was a threat to her," Ahmed said. Outrage over the incident lit up social media as #IStandWithAhmed started trending worldwide on Twitter. Ahmed got an invitation to the White House after the incident.Tim Wolfe, president of the University of Missouri, resigned from his post on November 9, 2015, amid a controversy regarding race relations at the school. Wolfe and the rest of the school's administration had been accused of taking little to no action after several racial incidents on campus. A day before the resignation, black players on the school's football team said they would essentially go on strike until Wolfe resigned or was fired.Harvard University police said they were investigating a possible hate crime at the law school after someone covered portraits of black faculty members in tape, according to university officials. Some photographs were defaced with strips of black tape and discovered on November 19. Take a look at other events that brought discussions of race relations and identity to the forefront in 2015.Those words struck Garsee right in the heart. Being white, she didn't know what she could say to make her daughter feel better. At that moment, they simply embraced."I didn't think kids at that age really thought about other kids being different," Garsee says.That wouldn't be the last time the schoolchildren didn't want to play with Kaylee."We live in the South and racism is loud and it's still out there," Garsee says.A CNN/Kaiser Family Foundation Poll on race found that about half (49%) of Americans say racism is a big problem in our society. Compare that to 2011 when 28% said racism was a big problem. And in 1995, shortly after the O.J. Simpson trial and a couple of years after the race riots in Los Angeles, 41% of people said racism was a big societal problem.When you don't know what to tell your childThere aren't a lot of people who look like Kaylee in Georgetown, Texas. Her mother, Karen Garsee, is white and her father, Chris Garsee, is Nigerian, giving the kindergartner curly brown hair, warm caramel-colored skin and deep brown eyes."Now that she started school, Kaylee is seeing that she's different," Garsee says. Kaylee is the only one in her class who isn't white.Both Karen and Chris Garsee spent their high school years in the same town they live in now, and Karen Garsee says she hasn't noticed a lot of change in the city's diversity. In 2010, African-Americans and blacks make up about 4% of Georgetown's population, according to the United States CensusKaylee poses for the camera at Moody Gardens in Galveston, Texas.Kaylee is starting to point out the differences she's seeing between her and other people.Mom you're white. But me and Daddy are brown.I know, but that's OK. If a rainbow was one color, it wouldn't be beautiful."I'm trying to teach her how to respond now because she's going to live through this for the rest of her life," Garsee says.Garsee, a banker, says she sees racism often. She says she has seen parents pull their kids away from Kaylee when they're at the park, and she believes police have stopped Garsee and her husband in the past because he's black."There are places in Texas I don't take Chris because I fear for his life," Garsee says.Chris and Karen Garsee live in Georgetown, Texas.Garsee doesn't want Kaylee to live with that kind of fear. She reminds her daughter every day that it's OK to be different, even if the kids at school don't want to play."I tell her she's beautiful the way she is. But sometimes, I have no words. If it was me, I wouldn't know how to deal with that," she says.She's hoping to have more children with Chris so they can give Kaylee some siblings whom she can relate to."I think having siblings that are just like you, people who share the same experiences and look like you, I think that makes it a bit easier," Garsee says."Especially for the days when Kaylee feels so different -- like an outcast."When you feel unwelcomeGrowing up in a small Eskimo village in Alaska, Daniel Martinez-Vlasoff spent his childhood living off the land, hunting for seal meat and gathering wild berries. He did what all the other indigenous kids in his village would do, except he didn't look like any of them.He stood out with his pale skin and green eyes, a blend of his parents' ethnic backgrounds, with his mother being Spanish and his father being Alutiiq, an indigenous Eskimo group from the southern coast of Alaska."People always pointed out that I looked different, and it made me feel awkward," the 33-year-old IT administrator says.His wife Natalie, an engineer, has a similar story of growing up in a mixed household. Being African-American, Mexican and Hawaiian, she felt like an outsider throughout much of her teenage years."I felt really lonely, even through college. People tended to hang out with their own race," she says.The CNN/KFF poll shows that 68% of white Americans between 18 and 34 years old say the people they socialize with are all or mostly all the same race as them. Among Hispanics, its 37%, and among blacks, 36%.Natalie and her husband are raising their four children in Los Angeles, and they say they still experience prejudice when they have family outings.People tend to come up to them and try to guess their race, she says.Natalie photographs the family and Daniel's parents taking a tour of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.You guys must be Filipino?We're mixed.Are you Indian?Strangers also tend to ignore Natalie and Daniel Martinez-Vlasoff when they try to explain their ethnic background, she says. The couple say they rarely see mixed families in their community, which is majority Hispanic."We tried to go to community events and we felt like we weren't really welcomed," Natalie Martinez-Vlasoff says.She remembers trying to sign her children up for a few classes at a recreation center in Los Angeles and one of the administrators telling her she couldn't. She thought at the time it was because her family was mixed."We're in an area where it feels like [there's] a history of families who don't date outside their own race," Natalie says.She doesn't believe mixed and biracial families are as prevalent as people think they are."I think it's traditional that people marry within their own culture and race. Outside our peers, I don't see families like us," she says.About 10% of U.S. families are interracial, according to the 2010 U.S. Census . The data show that's a 28% increase from 2000.Daniel Martinez-Vlasoff says he thinks families are starting to change and become more diverse, but it's happening slowly. For now, the pair are thinking about where to begin when it comes to the race issue with their little kids."We haven't addressed the racism they will face. We haven't talked about it even. But we're starting," Natalie Martinez-Vlasoff says.When your friends don't look like youSometimes at outings, Kristin Njimegni overhears people talking about her husband.I wonder how he even got all the way up here?She reminds herself that those comments aren't always malicious, because her husband, Eric, is from Cameroon and they live in Keewatin, Minnesota, a town with about a thousand people.But it makes her feel like even in this small town, Eric Njimegni looks different.In 2010, there were about five black people in Keewatin, according to the U.S. CensusThe couple has been together since 2012, when Kristin Njimegni was teaching in Moscow. The interracial pair endured jeers and insults from some Russians while they were taking the train or simply going shopping, Kristin Njimegni says. It became a daily occurrence.When they came back to America and settled in Minnesota they didn't feel the same racial tension they felt while abroad, the schoolteacher says.The CNN/KFF poll found that 64% of Americans believe racial tensions in the United States have increased in 10 years, while a quarter say tensions have stayed the same. And assessing their own communities, fewer see racial tensions on the rise: 23% say racial tensions have grown in their community, 18% that they've declined and 57% say they have stayed about the same in the last decade.Njimegni is optimistic people are becoming more open to diversity and mixed-race marriages with the changes she's seeing in the way television shows are casting actors and in cereal advertisementsEric and Kristin Njimegni met in Moscow while studying and working and now live in Keewatin, Minnesota."Even in this tiny town of a thousand I've seen interracial couples," the 28-year-old says.Although she still believes racism is a big problem in America, she's hopeful for the future. She and Eric are trying to have their first child now."Our race doesn't define our relationship, but it's a huge part of it," she says. "I want to have a family where you don't label anything."The CNN/Kaiser Family Foundation poll was conducted August 25-October 3, 2015, among a random national sample of 1,951 adults, including 501 black and 500 Hispanic respondents. Results for all groups have been adjusted to reflect their actual national distribution. Interviews were conducted on conventional telephones and cellphones, in English and Spanish, by SSRS of Media, Pennsylvania. This poll was jointly developed and analyzed by CNN and staff at the Kaiser Family Foundation. Results for the full sample have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points; for results based on African-Americans or Hispanics, it is plus or minus 6 percentage points.