(CNN) There was a voice in his head, a gun in his hand, and John Lennon's wife right in front of him. Mark David Chapman knew exactly what he was doing when he decided to take the life of one of the world's most beloved musicians."When the car pulled up and Yoko got out, something in the back of my mind was going 'Do it, do it, do it,'" he said, recalling the night of December 8, 1980."I stepped off the curb, walked, turned, I took the gun and just boom, boom, boom, boom, boom."Chapman was speaking with reporter Jim Gaines in a visiting room at Attica Correctional Facility in upstate New York, three years after he killed Lennon. After initially refusing interview requests, he had finally agreed to talk.The convicted killer sat with Gaines for hundreds of hours of exclusive taped conversations which have been obtained by CNN.For Gaines, it was personal interest that compelled him to delve into the mystery of why Chapman killed Lennon.John Lennon was murdered, and he was important to me. I think he was important to everybody in my generation," he said.For Chapman, it was the passage of time that he said allowed him to come to terms with his actions."I have the strength to face the murder now," he explained to Gaines.JUST WATCHED 1980: Mourning John Lennon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 1980: Mourning John Lennon 01:29These exchanges produced a comprehensive, first-person account of Chapman's life prior to the murder, his motivation for targeting Lennon, and how he felt about it all after time spent in prison.'I always wanted to be a Beatle'To the surprise of many, including Gaines, Chapman said that throughout his childhood in Decatur, Georgia, he was a Beatles fan."I always wanted to be a Beatle," he told Gaines. "I'd always think, man, what would it be like to be a Beatle?"Chapman specifically idolized Lennon. Recalling a particularly intense acid trip, he told a friend he thought he had become the former Beatle. However, his affection for Lennon eventually waned.JUST WATCHED Friend opens up about John Lennon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Friend opens up about John Lennon 20:28High school friend Miles McManus said Chapman became angry at Lennon when he discovered he had proclaimed the Beatles "more popular than Jesus" in a 1966 interview with the London Evening Standard. Chapman, a devout Christian, destroyed Beatles record albums and "even said he changed the words to 'Imagine' to 'Imagine if John were dead,'" McManus recalled.After graduating from high school and working at a YMCA, Chapman grew depressed and decided to move to Hawaii. Shortly after he arrived in 1977, a failed suicide attempt landed him at the Castle Medical Center in Honolulu. "I just gave up," Chapman said.After his hospitalization, he began working at the center and met Gloria Abe, a hospital volunteer and travel agent who helped him to plan a trip around the world. When he returned to Hawaii, the two began dating and married in June 1979.Despite the appearance of happiness and stability, Chapman said he was unable to escape his demons."He kept talking about divorce," Gloria Abe Chapman revealed to Gaines during a 1985 interview. She described instances of abuse throughout the short time they lived together in Hawaii.Chapman began working as a security guard for a local condominium and frequenting the local library, where he came across two books that would alter the course of his life.JUST WATCHED The murder of John Lennon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The murder of John Lennon 00:30After reading Anthony Fawcett's "John Lennon: One Day at a Time," his "10-year obsession with The Beatles congealed into a hatred of John Lennon in particular," Gaines explained.But the book that truly influenced him was "The Catcher in the Rye" by J.D Salinger, and its protagonist, Holden Caulfield. "I really identified with him," he told Gaines, "his plight, his loneliness, his alienation from society."Eventually, the lines between his own life and Caulfield's began to blur. Chapman developed a deep-seated hatred of all things fake and, spurred by that and Fawcett's book, began to direct his rage toward Lennon -- "a poser," Gaines explained, who "espoused virtues and ideals that he didn't practice."Chapman soon decided that it was up to him to rid the world of Lennon.'I couldn't stop'Throughout the fall of 1980, as Chapman began to fixate on murdering Lennon, he deteriorated. Since childhood, whenever Chapman became unable to function, he'd "delegate his insanity" to a group inside his head that he called "the little people," according to Gaines, and described as "powerful" and "evil." It was also during this time, Gaines recounted, that Chapman began to "pray to Satan to give him the strength to murder John Lennon."JUST WATCHED Letters from Lennon's killer revealed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Letters from Lennon's killer revealed 04:09By the end of October, Chapman decided that he was ready. He quit his job as a security guard, signing out as John Lennon on his final day. He flew to New York City on October 29, 1980, with a .38-caliber gun.However, Lennon was not his only target. He also contemplated killing Johnny Carson, Elizabeth Taylor and George C. Scott, according to the assistant district attorney who later prosecuted him. Eventually, when he realized that he could not legally obtain ammunition in New York, he flew to Atlanta to meet up with an old police officer friend who provided him with deadly hollow point bullets.Once he was back in New York, Chapman began to have second thoughts. After seeing a screening of the film "Ordinary People," he called his wife in Hawaii.He told her he was coming home, and he confessed to what he had planned to do.Photos: The Beatles: Myths and misconceptions Photos: The Beatles: Myths and misconceptionsOver the years, the facts of the Beatles' story have sometimes been shoved out of the way by half-truths, misconceptions and outright fiction. Here are a few details you might have heard, with the true story provided by The Beatles arrived in the U.S. 50 years ago and embarked on a history-making path of pop culture dominance. "The Sixties: The British Invasion" looks at John, Paul, George and Ringo and how the Fab Four's influence persists.Over the years, the facts of the Beatles' story have sometimes been shoved out of the way by half-truths, misconceptions and outright fiction. Here are a few details you might have heard, with the true story provided by Mark Lewisohn's "Tune In" and others. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: The Beatles: Myths and misconceptions John Lennon once said that Ringo Starr not only wasn't the best drummer in rock, he wasn't the best drummer in the Beatles. Biographer Mark Lewisohn says this is a line from a TV comedy sketch in the 1980s -- after Lennon died. The Beatles actually defended Ringo strongly over the years. Biographer Mark Lewisohn says this is a line from a TV comedy sketch in the 1980s -- after Lennon died. The Beatles actually defended Ringo strongly over the years. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: The Beatles: Myths and misconceptions The Beatles were against wearing suits. Again, not true, says Lewisohn. Though Lennon later trashed the neat look as a sellout demanded by manager Brian Epstein, in the early '60s they were eager for a change. "I just saw it as playing a game," said Harrison. "I'll wear a f****** balloon if somebody's going to pay me!" said Lennon. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: The Beatles: Myths and misconceptions They grew up poor. Not really. Harrison's and McCartney's families were working class, and Lennon's childhood included trips to an upscale relative's house in Scotland. Only Starr, who was also sickly, grew up in poverty, in the blighted Dingle neighborhood. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: The Beatles: Myths and misconceptions They booted drummer Pete Best out of jealousy. Producer George Martin wasn't impressed by Best (second from left), and McCartney has said he "was holding us back." The rest of the Beatles were equally unsentimental. Ringo Starr, who had played with the Beatles occasionally, was a far better drummer -- and when he joined, "from that moment on, it gelled," said Harrison. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: The Beatles: Myths and misconceptions Stu Sutcliffe was a terrible bassist. Though Sutcliffe (standing, third from left) was no McCartney, he went from complete neophyte to solid rhythm player during the band's Hamburg days. He left the job because he wanted to pursue his painting, and McCartney remembers being "lumbered with" the position as new bassist. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: The Beatles: Myths and misconceptions John Lennon saw his mother, Julia, killed in front of him. Julia Dykins, as she was known after her marriage to Bobby Dykins, died on July 15, 1958. After a chat with her sister, John's Aunt Mimi, she went to catch a bus and was hit by a car crossing Menlove Avenue. John found out about her death later that day. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: The Beatles: Myths and misconceptions The Beatles made their U.S. television debut on "The Ed Sullivan Show," February 9, 1964. It was the band's first U.S. television performance, but they'd already been seen on American TV during a CBS News segment in December, 1963. Pieces from the segment also ran on Jack Paar's talk show in January 1964. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: The Beatles: Myths and misconceptions The title "Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds" is a reference to LSD. Though its imagery of "plasticine porters" and "kaleidoscope eyes" owes a lot to drugs (as well as John Lennon's fondness for Lewis Carroll-esque absurdity), the song was inspired by a drawing made by Lennon's son, Julian. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: The Beatles: Myths and misconceptions "Paul is dead." An elaborate theory -- perhaps best explained by An elaborate theory -- perhaps best explained by Joel Glazier in a 1979 article for the Beatles fanzine "Strawberry Fields Forever" -- maintains that Paul McCartney (here with Brian Epstein) died in 1966 and was replaced by a talented double. (There are dozens of clues for you all -- especially on the White Album.) Though it's fascinating to ponder all the backwards sounds and colorful images, this theory says more about our abilities to find patterns than it does about McCartney's fate. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: The Beatles: Myths and misconceptions The Beatles performed on Johnny Carson's "Tonight Show." Lennon and McCartney Lennon and McCartney did visit "Tonight" on May 14, 1968 , but they didn't perform -- and the guest host for the evening was Joe Garagiola. Ed McMahon was around, though. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: The Beatles: Myths and misconceptions Yoko Ono broke up the Beatles. Oh, if only Yoko hadn't stolen John away from the group, they would have stayed together! Right. Actually, the Beatles were already fragmenting -- Ringo temporarily left during the making of the White Album, and George walked out during the "Get Back" sessions -- and financial issues were getting in the way of the music. Lennon was ready for something new, but everybody was tired. Hide Caption 12 of 12Gloria Chapman, whom Gaines described as a "very devoted person," did nothing with the information.Later, Mark Chapman admitted to Gaines that in a way, he blamed her for not stopping him."I still have deep-seated resentment that she didn't go to somebody, even the police, and say, 'Look, my husband bought a gun, and he said he was going to kill John Lennon.'"Gloria Chapman said she did not alert authorities because Mark had agreed to seek counseling.However, after a few weeks in Hawaii, Chapman decided it was time to return to New York."Once the plan was in gear, I couldn't stop it," he told Gaines. He flew back the first weekend in December, armed and ready to commit murder.'I was just so excited to see him'After spending two days waiting on the sidewalk outside Lennon's apartment, Chapman was finally face to face with his childhood idol. At approximately 5 p.m. on December 8, while Lennon was en route to a recording studio for what would be his final session, Chapman asked him to autograph a copy of his latest album, "Double Fantasy."Photos: The art of John Lennon Photos: The art of John Lennon Though he will always remain best known as a musician, John Lennon never tried to hide his fondness for the visual arts. He'd attended art college in Liverpool, after all, and he made sketches and caricatures at every opportunity. This 1977 work, "Imagine Peace," captures him as a contented family man with wife Yoko Ono and son Sean. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon From the Hamburg days of the early '60s, when Astrid Kirchherr took some notable portraits of the Beatles, Lennon was one of the most photographed people in the world. This portrait of him dates to the late 1970s. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon Nishi F. Saimaru, who was a personal assistant and photographer for the Lennons from 1976 to 1979, took this portrait of Lennon around 1977. Lennon described it as his favorite. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon After Sean was born in 1975, Lennon became a househusband, doting on his young son. "I've attended every meal, and how he sleeps, and the fact he swims like a fish because I took him to the ocean," he said. "I'm proud of all those things." This 1978 work is called "Family of Peace." Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon Lennon continued doing whimsical sketches, including one of two people kissing on television. "Love is the answer," it says, quoting a line from the song "Mind Games." The sketch, in black and white, originally appeared in his 1964 book, "In His Own Write." Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon John and Yoko moved to New York in 1971, first living in Greenwich Village, later in the Dakota on Central Park West. Food was a favorite topic: John loved baking bread, and on tapes of the "Double Fantasy" sessions, can be frequently heard ordering sushi. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon This sketch, of which there are many variations, has come to be known simply as "Self-Portrait." It's Lennon at his most familiar, with glasses, his distinctive beaked nose, longish hair and an impish smile. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon Lennon titled this 1978 work "A Happy Life." Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon John met Yoko in November 1966 at the Indica, a London gallery where Ono was exhibiting her work. Lennon was particularly impressed by a piece in which the visitor climbed a ladder and looked through a magnifying glass at a painting. On it was a word in tiny letters: "Yes." "So it was positive. I felt relieved," Lennon recalled later. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon Another family sketch from the late '70s. "John was a great daddy," Yoko recalled. "He tried to do everything so right." Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon John and Yoko got married on March 20, 1969. Two months later, they spent a honeymoon week in Montreal doing a "bed-in" for peace. While receiving visitors at the hotel, Lennon started putting his feelings into words. The lyrics, listed above, became "Give Peace a Chance." The song was recorded live in the Montreal hotel room on June 1, 1969. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon Lennon's sketches of people were often basic, nothing more than a head and a blobby body. Still, the message got across, as with this sketch to "turn left and make peace." Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon Some sketches are like single-panel cartoons, complete with punch line. In this one, Lennon faces a phone, "willing it to ring." Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon This work, called "On Cloud 9," shows John and Yoko in the sky. Naturally, he hasn't forgotten his trusty guitar. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon "Perhaps life's karmic wheel had bent his spokes," notes this sketch. "Surrealism had a great effect on me because then I realized that the imagery in my mind wasn't insanity. Surrealism to me is my reality," Lennon once said. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon Lennon loved New York, not least because he could wander freely around stores and through Central Park. If people accosted him, it was usually for a handshake or an autograph. Still, there were always folks who described themselves as one of his "biggest fans." Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon During Lennon and Ono's 1969 honeymoon, the couple visited Amsterdam, Vienna and Paris, where this sketch was done. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: The art of John Lennon Lennon's song "Happy Xmas (War Is Over)" has been a holiday staple since 1971. The song's peace-loving message is as timeless as this sketch of a tree surrounded by visitors: "War is over if you want it." Hide Caption 18 of 18"Mark, how did that feel?" Gaines asked during a taped conversation."I was just so excited to see him," Chapman replied. In that moment, "he was just a fan," Gaines later explained.After their initial encounter, Chapman lingered outside until Lennon returned with his wife, Yoko Ono, around 10:30 p.m.Then, he fired five shots, hitting Lennon in the back four times."I was frozen, standing there frozen and the gun was hanging at my side, still in my hand," Chapman recalled.Doorman Jose Perdomo quickly sprang into action.Photos: The Looks of Lennon Photos: The Looks of Lennon "Strawberry Fields Forever." The young John as a schoolboy, circa 1948, with the cap, tie and blazer; the uniform of a bygone age. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: The Looks of Lennon "Twist and Shout." At the Cavern Club, Liverpool, Lennon swaggers in leathers that would make Motorhead frontman Lemmy blush. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: The Looks of Lennon "I saw her standing there." Lennon shows a growing maturity, suited up for an early TV appearance on UK Granada TV's "Late Scene" in 1963. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: The Looks of Lennon "A Hard Days Night." With a corduroy overcoat that wouldn't be out of place today, a moody Lennon arrives at the Dorchester Hotel, London, after the publication of his first book, "In His Own Write." Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: The Looks of Lennon "Tomorrow Never Knows." Lennon, along with the rest of the Beatles, became distinctly more relaxed about his wear in 1966, as the Sixties became increasingly psychedelic. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: The Looks of Lennon "Give Peace A Chance." Lennon breaks out the military garb as he plays Private Gripweed in Richard Lester's film "How I Won the War," in 1966. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: The Looks of Lennon "The Magical Mystery Tour is coming to take you away..." Back to suits, sort of: Lennon sports a bowler hat and badges during the filming of "The Magical Mystery Tour" in 1967. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: The Looks of Lennon "Dear Yoko." The spectacles remain, but Lennon is distinctly more relaxed come 1968, fully embracing the hippy look, with long hair and a shaggy fur coat. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: The Looks of Lennon "Golden Slumbers." Fully embracing the pajama look, Lennon's hair begins to take center stage in 1969. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: The Looks of Lennon "Well Well Well." Lennon and Ono are out of bed but the hair remains, alongside some impressive headwear, circa 1970. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: The Looks of Lennon "You may say I'm a dreamer..." Lennon shed the hair and extravagant hippy look in the year he wrote "Imagine," what some consider to be his greatest work. Hide Caption 11 of 11"He shook the gun out of my hand and he kicked the gun across the pavement," said Chapman. "He shook me out of my shock."According to the officers who arrived first, Chapman remained at the scene until they apprehended him.Chapman was arraigned the next morning, and his legal team began preparing an insanity defense. He was transferred to Bellevue Hospital, where he was examined by dozens of psychiatrists for both the defense and the prosecution.Though Chapman told Gaines he'd "had touches of schizophrenia and paranoia" throughout his life, he maintained that he was not "under control of that" when he murdered Lennon.On June 22, 1981, to the surprise of even the defense, he entered a guilty plea."The Lord wanted me to plead guilty," he told Gaines.Chapman has been denied parole eight times, most recently in 2014, and is eligible again in 2016.Although the discussions were at times painful, Gaines ultimately got an answer to the question that had haunted so many of Lennon's fans: Why did he do it?"Shooting Lennon was an answer to all of my problems, I guess," Chapman explained. "It was to cancel all my past, to give me an identity."