Baltimore (CNN) Freddie Gray likely would have survived the neck injury he received in the back of a police transport van had he gotten prompt medical treatment, two expert witnesses testified on Monday.Gray, 25, succumbed to "brain death" because his oxygen supply was cut off, Dr. Morris Marc Soriano told a racially diverse jury of seven women and five men at the trial of Officer William Porter.As the trial entered its second week, much of the testimony focused on medical evidence and what it reveals about the core issues presented by this racially and politically charged case: Did officers abandon their duty by leaving Gray shackled and without a seat belt in the back of a police van? And did they then fail to heed Gray's requests for medical help?Porter, 26, is the first of six officers to go to trial in the case. He has pleaded not guilty to charges of involuntary manslaughter, second-degree assault, misconduct in office and reckless endangerment.Prosecutors have portrayed him and the other officers as callous, while the defense insists Porter was a young officer overwhelmed by the bureaucracy of a department that doesn't consistently follow its own policies.The medical testimony came from a trio of witnesses: The assistant medical examiner who performed the autopsy on Gray; a surgeon who specializes in neck injuries; and a city fire paramedic who was called to tend to Gray after he arrived unresponsive at a police station in West Baltimore.Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral A pillow with Freddie Gray's image sits inside his casket during his funeral at the New Shiloh Baptist Church in Baltimore on Monday, April 27. Gray, 25, was arrested on April 12. According to his attorney, Gray died a week later from a severe spinal cord injury he received while in police custody. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral People in the audience react as attorney William Murphy speaks at Gray's funeral. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Gray's twin sister, Fredericka Gray, is embraced by family members and supporters during her brother's funeral. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral People watch as Gray's casket is carried out of the church. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Mourners pay their respects at Gray's casket. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral A man wears a button that pays tribute to Gray. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Gray's loved ones pray during his funeral. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Mourners wait for the start of the funeral. Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Two women comfort each other. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Mourners help a woman who collapsed during the funeral. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral The Rev. Jesse Jackson, left, speaks with Rep. Elijah Cummings of Maryland before the start of the funeral. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Gray's mother, Gloria Darden, kneels at his casket and embraces him before the start of the funeral. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral A man arrives for the funeral. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: Freddie Gray's funeral Men prepare to remove Gray's casket from the hearse in front of the church. Hide Caption 14 of 14For Soriano, the surgeon, the evidence was clear. Gray could have survived his initial injury if somebody had been paying attention to him and immediately called for help."If the paramedic had gotten there, he would not have suffered the brain injury that ultimately killed him," he testified. "His brain would have likely survived if that breathing tube had been put in immediately."Any movement after Gray's initial injury likely would have made it worse, Soriano testified."It didn't help him at all and may have caused significantly more injury."He also testified that Gray could not have deliberately banged his head with enough force to cause such a severe injury. He compared it to injuries a person receives from diving into the shallow end of a swimming pool.Another prisoner who was in the van with Gray reported he'd heard banging at the end of the 45-minute van ride.But Dr. Carol Allan, the assistant state medical examiner, testified that Gray could not have been kicking or intentionally banging his head against the side of the van because of his injuries. However, she said the other prisoner may have overhead a seizure.Gray was taken into police custody on April 12; his arrest was captured on bystander video. Prosecutors say Porter was present for all but one of six stops on Gray's 45-minute ride to the Western Division police station.It remains unclear exactly how Gray was injured. But Allan testified that Gray likely received his neck injury between the van's second and fourth stops.JUST WATCHED Freddie Gray: How did we get here? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Freddie Gray: How did we get here? 02:07Although there is conflicting testimony about when, witnesses say Gray complained at least once of being unable to breathe. He asked Porter for medical assistance when the officer checked on him at the fourth stop, according to Allan's testimony and Porter's interview with department investigators. Allan said Gray likely was injured when the van stopped suddenly.The delay in getting Gray medical attention led Allan to classify Gray's death as a homicide."If he had gotten prompt medical attention, it would not have been a homicide," she stated, adding Gray likely would have survived if van driver Caesar Goodson had rushed him straight to a hospital when he told Porter "I can't breathe."Allan said that occurred during the van's fourth stop, when Goodson summoned Porter to check on his passenger.Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case Lt. Brian Rice, who was part of the bike patrol that arrested Gray. On July 18, 2016, Rice was found not guilty of involuntary manslaughter, reckless endangerment and misconduct in office in connection with Gray's arrest and death. Six Baltimore police officers were charged in the April 2015 death of Freddie Gray, who died of a severe spinal-cord injury while in police custody. But there were no convictions in the case. Three of the officers were acquitted before prosecutors dropped the charges against the remaining three in July 2016 . Seen here is, who was part of the bike patrol that arrested Gray. On July 18, 2016, Rice was found not guilty of involuntary manslaughter, reckless endangerment and misconduct in office in connection with Gray's arrest and death. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case Caesar Goodson drove the van in which Gray was fatally injured. On June 23, Goodson Officerdrove the van in which Gray was fatally injured. On June 23, Goodson was found not guilty on all charges, including the most serious count of second-degree depraved-heart murder. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case William Porter was the first of the six officers to face a trial. It was the first of the six officers to face a trial. It ended in a mistrial in December, and he had been scheduled to be retried before prosecutors dropped the charges against him. Porter was summoned by the van's driver to check on Gray during stops on the way to a police station. Prosecutors said Porter should have called a medic for Gray sooner than one was eventually called, and they said he also should have ensured that Gray was wearing a seat belt. Porter had been charged with involuntary manslaughter, second-degree assault, reckless endangerment and misconduct in office. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case Edward Nero, one of three bike officers involved in the initial police encounter with Gray, , one of three bike officers involved in the initial police encounter with Gray, was found not guilty of all charges in May. He was accused of second-degree intentional assault, two counts of misconduct in office and reckless endangerment. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case Garrett Miller was another one of the bike officers involved in Gray's arrest. He placed Gray in a restraining technique known as a "leg lace" before Gray was placed in the van, said Marilyn Mosby, the state's attorney for Baltimore. All charges were dropped against Miller, who had been indicted on charges of second-degree intentional assault, two counts of misconduct in office and reckless endangerment. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Baltimore officers in Freddie Gray case Sgt. Alicia White was present during one of the stops to check on Gray's condition. She and two other officers saw Gray unresponsive on the floor of the van, and when White spoke to Gray and he did not respond, she allegedly did nothing to help him, prosecutors said. All charges were dropped against White, who had been indicted on charges of involuntary manslaughter, second-degree negligent assault, misconduct in office and reckless endangerment. Hide Caption 6 of 6Gray was unresponsive by the time the van arrived at the last of the six stops, the Western Division police station. He died in a hospital a week later, setting off several days of protests. On the afternoon of his funeral, April 27, the protests erupted in rioting, arson and looting in the worst unrest Baltimore had seen in half a century.City fire paramedic Angelique Herbert testified that she responded to a call for an arm injury and was directed to the van. She saw several officers standing around the van, and Gray in the back, his head turned to the side with his eyes staring straight ahead. He was unresponsive and not breathing.She added that Gray was on his knees, with Porter and another officer holding his head up. She called for backup.Herbert said she couldn't immediately discern what was wrong with Gray and gave him medication to start his heart and to counteract a possible drug overdose.As she took in what she saw, she said, "I think I yelled some obscenities. I might have said, 'What the hell?' or something like that."She asked the officers what happened, and they speculated Gray might have been banging his head on the side of the van.Before intubating Gray, putting him in a cervical collar and placing him on a backboard, the paramedic said she felt his neck."It wasn't firm," Herbert told the jury. "It was more crumbly."Testimony resumes Tuesday, and the judge has said the case is expected to end by December 17. On Monday, one juror -- an African-American woman -- was dismissed because of a medical emergency and replaced by one of four alternates, a white man.