(CNN) Let's start off with some good news: The Zika epidemic in Puerto Rico is over. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. James Comey hearingPop the popcorn, put those drinks on ice, and get ready to settle down in front of the flat screen, computer screen or whatever screen you choose for a few hours of must-see TV. James Comey's testimony today before the Senate intelligence committee -- likened to the political equivalent of a Super Bowl -- is one of the most anticipated congressional hearings in decades . And it has big-time implications for Donald Trump's presidencyAt this pivotal moment in the probe into Russian meddling in last year's election , the fired FBI director is expected to publicly contradict Trump's recollections of their private conversations. Comey dropped his seven-page opening statement a day before his testimony, and in it he says the President demanded a loyalty pledge from him and wanted Comey to find a way to let the investigation into Michael Flynn "go." Comey said Trump also wanted him to lift the Russia "cloud" from his presidency. Comey's statement also verifies Trump's claim that Comey told him he wasn't under investigation, something Trump wanted Comey to say publicly.Finally, will the President be live-tweeting along with the rest of us during Comey's testimony? Republicans hope he doesn't. Officially, the RNC will take the lead on rapid response to Comey.2. Tehran attacksJUST WATCHED Suicide bombs and gun attacks rock Tehran Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Suicide bombs and gun attacks rock Tehran 01:043. Missing planeA military flight with 122 people on board that disappeared in Myanmar has been found. Wreckage and bodies were discovered in the Andaman Sea, just off the country's west coast. The regularly scheduled military flight was headed to Myanmar's capital of Yangon when contact with it was lost. Many of the passengers were military personnel, though there were also 58 civilian adults and 15 children on board. Why the plane went down is still being investigated.JUST WATCHED Myanmar searches for missing plane Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Myanmar searches for missing plane 03:004. North KoreaJUST WATCHED How much damage can North Korea's weapons do? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How much damage can North Korea's weapons do? 01:045. Fighting fake newsThe world's leading tech companies may join up to wage war against fake news on the internet. Google's parent company, along with Facebook, Twitter and others, are thinking about putting their brainy heads together to find ways to stop all the disinformation. It's all part of an effort to make a safer internet for everybody . Jigsaw, a Google offshoot, already has developed tools to tackle related issues like comment trolls and ISIS online recruitment.JUST WATCHED PolitiFact helping Facebook flag fake news Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH PolitiFact helping Facebook flag fake news 02:56Today's number ...34%President Donald Trump's approval rating -- a new low -- in the latest Quinnipiac pollHappening now ...It's a snapUK voters head to the polls today for a "snap" general election that'll go a long way to determining how the Brits leave the European Union. If you haven't been paying close attention, let us help you catch upJUST WATCHED One thing to know about the UK's snap election Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH One thing to know about the UK's snap election 01:12Breakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Fossil findsWe're older than we thought. Scientists have found remains of Homo sapiens in Morocco that are We're older than we thought. Scientists have found remains of Homo sapiens in Morocco that are 100,000 years older than those previously found.A little helpWhen a pregnant gorilla at the Philly zoo struggled during labor, the vets knew just who to call -- an OB-GYN.The bros are backBarack Obama and Justin Trudeau rekindled the world's favorite bromance -- and the internet rejoiced.Nutty problemNuts and glass don't mix. That's why Southern Grove Cashews Halves and Pieces with Sea Salt are being recalled by the FDAHistoric screwupA San Diego middle school's yearbook gets yanked after the N-word was inadvertently printed on the cover.And finally ...Watered down