(CNN) The iPhone came out 10 years ago today. But it almost didn't happen . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Catholic ChurchA senior adviser to Pope Francis is taking leave from the Vatican to fight sexual assault charges in his home country of Australia . Police are not detailing the charges Cardinal George Pell faces but say there are "multiple complainants." Pell maintains he's innocent and the victim of "character assassination."2. Travel banJUST WATCHED SCOTUS allows parts of Trump's travel ban Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH SCOTUS allows parts of Trump's travel ban 02:503. Health careJUST WATCHED Rep. King slams Medicaid cuts in Senate bill Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rep. King slams Medicaid cuts in Senate bill 01:414. FranceJUST WATCHED Poll: US image suffers under President Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Poll: US image suffers under President Trump 00:585. VenezuelaTurmoil and uncertainty continue to grip Venezuela following a helicopter attack on the Supreme Court in Caracas. The stolen police helicopter involved in the attack has been found, but the man suspected of piloting it is still on the run. Separately, Venezuela's Supreme Court banned Attorney General Luisa Ortega from leaving the country, and froze her assets ahead of a July trial. Ortega recently accused President Nicolas Maduro's government of "state terrorism" by stripping citizens of their right to protest, trying them in military courts and carrying out raids without consulting courts. All this comes as Venezuela continues its devastating economic downward spiralJUST WATCHED Amanpour explains situation in Venezuela Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Amanpour explains situation in Venezuela 03:26NUMBER OF THE DAY111JUST WATCHED California governor signs 'right to die' bill Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH California governor signs 'right to die' bill 04:03BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.California says chemicals in Roundup weed killer can cause cancerJUST WATCHED California: Ingredient in Roundup can cause cancer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH California: Ingredient in Roundup can cause cancer 01:06Boaty McBoatface has returned!The world's favorite little research vessel has learned some exciting things.Obama's jeans game is improvingThen again, after those "Dad" jeans , there's really nowhere to go but up.Eminem looks ... different?WHAT'S FOR LUNCHGet 'The Point'We're cutting through the political spin so you don't have to with a brand new newsletter -- The Point with Chris Cillizza. Subscribe now to get CNN Politics reporter and editor-at-large Chris Cillizza's unique take on the day in politics.AND FINALLY ...WHAT. IS. THIS. THING?!