(CNN) The latest jobs report comes out this morning. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. Paris climate agreement"We're getting out." And with that, President Trump pulled the US out of the Paris climate accord. During the announcement in the Rose Garden, Trump said the pact hurts American workers and puts "draconian" financial burdens on the US. He said he's open to renegotiating the agreement to try to score a better deal.But CNN's Chris Cillizza says Trump's decision fits in with what White House chief strategist Steve Bannon thinks is Trump's best path to reelection -- keep his conservative base happy and then figure out the rest later.The lengthy process to get out of the accord won't conclude until November 2020 (that's correct, right around the election), so that ensures we'll be talking about this one during the next presidential campaign.JUST WATCHED Macron to US: Make our planet great again Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Macron to US: Make our planet great again 01:012. Philippines resort attackThirty-five people are dead after an attack at a casino in a resort in Manila. But authorities in the Philippines aren't calling it a terrorist attack . A lone gunman went into the casino area of Resort World Manila firing shots and setting gambling tables on fire. Most of the victims weren't shot though; they died of suffocation while hiding in a bathroom. The gunman committed suicide. We don't know who he is but police say he's a foreigner. So if this wasn't a terrorist attack, what was it? The theory is this may have been a robbery, because the gunman tooks millions in gaming chips and stuffed them in a backpack.JUST WATCHED Dozens die in Manila resort robbery Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dozens die in Manila resort robbery 01:173. Russia investigationSo we now have a date for when fired-FBI Director James Comey will testify. Comey will appear before the Senate intelligence committee at 10 a.m. ET on June 8 . He's expected to talk about his conversations with President Trump and allegations that the President told him to stop his investigation into ex-national security adviser Michael Flynn's alleged ties to Russians. It will most definitely be a morning of must-see-TV.In other Russia-related news, letters obtained by CNN reveal that two Democratic senators had asked for an FBI perjury investigation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions because they thought he lied during his confirmation hearing about meeting with Russia's ambassador. The senators have yet to hear back from the FBI.The House intelligence committee's been busy too. It's been issuing subpoenas, but not all of them related to Russia. Three subpoenas have been issued seeking information on the "unmasking" -- by three Obama administration officials -- of the names of Trump transition aides caught on US-monitored lines talking with foreign officials.And guess who's talking about Russia and the 2016 elections? Russian President Vladimir Putin. He says, yeah, some Russians may have indeed meddled in the election, but they weren't working for the government. Putin says they were just "patriotic hackers" doing their part for the motherland.JUST WATCHED Sources: Comey to testify publicly about Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sources: Comey to testify publicly about Trump 02:184. Travel banPresident Trump wants to take the fight for his travel ban to the Supreme Court . In court filings, the Trump administration asked the high court to let the proposed ban -- which would block travelers from six Muslim-majority countries from entering the US -- go into effect. The travel ban's taken it on the chin in the lower courts , where judges have ruled for a nationwide halt to it. The justices will likely ask for a response from the ban's challengers, so it's not certain when the Supremes will take action on this. Team Trump has argued the ban is necessary for national security, but critics have said it's just discrimination against Muslims.JUST WATCHED The six countries banned by Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The six countries banned by Trump 02:145. National spelling beeSend all of your spelling questions to Ananya Vinay. The 12-year-old from Fresno, California won the Scripps National Spelling Bee . She outlasted 291 other kids (and several rounds against runner-up Rohan Rajeev) to lay her hands on the trophy and the $40,000 grand prize. So what was the winning word? "Marocain," a dress fabric made with a warp of silk or rayon and a filling of other yarns.JUST WATCHED National Spelling Bee winner is ... Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH National Spelling Bee winner is ... 00:10Breakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Package dealThe future of Amazon: delivering packages to homes by drone. The future of Walmart: having employees drop them off on their way home.Picture perfect?You gotta fight for your right ... to wear a piece of kitchenware on your head in your driver's license photo.An Arizona man wears a pasta strainer on his head in his driver's license photo.Warms your heart, Part 1A self-declared "former racist" put his money where his mouth is when he sent an anonymous apology letter to a black church -- along with $2,000.Warms your heart, Part 2A pair of Muslim-American groups raised more than half a million dollars for the victims in the Portland train stabbings.Number of the day13 acresThat's how much bigger Big Sur is after a massive landslide added to California's coastlineAnd finally ...So he's not perfect