(CNN) Millennials use public libraries the most , a new report says. Who knew? Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. SyriaTrump didn't always want Obama to act in SyriaTrump didn't always want Obama to act in Syria 03:07Trump didn't always want Obama to act in Syria2. Senate health care billMom on Medicaid cuts: It's a punch in the gutMom on Medicaid cuts: It's a punch in the gut 02:54Mom on Medicaid cuts: It's a punch in the gut3. Travel banJUST WATCHED The six countries banned by Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The six countries banned by Trump 02:144. RussiaJUST WATCHED Diplomat at center of probe leaving his post Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Diplomat at center of probe leaving his post 03:075. Climate changeAs the climate changes, we'll probably see fewer hailstorms in North America. That's good news, right? Yeah, but don't cancel that insurance policy just yet, because hail stones are going to get bigger , probably leading to more damage to your roof and vehicles. A new study in the journal Nature Climate Change says as the planet warms, we're having fewer, but heavier, rainstorms -- and the same thing is happening with hailstorms.JUST WATCHED How hail is formed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How hail is formed 01:00NUMBER OF THE DAY$3 millionThat's the settlement the family of Philando Castile -- who was killed by a St. Anthony, Minnesota, police officer -- reached with the city.JUST WATCHED Combined videos show fatal Castile shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Combined videos show fatal Castile shooting 03:19BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Top tweetersToxic reactionA nuclear power plant in the Czech Republic picked its interns by holding a bikini contest on Facebook . No, really.Five guys, 35 years, same photoThey first did it back in the '80s, and five friends from California have been posing on the same bench every five years ever since.Audience participationIf you're going to see "1984" on Broadway, you definitely won't be bored, since audiences have fainted, vomited and screamed at its torture scenes.No catchThere is such a thing as a free lunch, at least in Montreal, where a pair of immigrant restaurant owners offers them as a way to give back.QUOTE OF THE DAY"You know, I try to stay out of politics"Ivanka Trump, when asked whether she ever advised her father about his Twitter feed. Her answer caused the internet (heck, the whole world) to say, "Um, what?"JUST WATCHED Ivanka Trump: I try to stay out of politics Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ivanka Trump: I try to stay out of politics 00:55AND FINALLY ...(Not so) still life