The case against "America's Dad" was almost entirely absent of forensic evidence, and instead relied on intensely personal witness testimony. Cosby, who has pleaded not guilty to three charges of aggravated indecent assault, has said he will not personally testify.But testimony from others has been at turns emotional and straightforward; furious and calm; and riveting and tedious. A week into the 79-year-old comedian's high-profile trial, here's a look at the most compelling moments of the trial so far.Prosecutor points at Cosby in opening statementsSince the flood of accusers reached a tipping point in late 2014, Cosby's fall from beloved comedian to alleged criminal has been rapid and significant. That fall was made clear with a dramatic finger-point early in assistant district attorney Kristen Feden's opening statements"Trust, betrayal, and the inability to consent. That's what this case is about," Feden said."This is a case about a man, this man," she said, pointing at Cosby, "who used his power, and his fame, and his previously practiced method of placing a young trusting woman in an incapacitated state so that he could sexually pleasure himself so that she couldn't say no."Feden detailed how Cosby gave Constand three pills that incapacitated her and then sexually assaulted her at his home.Yet she also emphasized that the defendant isn't just some person. It is Bill Cosby."The man sitting accused of very heinous crimes is a man that many of us recognize," she said.Andrea Constand tells the story of the alleged assaultAndrea Constand testified in court on Tuesday and Wednesday.Constand is the prosecution's central witness, and her allegations that Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted her form the core of the case. On Tuesday, the curly-haired former basketball player took the stand and told her story clearly and firmlyAs the director of operations for Temple University women's basketball team from 2001-2004, Constand befriended Cosby, a powerful trustee at the school. He became a mentor and father figure to her, she testified.In January 2004, she visited him at his home in suburban Philadelphia to discuss her future career plans. He offered her three blue pills that he said were herbal and would help her relax, she testified."Put them down, they're your friends. They'll take the edge off," Cosby told her, she testified. "I said 'I trust you.' I took the pills and I swallowed the pills down."About 20 to 30 minutes later, her words were slurred and she became weak, and she told Cosby about her symptoms, she said. He moved her to a couch and then sidled in behind her as she said she became "frozen" and incapacitated.She continued: "I have no recollection until at some point later I was jolted conscious, I was jolted awake, and I felt Mr. Cosby's hand groping my breasts. I also felt his hand inside my vagina moving in and out. And I felt him take my hand and place it on his penis and move it back and forth."Constand got up in the morning still felt disoriented, she testified."I felt really humiliated and I was really confused," she said, wiping tears from her eyes. "I just wanted to go home."Bill Cosby shakes, lowers his head during her storyJUST WATCHED Smerconish: What Bill Cosby revealed to me Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Smerconish: What Bill Cosby revealed to me 03:41Cosby, who is now legally blind and walks with a cane, has largely sat quietly at the defense table.During Constand's testimony, though, he was expressive in his physical movements . He lowered his head and shook it several times in apparent disagreement. He leaned his head on his hand and shook it more.Cosby's statements to police in 2005 and in a civil deposition in 2006, in which he said his sexual contact with Constand was consensual, have been read aloud to the jury.But his physical responses to Constand's testimony may be the closest in-person response from Cosby that jurors will see.Constand concedes she was 'mistaken' in statementsConstand testimony was not without issues. Defense attorneys have argued that their relationship was consensual, and they pointed out that Constand's initial statements to police in January 2005 changed several times compared to her later testimony.For example, Constand initially told police that the assault occurred at Cosby's house on March 16, 2004, after a dinner with Cosby and other friends. However, she conceded in testimony that the assault occurred on a different date and was not after a dinner."I was mistaken," Constand said. "It was a lot of confusion putting a lot of dates together."In addition, Constand told investigators that she did not spend time alone with Cosby prior to the alleged assault, and that she did not have contact with him afterward.But she admitted on the stand that she had been alone with Cosby on previous occasions, and even visited him in his hotel room at the Foxwoods Resort Casino in Mashantucket, Connecticut.Constand was in touch with him after the assault, too. Phone records showed they made a total of 72 phone calls, but Constand said those calls were primarily to update Cosby on the Temple women's basketball team, which was her job. And in August 2004, she asked Cosby's representatives for tickets for her and her family to Cosby's stand-up show in Toronto, which she did not initially tell police."I was really nervous and wasn't able to recall every particular moment that I had seen Mr. Cosby in order of dates," she explained.After a year of silence, Constand spoke upBill Cosby arrives for his assault trial.Though the alleged assault took place in January 2004, Constand did not tell anyone else about the incident until a year later. At the end of March 2004, she left Temple and moved back in with her parents in Canada.Gianna Constand, Andrea's mother, testified on Wednesday that she noticed her daughter was twitching, had become more anxious, and was screaming in the night.In January 2005, after a night of particularly bad dreams, she called her mother told her that she thought she had post-traumatic stress disorder. Gianna Constand asked her what was the matter, and Andrea Constand opened up. She called Cosby "a bad word" and said he had drugged and raped her, Gianna Constand testified.The mother, driving in her car on the way to work, started shaking and had to pull off the highway, she said."I could tell that she was in a real bad, panicking state of mind," the concerned mother said.Gianna Constand has 'aggressive' call with CosbyWhen they met up later in the day, Gianna Constand made her daughter give her Bill Cosby's phone number. She then called Cosby and spoke with him for more than two hours in what she testified was an "aggressive conversation."In the call, Cosby detailed what he did sexually to Andrea Constand, even going so far as to say she had an orgasm. He was "trying to lead me to believe that it was consensual or that it was OK by her, manipulating it," Gianna Constand said.Cosby told her he was a "sick man" and admitted that "I sound like a perverted person," she testified. She got "aggressive" and "rude" with him and pressed him on what drugs her daughter had taken that made her incapacitated.He said he could not read the prescription bottle, she testified, so he agreed to send it to her. She said she never did receive that bottleHe asked what he could do to help, and she said all she wanted was an apology. He then apologized to both daughter and mother, Gianna Constand testified.Toward the end of her testimony, the mother broke down, wiping tears from her eyes."I knew that Mr. Cosby had mentored her and they were good friends. She viewed him like a father," she said. "I was obviously very distraught at ... just the fact that he betrayed her."First-week legal fireworksGianna Constand's fiery cross-examination provided the biggest legal fireworks of the trial, as she was defiant and often fired back with curt retorts to defense attorney Angela Agrusa's questioning.During her testimony, the mother said that Cosby asked her to add Andrea Constand to their phone call in 2005. In cross-examination, Agrusa suggested that Cosby did so because he thought Andrea Constand would explain to her mother that they had a romantic relationship.Wrong, Gianna Constand testified, he did so because "he wasn't going to tell the truth," she said sharply.Agrusa pressed the point, and suggested Cosby thought their sexual activity was consensual."Whatever you feel," Gianna Constand said, pointedly. "Whatever you think."Agrusa also asked Gianna Constand about what she told police at that time, and the mother said she couldn't remember all the details. After several of these questions, Gianna Constand took aim at the attorney's line of questioning."I feel you're testing my memory about irrelevant things," she said.Kelly Johnson says she was drugged and assaultedPhotos: Who are Cosby's accusers? More than 50 women have spoken out to various media outlets about allegations of sexual misconduct by Bill Cosby. Here are 25, in chronological order, who have spoken with CNN, spoken on camera about their allegations or been the subject of responses from Cosby's attorneys. Read more on the allegations and Cosby's denials. Hide Caption 1 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? In January 2004, Andrea Constand, then a 31-year-old staffer for the women's basketball team at Temple University -- Cosby's alma mater -- was at the comedian's Cheltenham, Pennsylvania, home when Cosby provided her medication that made her dizzy, she alleged the next year. She later woke up to find her bra undone and her clothes in disarray, she further alleged to police in her home province of Ontario, Canada, in January 2005. She was the first person to publicly allege sexual assault by Cosby. The comedian settled a civil suit with Constand that alleged 13 Jane Does had similar stories of sexual abuse. On December 30, 2015, Cosby was charged with sexual assault in relation to the 2004 accusation, Costand's attorney Dolores Troiani confirmed to CNN. That ended in a mistrial after the jury deadlocked in June 2017, but prosecutors immediately announced they would retry the case. Hide Caption 2 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Janice Dickinson alleged she and Cosby had dinner in Lake Tahoe, Nevada, in 1982 and he gave her a glass of red wine and a pill she believed was for menstrual cramps. "The last thing I remember was Bill Cosby in a patchwork robe, dropping his robe and getting on top of me. And I remember a lot of pain," she told "Entertainment Tonight." Cosby's attorney said in a statement that Dickinson's allegation was a "fabricated lie" that contradicted what she wrote in her autobiography and what she said during a 2002 New York Observer interview. Hide Caption 3 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Heidi Thomas says she met Cosby in 1984 and visited him at a house outside of Reno, Nevada, for "coaching." At the time, she was a 24-year-old aspiring actress and model known as Heidi Johnson. Thomas says Cosby offered her a glass of Chablis, and she later woke up with Cosby next to her in bed, naked, and "forcing himself in my mouth." A representative of Cosby did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Thomas' allegation. Hide Caption 4 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Cindra Ladd, longtime wife of Oscar-winning film producer Alan Ladd Jr., alleges Bill Cosby sexually assaulted her in 1969 when she was single and 21. Cosby's representatives did not respond to CNN's repeated requests for comment. Hide Caption 5 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? The now-wife of "The Incredible Hulk" star Lou Ferrigno, Carla Ferrigno, told CNN that Cosby forcibly kissed her at his home in 1967. Carla Ferrigno said she told her husband, whom she married in 1980, about the incident about five years ago and he advised her to stay silent. Hide Caption 6 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Kristina Ruehli was a secretary for a talent agency in 1965 that had Cosby as a client. She said she was invited to a party to celebrate a taping of "Hollywood Palace." Ruehli said she and an actress were the only attendees at the party. She said she became unconscious after consuming drinks and later woke up to find Cosby attempting to force her mouth onto his pubic area. She said she pulled away to vomit and drove herself home. It was the last time she would see Cosby, she told CNN. Hide Caption 7 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Linda Brown was a 21-year-old model in 1969 when, she alleges, Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted her in Canada near her hometown. She says she was introduced to the comedian by her then-manager, had dinner with Cosby and was later served a soft drink by Cosby at an apartment. "I took a sip and blacked out," Brown said at a press conference with her attorney in February. "When I awakened, I was naked in the bed beside him." Hide Caption 8 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Joan Tarshis was a 19-year-old actress in 1969 when, she said, she met Cosby in Los Angeles. The two became friendly. One night after taping his sitcom, he invited her back to his bungalow and fixed her a "redeye" (a Bloody Mary topped with beer), she alleged. "The next thing I remember was coming to on his couch while being undressed," she told Hollywood Elsewhere. "I was sickened by what was happening to me and shocked that this man I had idolized was now raping me. Of course I told no one." It was the first of two similar incidents, said Tarshis, who is now a journalist and publicist. Hide Caption 9 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Linda Joy Traitz said Cosby offered her a ride home while she was working as a waitress at a restaurant in Los Angeles that he co-owned in 1969. On the way, they detoured to the beach. They parked and he offered her drugs "to relax," she alleged. After refusing "he kept offering me the pills," she alleged, and it made her feel uncomfortable. She claimed he then groped her chest, pushing her down in the seat and toward the door, and tried to lie on top of her. She got out of the car and ran, she said. She added that she was "absolutely not" raped. He tried to calm her, she said, then drove her home in silence. Traitz has a criminal record in Florida and spent time in prison on a conviction for drug trafficking, according to state records. Cosby's lawyer passed on her lengthy rap sheet. Traitz spoke openly about her record to CNN. Hide Caption 10 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Playboy bunny Victoria Valentino said her friend Francesca Emerson first introduced her to Cosby hoping to help her get work on his show "I Spy" in the late '60s. Valentino said after an interview in his trailer, Cosby invited her and a different friend to dinner, where they drank red wine and Cosby offered her pills to "cheer up," she said. She said she felt "stoned," slurring her words. They then went with him to what she described as a "ballers pad," an office-like space in an apartment building, with two loveseats and no working phone. Valentino said she was feeling "totally out of it" when she saw Cosby attempting to advance on her passed-out friend. She said she began reaching out to Cosby to pull him off her friend when he pushed her down, first pushing himself near her mouth, before turning her around and raping her. Hide Caption 11 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Famed model Beverly Johnson alleged that Bill Cosby drugged her in the 1980s at his Manhattan brownstone, where she'd gone to rehearse lines. During the meeting, Johnson said, Cosby was "very insistent" she drink a cup of cappuccino he had made for her. "After that second sip, I knew I had been drugged," she alleged. "It was very powerful, it came on very quickly." Johnson said she then confronted and cursed at the comedian, claiming, "I wanted him to know he had drugged me." She alleged that Cosby got angry, grabbed her, took her outside and flagged down a taxi for her. Cosby's attorney didn't immediately return a CNN call for comment on Johnson's allegation, which she first made in a Vanity Fair article. Hide Caption 12 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? In 1970, Tamara Green was an aspiring model in her early 20s. She alleged an incident occurred during a working lunch with Cosby and others. Green told Matt Lauer of the "Today" show that at the lunch, she was suffering from the flu and Cosby "produced two capsules." She said they made her feel "great" at first, but then left her "almost literally face down on the table of this restaurant." Cosby took her to her apartment and started "groping me and kissing me and touching me and handling me and you know, taking off my clothes," Green said. Green further detailed her allegations in a defamation lawsuit against Cosby filed in December. Hide Caption 13 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Judy Huth has filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles Superior Court claiming sexual battery and infliction of emotional distress during an incident at the Playboy Mansion, according to court documents. The alleged sexual assault took place in 1974 when Huth was 15 years old. According to court documents, Huth and a 16-year-old friend met with Cosby and eventually went to the Playboy Mansion with him. "He then proceeded to sexually molest her by attempting to put his hand down her pants and then taking her hand in his hand and performing a sex act on himself without her consent," according to the documents. Cosby's lawyer said Huth's claims are "absolutely false" and he accused her of engaging in extortion after Cosby rejected her "outrageous demand for money in order not to make her allegations public." Hide Caption 14 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? P.J. Masten was a Playboy bunny in her 20s and met Cosby while working as a server at one of Playboy's establishments. He asked her to lunch one afternoon in Chicago, then later called to invite her to dinner, she told CNN. Before the dinner, attended by four other men at the Whitehall Hotel, Masten said, Cosby poured her a drink. "And the next thing I know, it was 4 o'clock in the morning," Masten said. "I woke up in a bed naked, bruised. He was lying next to me, and I slithered out of the bed, my clothes all over the floor. ... I got myself together, I went downstairs, I got in a cab and I went home." Masten recalled "hurting really bad." As to why, she alleged: "There were bruise marks all over me. I knew I was raped by him." Hide Caption 15 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? In a statement released through lawyer Gloria Allred's office, Helen Hayes alleged that Cosby followed her and two friends "around all day" at a summer 1973 celebrity tennis tournament in Pebble Beach, California, hosted by actor Clint Eastwood. Hayes claimed she and her friends tried to avoid Cosby, but he caught up with them in a restaurant, "approached me from behind and reached over my shoulder and grabbed my right breast." "I was stunned and angry, because he had no right to do that and I did not know why he would behave that way," Hayes said. "His behavior was like that of a predator." Hide Caption 16 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Louisa Moritz, seen here in a 1971 episode of "Love, American Style," told TMZ she was in the green room of the "The Tonight Show" at NBC in New York when Cosby paid her a visit. He offered to turn her into a "major star through his direction." Then he forced himself on her, she alleged. Hide Caption 17 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Donna Motsinger, 73, one of the Jane Does in the civil suit with Constand, said she met Cosby while working in a restaurant in Sausalito, California. According to Motsinger, Cosby invited her to join him for his show and she accepted. On the way, they stopped for gas and had a drink. After becoming ill, Motsinger said Cosby gave her what she thought was an aspirin. "After that there was some conversation and laughing and stuff, but then the next thing I remember ... he's next to me, he's got his hands on me and I look up I see the lights of the city. I could see it clear as a bell in my mind right now, the lights of the city coming back and it was all blurry, kind of the lights, and I passed out again," she said. Hide Caption 18 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Florida nurse Therese Serignese, 57, told ABC's "20/20" that she was a 19-year-old model visiting Las Vegas when Cosby handed her pills in a private dressing room after a performance. "Take these," Cosby told her, according to Serignese. After consuming the pills, she remembered "feeling drugged, and I was kind of leaning forward, and he was behind me having sex with me. And I -- I remember it because it was not good." Hide Caption 19 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Jewel Allison was a model and aspiring actress in her late 20s when she met Cosby in the late 1980s. She said he offered to help her, inviting her to his home. When she arrived, no one else was there besides Cosby, Allison said. At one point, after taking a few sips of wine, she began to feel "out of it." "I realized that something sexual was going on, but I was unable to stop it," Allison told CNN. Hide Caption 20 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Barbara Bowman was a 17-year-old model and actress who met Cosby in Denver in 1985. Bowman told Newsweek that Cosby visited her numerous times, giving her acting lessons and "flying me around to major cities to events." After she turned 18, Cosby "assaulted (me) a number of times," she said. In an incident in New York, Bowman "had one glass of wine and then I blacked out. I woke up throwing up in the toilet. ... I was wearing a white T-shirt that wasn't mine, and he was in a white robe." Hide Caption 21 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Lise-Lotte Lublin was a 23-year-old model in 1989 when, she alleges, Cosby gave her two shots of alcohol that caused her to black out in the Elvis suite of the Hilton Hotel in Las Vegas. Her next memory was waking up at home, unable to remember what happened in the interim, she says. Hide Caption 22 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Identifying herself only by a first name during a news conference with lawyer Gloria Allred, Chelan said she was a 17-year-old aspiring model who worked at the Las Vegas Hilton when her father's wife sent pictures of her to Cosby. She said Cosby arranged to meet her at the Vegas Hilton "to introduce me to someone from the Ford modeling agency." During that meeting, she said, Cosby gave her "a blue pill, which he said was an antihistamine, with a double shot of Amaretto." She alleged that Cosby lay down next to her on the bed and began touching her sexually and grunting. Hide Caption 23 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Helen Gumpel, a model and actress known as Helen Selby professionally, appeared in a bit part in a late-1980s "Cosby Show" episode. A short time later, her agent got a call that Cosby wanted to meet with her. In a statement, Gumpel said that, after Cosby hugged and kissed her in front of onlookers at a New York studio, she was asked back to his dressing room. There, she found Cosby "wearing a loosely tied robe" and then -- with the robe still on -- he put "his crotch area in my face," Gumpel alleged. The comedian touched her shoulders then tried repeatedly to get Gumpel to have a drink he'd made, she said. After her refusals, Gumpel said, "Cosby turned his back to me and walked to the door. Cosby looked at me and his face clouded up, as if he was frustrated and angry, and he told me to leave." Hide Caption 24 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Beth Ferrier told media outlets in 2005 that she met Cosby in Denver in the mid-'80s. He mentored her for a time, but one night, she said, he gave her a drugged cappuccino. "I woke up in my car in the parking lot with my clothes all a mess," she said. "I wondered, I still wonder, 'What did he do with me? Why was my bra unhooked?'" The two later conducted an "on-and-off consensual affair" that lasted several years, she alleged to People magazine. "He kept luring me in," Ferrier told the magazine. "I felt like I couldn't say no." At the time, Cosby's publicist told People he had no comment. Hide Caption 25 of 26 Photos: Who are Cosby's accusers? Chloe Goins told the Los Angeles Police Department on January 14 that Cosby sexually assaulted her in 2008 during a party at the Playboy Mansion, when she was 18. Spencer Kuvin, Goins' attorney, said his client may be the first accuser to have a case that falls within the statute of limitations for bringing criminal charges. Cobsy's lawyer, Martin Singer, denied the accusation and said the comedian was not in California on August 8, 2008, the night of the "Midsummer Night's Party." Hide Caption 26 of 26Though Cosby has been accused of assault by dozens of women, the charges at trial only deal with Constand's accusations. However, one other woman, Kelly Johnson, was allowed to testify as prosecutors sought to show that Cosby had a pattern of prior bad acts that were similar.Johnson was the first witness called on Monday, alleging that Cosby drugged and assaulted her in 1996.Johnson, who was an assistant at the William Morris talent agency, became familiar with Cosby, who was the company's biggest client, she said. He took an interest in her and would often call her "in a fatherly, favorite uncle, Dr. Huxtable type of way," she said, referring to Cosby's character on his TV show.In 1996, he invited her to a hotel to get lunch, she said. But when she arrived, she said she was instead directed to his private bungalow, where he said he would order in lunch. Once there, Cosby told her she "looked like (she) needed to relax a little bit" and offered her a large white pill, she testified.Fighting back tears, Johnson testified that when she seemed hesitant, Cosby asked her, "Would I give you anything to hurt you?" She said she took the pill because she "felt extremely intimidated." After taking the pill, she felt like she was "underwater," she said.In a semi-unconscious state, she then went to the bed and Cosby laid behind her, making grunting noises, she testified. In addition, he put lotion on her hand and then made her touch his penis, she testified through tears.Jurors hear of Cosby's use of QuaaludesJurors on Thursday and Friday listened as witnesses read aloud Cosby's statements to police in 2005 and his answers in a civil deposition in 2006. Cosby said in the police statement that he gave Constand over-the-counter Benadryl, and that she was awake and consented to their sexual activity.But his statements in the civil deposition were far more damaging. In those, Cosby said he had obtained Quaaludes to give them to women with whom he wanted to have sex. Defense attorneys had asked the judge not to allow those comments at trial to no avail.The Quaalude comments were unsealed for the first time in July 2015, and they ultimately led the Montgomery County district attorney to file assault charges against Cosby.Cosby arrives with companyBill Cosby arrived Monday with actress Keshia Knight Pulliam.Each day of the trial, Cosby has arrived to the courthouse arm-in-arm with someone recognizable, be it his publicist Andrew Wyatt or a celebrity friend.On Monday, he was joined by Keshia Knight Pulliam, 38, who played Rudy Huxtable on "The Cosby Show."He arrived Tuesday with Wyatt, his faithful publicist, who has helped escort Cosby into the courtroom every day of the trial so far.On Wednesday, Cosby walked hand-in-hand with Sheila Frazier, who played Cosby's wife in the 1978 film "California Suite," and her husband John Atchison, a celebrity hairstylist.On Thursday, Cosby entered court with two comedians. One was Lewis Dix Jr., a Philadelphia native who acted in "Cosby" and in "A Different World," a spinoff of the "The Cosby Show." The other was Joe Torry, an actor who has been featured in "Tales From the Hood" and several episodes of "ER."His wife Camille has not yet arrived with him.Judge doubles as 'activity planner' for juryLegal documents are wheeled into the courtroom.Because of the intense media coverage of the trial, Judge Steven O'Neill ruled that the jury would be sequestered for the trial. The jurors, chosen from near Pittsburgh, were bused in to the area and are being kept at hotels away from their families.They aren't allowed to go out on their own, so O'Neill has had to double as both "trial judge and also activity planner," he said in court. He helps order their meals and plan their breaks, and he even apologized on Monday for what he called a "snack snafu.""We don't have the Department of Sequestration," he said, acknowledging some food-related issue in the juror break room. "We need to do a better job."O'Neill's role in charge of jurors has sometimes contrasted with the traumatic testimony in the trial. For example, he paused during cross-examination questions to Andrea Constand on Tuesday to discuss with a court aide the dinner plans for jurors, he explained.