Story highlights More than 500 people attend vigil Wednesday evening in Dearborn, Michigan, for PalestiniansArab-Americans anguish over violence between Hamas in Gaza and Israel'It's the worst reality television you'd ever want to watch,' says Palestinian-American with relatives in GazaCease-fire brings relief, but many relatives in Gaza are now without homesEvery explosion in Gaza seems personal to Said Durrah.The Washington-area resident has so many relatives in Gaza that he can't count them all: uncles, aunts, cousins, second cousins, and so on, in Zaytoon, Rimal and other Gaza communities. His mother is one of nine children, many of whom still live in the Palestinian territory."Every missile hits close to home, pardon the pun," he said. "It's the worst reality television you'd ever want to watch."For example, when the past week's violence between Israel and Hamas' military wing in Gaza killed a family of 10 in Gaza, Durrah learned that he was distantly related to them. The family was an in-law of a cousin, he said.Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A boy stands in the rubble of a destroyed shop in Beit Lahia, in northern Gaza, on Monday, November 26. Hide Caption 1 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian school girls walk in a destroyed class room on Monday, November 26, in Gaza. The school was damaged some days ago, before a truce between Hamas and Israel. Hide Caption 2 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Robert Serry, the United Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process, greets children during a visit to Gaza to survey damage caused by the exchange of fire between Israel and Hamas militants, on Sunday, November 25. Hide Caption 3 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Employees of the Palestinian Interior Ministry pray in the rubble of the Interior Ministry building in Gaza City on Sunday, November 25. Hide Caption 4 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli soldier fires during clashes with Palestinians after Israeli settlers fought with villagers in the northern West Bank village of Qusra on Saturday, November 24. Hide Caption 5 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian schoolboys look through a hole at their damaged school in Gaza City on Saturday. Hide Caption 6 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinians school girls walks along a corridor of their school in Gaza City on Saturday. Hide Caption 7 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Palestinian schoolgirl writes on the blackboard of a classroom in Gaza City on Saturday. Hide Caption 8 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian youths gesture during a demonstration next to the security fence on the Gaza border with Israel east of Khan Yunis, in the southern Gaza Strip, on Friday, November 23. A Palestinian was shot dead by Israeli forces near the Gaza border, the first casualty since the two sides agreed a truce ending their week-long conflict, Palestinian medical sources said. Hide Caption 9 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Palestinian boy plays in a demolished car in Gaza City on Friday. Hide Caption 10 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinians inspect the rubble of a destroyed house in Gaza City on Friday. Hide Caption 11 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinians gather to listen to Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh speak Thursday in Gaza City. Supporters of Hamas and its moderate rival Palestinian party Fatah displayed rare unity in celebrating the cease-fire. Hide Caption 12 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Hasidic Jewish boys dance near the border with northern Gaza on Thursday. The Jews provided music on a visit to show their support for the Israeli soldiers. Hide Caption 13 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Hasidic Jewish boy dances on the barrel of a tank Thursday as he and others celebrate the Israeli soldiers. Hide Caption 14 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh waves to the crowd Thursday in Gaza City. Haniyeh, who heads the governing party of Gaza, said the cease-fire showed the United States had been forced to soften its stance in the region in the wake of the Arab Spring. Hide Caption 15 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinians celebrate news of the cease-fire with Israel in Gaza City on Wednesday, November 21. Hide Caption 16 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli soldiers sit in a restaurant at the Yad Mordechay Junction as they watch Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu deliver a statement on live television from Jerusalem. Hide Caption 17 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Rockets launch from Gaza City as an explosion is seen on the horizon at Israel's border with Gaza on Wednesday. Hide Caption 18 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli soldiers pray next to an artillery gun along Israel's border with Gaza on Wednesday, November 21. Violence continued in the region Wednesday, leaving hopes of a cease-fire in tatters just hours after a halt in fighting seemed close. Hide Caption 19 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Emergency services personnel work at the scene of an explosion on a bus Wednesday in Tel Aviv, Israel. The blast on the public transport bus left at least 22 injured, a hospital official said. Hide Caption 20 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A woman is helped at the scene by emergency workers Wednesday after the explosion on the bus in Tel Aviv. Hide Caption 21 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – The Ministry of Internal Security compound in Gaza City is in ruins Wednesday after an Israeli airstrike targeted it overnight. Hide Caption 22 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Smoke billows after Israeli airstrikes in southern Gaza on Wednesday. Hide Caption 23 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli soldier sleeps in a deployment area Wednesday on Israel's border with Gaza. Hide Caption 24 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Palestinian pushes his bicycle amid debris Wednesday near the destroyed compound of the Ministry of Internal Security in Gaza City. An Israeli airstrike targeted the building overnight. Hide Caption 25 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – The Israeli military strikes border tunnels between Egypt and southern Gaza on Tuesday, November 20. Hide Caption 26 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli-fired artillery flares illuminate the sky over the southern Israeli border with Gaza Tuesday as fighting continues. Hide Caption 27 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton met to deliver joint statements in Jerusalem, Tuesday. Hide Caption 28 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli forces fire a shell from the Israel-Gaza border into Gaza on Tuesday. Hide Caption 29 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Men on motorcycles drag the body of man through the streets of Gaza City on Tuesday. The men dragging the body claimed it was the body of a collaborator and an Israeli spy. Hide Caption 30 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Ronit Hakmon reacts to the damage to her home in Beer Sheva, Israel, on Tuesday, after a rocket from Gaza militants hit it. Hide Caption 31 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian families evacuate their homes following an Israeli airstrike Tuesday in Gaza City. More than 100 Palestinians have been killed in the weeklong attacks, the Gaza Ministry of Health says. Four Israelis have died. Hide Caption 32 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian children stand at the gate of their home Tuesday as they watch a funeral procession for those killed following an Israeli airstrike in northern Gaza. Hide Caption 33 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Palestinian carries a bag of items salvaged from a house destroyed in an Israeli airstrike Tuesday on Gaza City. Hide Caption 34 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli soldier reads his morning prayers Tuesday at an Israeli army deployment area near the Israel-Gaza border as they prepare for a potential ground operation in the Palestinian coastal enclave. Hide Caption 35 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Palestinian boy walks through the rubble of Hamas commander's house Tuesday in the southern Gaza town of Rafa. An overnight Israeli airstrike targeted the home. Hide Caption 36 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli F-15 takes off from an Israeli air force base on Monday, November 19, on a mission over the Gaza Strip. Israel carried out 80 strikes on Monday, raising to more than 1,300 the number of sites targeted since it began its bombing campaign on Wednesday, according to the Israel Defense Forces. Hide Caption 37 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli pilot adjusts a strap as he sits in the cockpit of a jet at an air force base on Monday. Hide Caption 38 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian firefighters extinguish a blaze following an Israeli airstrike in a Gaza City tower housing Palestinian and international media on Monday. Hide Caption 39 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli girl holds her sister as they take cover in a large concrete pipe used as a bomb shelter during a rocket attack from the Gaza Strip on Monday in Nitzan, Israel. Hide Caption 40 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli children play in a large concrete pipe used as a bomb shelter on Monday in Nitzan. Hide Caption 41 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Birzeit University students clash with Israeli soldiers at the Atara checkpoint close to the West Bank university as they protest against Israel's military action on Monday. Hide Caption 42 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Birzeit University students clash with Israeli soldiers on Monday. Hide Caption 43 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian women mourn during the funeral Monday of members of one family killed when an Israeli missile struck a three-story building in Gaza City on Sunday. Hide Caption 44 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli artillery shells hit a target in the Gaza Strip on Monday near Israel's border with the Gaza Strip. Hide Caption 45 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli soldier from a tank squadron attends a morning briefing at an Israeli army deployment area near the Israel-Gaza Strip border on Monday. Hide Caption 46 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli soldiers from a tank squadron prepare ammunition at an Israeli army deployment area on Monday. Hide Caption 47 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A paramedic helps a Palestinian woman out of her building, which was damaged during an Israeli air raid on a nearby sporting center in Gaza City on Monday. At least 90 Palestinians, including a family of 10, have been killed, officials say. Hide Caption 48 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A man covers his nose and mouth as he passes burning debris after Israeli airstrikes in Gaza City on Monday. Hide Caption 49 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Palestinian man carries a stuffed toy through a street littered with debris after an air raid on a sporting center in Gaza City on Monday. Hide Caption 50 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian men gather around a crater caused by an Israeli airstrike at a home in Gaza City on Sunday, November 18. Hide Caption 51 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian relatives grieve at the hospital in Gaza City on Sunday, November 18, over family members killed in an airstrike. Hide Caption 52 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinians search the debris of the home following an Israeli airstrike in Gaza City on Sunday, November 18. Hide Caption 53 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli emergency worker inspects the damage to a car in Ofakim, Israel, that was hit by a rocket fired by Palestinian militants from the Gaza Strip on Sunday, November 18. Hide Caption 54 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli soldiers wait at an Israeli army deployment area near the Israel-Gaza Strip border on Sunday, November 18, as they prepare for a potential ground operation in the Palestinian coastal enclave. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that Israel is ready to "significantly escalate" its operation against militants in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip. Hide Caption 55 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Smoke rises after an Israeli air strike on an office of Hamas television channel Al-Aqsa in the southern Gaza town of Rafah on Sunday, November 18. Israeli warplanes hit the Gaza City media center and homes in northern Gaza in the early morning. Hide Caption 56 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian children look at damaged buildings following Israeli air strikes Sunday, November 18, in Rafah. Hide Caption 57 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli soldiers wearing prayer shawls conduct morning prayers Sunday, November 18, at an Israeli army deployment area. Hide Caption 58 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli soldier from a tank squadron adjusts the tank barrel at an Israeli army deployment area on Sunday, November 18. Hide Caption 59 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Cloth hangs from a window of a building damaged during Israeli air strikes on Gaza City on Sunday, November 18. Hide Caption 60 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Palestinian demonstrator throws stones in front of the headquarters of the Palestinian security forces in the West Bank city of Jenin on Sunday, November 18, during a protest against Israel's ongoing military operation in Gaza. Hide Caption 61 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A fireball rises as the Israeli air force carries out a raid over Gaza City on Saturday, November 17. Hide Caption 62 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli woman and her children take cover as sirens wail in Tel Aviv on Saturday, November 17. Hide Caption 63 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinians walk amid the debris of a burning factory near the house of Ezzedine Haddad, commander of the armed wing of the Hamas movement, after it was destroyed during an Israeli air strike on Gaza City on Saturday, November 17. Hide Caption 64 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Palestinian woman helps her friend cover her face with a traditional scarf during clashes at the Hawara checkpoint in the occupied West Bank city of Nablus on Saturday, November 17. People rallied against the Israeli military operations. Hide Caption 65 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinians stand on the rubble of the demolished home of Ezzedine Haddad, commander of the armed wing of the Hamas movement, the Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades, that was destroyed by an Israeli airstrike in Gaza City on Saturday, November 17. Israeli air strikes in Gaza killed 10 Palestinians, five of them militants, as nine Israelis were hurt by rocket fire, four of them soldiers, medics said. Hide Caption 66 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli soldiers fire tear gas toward strone throwers demonstrating against the Israeli military offensive on the Gaza Strip at the Qalandia checkpoint, in the occupied West Bank, on Saturday, November 17. Israeli strikes on Gaza destroyed the Hamas government headquarters as Israel called up thousands more reservists for a possible ground war. Hide Caption 67 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian youth clash with Israeli soldiers during protests at the Hawara checkpoin on Saturday, November 17. Hide Caption 68 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli soldiers stand guard by the Iron Dome defense system launch site on Saturday, November 17, in Tel Aviv, Israel. Hide Caption 69 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A picture taken from the southern Israeli border with Gaza shows smoke billowing following an Israeli air strike inside the Palestinian territory on Saturday, November 17. Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that Israel would be held to account for the children who were among 40 people dead in three days of airstrikes on Gaza. Hide Caption 70 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Palestinian youth takes cover behind a makeshift barrier during clashes with Israeli soldiers on November 17. Israeli strikes on Gaza destroyed the Hamas government headquarters as Israel called up thousands more reservists for a possible ground war. Hide Caption 71 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli missile from the Iron Dome defense missile system is launched to intercept and destroy incoming rocket fire from Gaza on November 17 in Tel Aviv, Israel. Israeli troops have been massing on the border as some 200 targets were hit overnight in Gaza, including Hamas cabinet buildings. Hide Caption 72 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli civilians run for cover during a rocket attack launched from Gaza on November 17 in Tel Aviv, Israel. Hide Caption 73 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli soldiers gather next to their armored bulldozers stationed on Israel's border with Gaza on Saturday, November 17. Hide Caption 74 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli soldiers fire tear gas toward stone throwers demonstrating against the Israeli military offensive in Gaza in the village of Beit Omar, north of the West Bank town of Hebron, on Saturday, November 17. Egypt and Turkey put the onus on Israel to end the fighting around Gaza as Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan visited Cairo a day after Washington urged the two governments to pressure the Palestinians. Hide Caption 75 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An injured student from the University of Birzeit is carried away Saturday, November 17, during clashes with Israeli soldiers as hundreds of students took part in a demonstration against the ongoing Israeli military offensive on the Gaza Strip in the Israeli occupied West Bank town of Betunia. Israeli strikes on Gaza killed 10 Palestinians and destroyed the Hamas government headquarters. Hide Caption 76 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A student from the University of Birzeit throws a molotov cocktail toward Israeli soldiers during clashes. Hide Caption 77 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinians gather at the site of an Israeli air raid in Gaza City on November 17, 2012. Israeli air strikes hit the cabinet headquarters of Gaza's Hamas government after militants fired rockets at Jerusalem and Tel Aviv as Israel called up thousands more reservists in readiness for a potential ground war. Hide Caption 78 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian paramedics carry an injured woman on a stretcher Saturday, November 17, following an Israeli air raid on a house in Beit Lahia in the northern Gaza Strip. Hide Caption 79 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Smoke billows across the southern Israeli border with the Gaza Strip on Saturday, November 17, following Israeli air strikes inside the Palestinian territory. Hide Caption 80 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Palestinian Hamas policeman looks at an Israeli rocket in the street in Gaza City on Saturday, November 17. Hide Caption 81 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli man walks to his house damaged by a rocket fired by Palestinian militants from the Gaza Strip in the moshav of Sde Uziyahu near the southern Israeli city of Ashdod. The Israeli military said it had sealed off all main roads around Gaza and declared a closed military zone, in the latest sign it was poised to launch a first ground offensive on the Palestinian enclave since December 2008-January 2009. Hide Caption 82 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Pro-Palestinian demonstrators protest near the Israeli Embassy in Madrid on Friday, November 16, against Israel's aerial bombardment of the Gaza Strip. Hide Caption 83 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli children wave their national flag Saturday, November 17, as they greet a bus carrying soldiers on a road leading to the Israel-Gaza border near the southern Israeli town of Ofakim. Hide Caption 84 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli tanks maneuver at the Israeli-Gaza Strip border. Hide Caption 85 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Relatives take cover from a rocket attack during the funeral for Itzik Amsalem in Kiryat Malachi, Israel, on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 86 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A rocket fired from Gaza toward Israel sails into the air Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 87 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Explosions erupt from spots targeted by Israeli airstrikes inside Gaza on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 88 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli soldiers stand guard while explosives experts examine the site where a rocket fired from the Gaza Strip landed near the Jewish settlement of Gush Etzion in the village of Kisan, south of Bethlehem on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 89 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A relative grieves during the funeral for Itzik Amsalem in Kiryat Malakhi, Israel, on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 90 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian protesters hold up the Hamas flag during a rally Friday, November 16, in the West Bank city of Ramallah. Hide Caption 91 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – People take cover during a rocket attack at a funeral Friday, November 16, in Kiryat Malakhi, Israel. Hide Caption 92 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian youths throw stones at Israeli security forces Friday, November 16, in a West Bank village near Bethlehem. Hide Caption 93 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli soldier aims at Palestinian youth at a West Bank checkpoint Friday, November 16, during a protest against the fighting in Gaza. Hide Caption 94 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian Fares Sadallah, 11, cries outside his home after an Israeli airstrike Friday, November 16, in northern Gaza. Hide Caption 95 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian firefighters try to extinguish a blaze Friday, November 16, at the Ministry of Interior in Gaza City following an Israeli air raid. Hide Caption 96 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Relatives of Itzik Amsalam, who was killed Thursday, November 15, in Kiryat Malakhi, Israel, mourn during the funeral on Friday, November 16.. Hide Caption 97 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A woman cries during the funeral of Itzik Amsalam on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 98 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli soldier fires a tear gas canister toward Palestinian stone throwers on a road mainly used by Israeli settlers in the West Bank village of Beit Omar on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 99 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinians run for cover after an Israeli airstrike hits Gaza City on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 100 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian youths inspect a destroyed mosque in northern Gaza on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 101 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli soldiers conduct a patrol as some 16,000 reserve troops are drafted in on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 102 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian mourners carry the body of Audi Naser during his funeral in Gaza on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 103 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian women and children cry during the funeral of Audi Naser on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 104 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian firefighters try to extinguish a fire at the Civilian Affairs branch of the Ministry of Interior on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 105 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Smokes billows from a target of an Israeli airstrike Friday, November 16, in Gaza near the border with Israel. Hide Caption 106 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli woman looks out from an apartment building in Ashdod, Israel, damaged by a rocket fired by Palestinian militants on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 107 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinians extinguish a fire after Israeli airstrikes targeted the Interior Ministry building in Gaza City Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 108 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israelis take cover in a pipe used as a bomb shelter, after a rocket was launched from the Gaza Strip on Thursday, November 15, in Kiryat Malachi, Israel. Hide Caption 109 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli man looks out from an apartment building that was hit by a rocket launched presumably from the Gaza Strip, claiming three lives on Thursday, November 15, in Kiryat Malachi, Israel. Hide Caption 110 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinians extinguish a fire after Israeli air strikes targeted an electricity generator that fed the house of Hamas's Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh in Gaza City, on Thursday, November 15. Hide Caption 111 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A crater is left at a spot targeted by an Israeli airstrike in Gaza City early Thursday, November 15. Hide Caption 112 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli soldiers rest by their armored personnel carriers stationed on the Israel-Gaza border on Thursday, November 15. Hide Caption 113 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Rescue workers evacuate a body Thursday, November 15, in the Israeli town of Kiryat Malakhi after a rocket launched from Gaza hit an apartment building. Hide Caption 114 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Hide Caption 115 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian relatives mourn over the body of Hanen Tafish, a 10-month-old girl, at the morgue of the al-Shifa hospital in Gaza City on Thursday, November 15, after she died following an Israeli air strike in the Zeitun neighbourhood. Hide Caption 116 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinians watch a funeral Thursday, November 15, in southern Gaza. Hide Caption 117 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Palestinian pleads for help as he and others try to save a man trapped under his car after an Israeli air raid Thursday, November 15, in northern Gaza. Hide Caption 118 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Israeli police inspect an apartment building hit by a rocket fired by Palestinian militants in Kiryat Malakhi on Thursday, November 15. At least three Israelis were killed and four were wounded, an Israeli police spokesman said. Hide Caption 119 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – The Israeli military launches a missile Thursday, November 15, from the southern city of Beersheba. Hide Caption 120 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A picture taken from the southern Israeli town of Sderot shows smoke billowing from a spot targeted by an Israeli airstrike inside Gaza on Thursday, November 15. Hide Caption 121 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Palestinian man inspects his damaged house following an Israeli airstrike early Thursday, November 15, in Gaza City. Hide Caption 122 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – An Israeli reacts after a rocket launched from Gaza hits a building Thursday, November 15, in Kiryat Malakhi. Hide Caption 123 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian firefighters extinguish the blaze from the car of Ahmed al-Jaabari, head of Hamas' military wing, after an Israeli airstrike hit it in Gaza City on Wednesday, November 14. The Israeli strike killed al-Jaabari. Hide Caption 124 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A woman sits inside a bomb shelter Wednesday, November 14, in Netivot, Israel. Hide Caption 125 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Smoke rises following an Israeli airstrike Wednesday, November 14, in Khan Younis, Gaza. Hide Caption 126 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian firefighters extinguish fire from the car in which al-Jaabari was apparently riding. Hide Caption 127 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A Palestinian man cries as security forces wheel al-Jaabari's body into a hospital. Hide Caption 128 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian youths look inside a building where al-Jaabari's body was brought after the attack. Hide Caption 129 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – A wounded Palestinian girl cries at the Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza City. Hide Caption 130 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian youths evacuate an elderly man following an Israeli airstrike. Hide Caption 131 of 132 Photos: Photos: Israel-Gaza conflict Israel-Gaza conflict – Palestinian civilians leave their houses following an Israeli airstrike. Hide Caption 132 of 132JUST WATCHED Rash of violence before cease-fire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rash of violence before cease-fire 02:37"Gaza is very much the type of place where everybody is connected," said Durrah, 30.Wednesday's cease-fire between Israel and Hamas has provided some comfort, until the smoke clears and the wreckage can be assessed in Gaza, Durrah said."A cease-fire may bring a little bit of relief, but when the cease-fire is done, they return to the status quo -- minus their homes," Durrah said. "They have to rebuild them without any means to do so, so it's going to be tough."Arab-Americans, Muslims and the Palestinian diaspora are focusing renewed energy and concern on Gaza, a sliver of land along the Mediterranean coast that is about twice the size of Washington and is populated by 1.6 million people, including 1.1 Palestinian refugees."Palestine is a central issue for most Arab-Americans," said Laila Mokhiber, spokeswoman for the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee."Overall, Arab-Americans want to see an end to the siege on Gaza. Until that happens and until the Palestinians are able to exercise their basic human rights, we can't expect to see a lasting cease-fire or peace," Mokhiber said.Many Arab-Americans say Gaza is under Israeli occupation. Durrah likened Gaza to "a cage," walled-in and cut off to the outside world by Israel.JUST WATCHED Possible change in Gaza after cease-fire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Possible change in Gaza after cease-fire 03:31JUST WATCHED What Israel's defense means for Mideast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What Israel's defense means for Mideast 05:14JUST WATCHED Celebratory gunfire over cease-fire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Celebratory gunfire over cease-fire 01:00Israel imposed an economic blockade on Gaza shortly after Hamas was elected to run the Gaza government in 2006.That blockade -- as well as Israel's military might, backed by the United States -- has created humanitarian concerns in Gaza, according to the Arab-American group. The West Bank is also part of the historical conflict between Israel and Palestinians."The occupation of both the West Bank and Gaza and the blockade against Gaza -- as long as that is a reality, you're going to see tensions between Palestinians and Israel," Mokhiber said. "You have civilians against the fourth strongest military in the world. They're killing kids. They're killing civilians. It's not military against military."Durrah owns an event management business that operates fund-raisers for Palestine. He's also a comedian who does stand-up in Las Vegas and Manhattan. But the carnage between Hamas in Gaza and Israel is no laughing matter, and he doesn't engage in the endless arguments so common in the Mideast about who started what in a centuries-long history, he said."What do you say about a place that has been occupied for more than 50 years," Durrah said. "This is a situation where people were born in occupation and lived their entire lives in occupation and died in occupation. It's crazy to me."If you cage an animal long enough, eventually when you get close to that cage, they're going to hiss at you and they may even scratch," Durrah said.Durrah's family received a phone call Tuesday from relatives in Rimal, Gaza."They were literally telling my mother how glass shakes. They were just afraid. They don't know what tomorrow brings or what the next hour brings," Durrah said.Those perils are difficult for Durrah to imagine. It's hard on him, too."It's fear of going to sleep and getting a phone call or, worse, not getting any phone call and wondering -- having the feeling of whether no news is good news or not," Durrah said. "Our issues are so small in comparison to what they're going to go through. We may not be able to sleep because of a cricket in the room, but they are trying to sleep through the soundtrack of blasts and missiles."This month's exchange of Hamas rockets and Israeli airstrikes has prompted pro-Palestinian and pro-Israel rallies throughout the United States.On Wednesday evening, the Congress of Arab American Organizations in Michigan, home to a large Arab diaspora, held a vigil in front of the Dearborn City Hall in support of the Palestinians, and more than 500 Palestinian-Americans, other Arab-Americans, Muslims and others attended the event, said Osama Siblani, publisher of The Arab American News, a weekly bilingual newspaper in Dearborn, Michigan, who also organized the event.Gaza has "been under Israeli siege for many years which makes it a large virtual prison," the group said in a statement. "Just 43 kilometers (about 27 miles) long and 10 kilometers (about 6 miles) wide, most of its residents are Palestinian refugees who have lived in camps since 1948."The violence has prompted an outpouring of humanitarian aid to the people of Gaza, said Saleem Zaru, a Palestinian-American who is executive director of United Palestinian Appeal in Washington.In the past five days, the nongovernmental organization received between $40,000 and $50,000 in donations, which will help 550 families in Gaza who need food and shelter because of the conflict, Zaru said. Donors include Jewish-Americans and people in Asia, he said."Some of their houses have been bombed and it's going to be a while before they can get back to them," Zaru said of the Gaza families. "We're dealing with this on a day-by-day basis."