Story highlights The Holland Tunnel between Manhattan, New Jersey is slated to reopen WednesdayA new storm "will complicate the restoration effort," a Con Edison VP saysAs many as 20,000 households are not expected to back online by the weekendAt least 20 homes burned to the ground in Mantoloking, in Ocean County, New JerseyMore than a week after Superstorm Sandy devastated the New York metropolitan area, some commuters will regain something of a sense of normalcy Wednesday morning.The Holland Tunnel is set to reopen to all commuter traffic at 5 a.m., according to a joint news release from New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie. On an average weekday, the release says, about 91,000 vehicles use the tunnel, which passes under the Hudson River between Manhattan and Jersey City, New Jersey.But for thousands of Sandy's victims, normalcy and reality are far apart.Tired, homeless and emotionally drained, 76-year-old Frank Gissi was not planning to vote Tuesday.The storm-battered ex-New York City cop is among the hundreds of displaced residents in the coastal Staten Island neighborhood of New Dorp with far more basic needs."I'm sick, crying," he said, eight days after Superstorm Sandy knocked out power and swept away homes."I lost everything."Overall, more than 139,000 Staten Island households were affected by Sandy, and thousands there were among about 80,000 New York-area customers still lacking power Tuesday night, according to Con Edison, New York City's largest utility company.Elsewhere, Mayor Michael Bloomberg visited the hard-hit Rockaway neighborhoods of Queens, where sanitation workers continued to clean up downed trees, utility poles and homes.JUST WATCHED Rebuilding after Sandy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rebuilding after Sandy 01:56Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Cleaning crews work in Manhattan's financial district following damage from Superstorm Sandy on Monday, November 12. View photos of New York's recovery. Hide Caption 1 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Evelyn Faherty hugs a friend on Sunday, November 11, while discussing the damage done to her home by Superstorm Sandy in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, New York. Hide Caption 2 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Volunteers shovel sand and water out of the basement of Monir Islam's home in the Rockaway Park neighborhood of Queens, New York, on Sunday. The Rockaways peninsula in Queens was one of the areas hardest hit by Sandy. See photos of Rockaway's continuing struggles Hide Caption 3 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Furniture and other belongings are strewn under and around a beach house damaged by Sandy on Saturday, November 10, in Mystic Island, New Jersey. Hide Caption 4 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Streets in Ortley Beach, New Jersey, were destroyed by Sandy. Hide Caption 5 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Clean-up continues on Saturday, November 10 among piles of debris where a large section of the iconic boardwalk was washed away in the heavily damaged Rockaways. Hide Caption 6 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Mac Baker, right, poses with her niece Nytaisha Baker next to pots of water she heats on the floor with small flames for a bit of warmth in Baker's unheated apartment in the Ocean Bay public housing projects in the Far Rockaway neighborhood in Queens on Friday, November 9. Hide Caption 7 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Theresa Goddard, her apartment still without electricity, is overwhelmed while discussing her living conditions on Thursday, November 8, in the Brooklyn borough of New York. Hide Caption 8 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A police officer carries blankets donated by Ikea for people affected by Superstorm Sandy in Brooklyn. Hide Caption 9 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Debris from Superstorm Sandy is seen on a beach Thursday in Long Branch, New Jersey. Hide Caption 10 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Troops from the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit and the U.S. Navy help local residents remove household items damaged by Superstorm Sandy on November 6, in the New Dorp Beach neighborhood of Staten Island, New York. Hide Caption 11 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Voter Sheresa Walker uses a flashlight for poll worker Lloyd Edwards in a tent set up as a polling place in Queens, New York. Hide Caption 12 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A poll worker directs people to a temporary polling center in the Coney Island section of Brooklyn, New York. Polling sites in Coney Island and the surrounding area were damaged during Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 13 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Michael Fischkelta, 8, lies on his cot with his mother, Jenifer Wilson, in a Red Cross evacuation shelter set up in the gymnasium of Toms River High School on Monday, November 5, in Toms River, New Jersey. View photos of the recovery efforts in New York. Hide Caption 14 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Ruth Hawfield sits next to her cot Monday in a Red Cross evacuation shelter at Toms River High School. Hide Caption 15 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A woman fills out an early voting ballot on Sunday, November 4, in Jersey City, New Jersey. Gov. Chris Christie ordered early voting stations to stay open through the weekend in an effort to get people to vote despite the damage done by Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 16 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A woman sifts through her mother's damaged home for items to save Sunday in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, New York. Hide Caption 17 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A workman repairs damage to the steeple of the First United Methodist Church on Sunday in Port Jefferson, New York. Hide Caption 18 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People sift through their damaged home on Sunday in Breezy Point. Hide Caption 19 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A statue of a firefighter stands in front of a burned down house Sunday in Rockaway, New York. Hide Caption 20 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Abraham Cambrelen, 19, takes the Staten Island Ferry to go check on his mother Sunday while New York recovers from Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 21 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Crowds wait for free gas on Saturday, November 3, at the Bedford Avenue Armory in Brooklyn, New York. Hide Caption 22 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A house sits devastated by Superstorm Sandy on Friday, November 2, in Union Beach, New Jersey. The cost of the storm's damage in the U.S. is estimated at between $30 billion and $50 billion, according to disaster modeling firm Eqecat. Hide Caption 23 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A baby picture lies beneath rubble in a neighborhood devastated by the storm in Union Beach on Friday. Hide Caption 24 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Flood-damaged belongings sit on the side of the road in Union Beach on Friday. Hide Caption 25 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Park Choul works by flashlight in his deli in New York's East Village on Thursday, November 1. More than 3.3 million customers remained without electricity in 15 states and the District of Columbia four days after Sandy barreled ashore. Hide Caption 26 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Geronimo Harrison's apartment in the East Village remains without power or water Thursday. He's using candles for light and a gas stove for heat. Hide Caption 27 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Water gets pumped out of a business in the East Village on Thursday. Hide Caption 28 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A roller coaster sits in the Atlantic Ocean on Thursday after the Fun Town pier it sat on in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, was destroyed by Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 29 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Amusement-park rides lie mangled on the beach after the Fun Town pier in Seaside Heights was destroyed. Hide Caption 30 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – The arcade at the FunTown pier in Seaside Heights is in ruins. Storm damage is expected to cost tens of billions of dollars. Hide Caption 31 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – The inside of a gas pump is exposed at a closed station that was recently under floodwater on Thursday, November 1, in Hoboken, New Jersey. Superstorm Sandy, which made landfall along the New Jersey shore, has left the state with a fuel shortage due to logistical problems and power failures. Hide Caption 32 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People wait in line for fuel at a Shell Oil station onThursday in Fort Lee, New Jersey. Fuel shortages have led to long lines of cars at gasoline stations in many states. Hide Caption 33 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Cars wait in line for fuel at a Gulf gas station in Fort Lee, New Jersey. Hide Caption 34 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A woman leaves an Exxon gas station that was out of fuel on Thursday in North Bergen, New Jersey. Hide Caption 35 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Bridget De La Torre holds her daughter Neve, 3, as daughter Paz sits nearby while they rest and charge devices on Thursday. They were at a shelter for those affected by Superstorm Sandy at Saints Peter and Paul Church in Hoboken, New Jersey. Bridget's family has no electricity or hot water, and their car was destroyed by flooding. Hide Caption 36 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Waves break in front of an amusement park destroyed by Superstorm Sandy on Wednesday, October 31, in Seaside Heights, New Jersey. At least 56 people were killed in the storm. New Jersey suffered massive damage and power outages. Hide Caption 37 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People walk near the remains of burned homes in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, New York, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 38 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – An overview of the fire damage in Queens, New York, following Hurricane Sandy. Residents in hard-hit areas sifted through the wreckage of Sandy on Wednesday as millions remained without power. Hide Caption 39 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Buildings on the shoreline are pictured from Air Force One as it prepares to land in Atlantic City, New Jersey, carrying President Barack Obama, who visited areas hardest hit by the unprecedented storm. Hide Caption 40 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – President Barack Obama speaks as New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie looks on, as they visit a shelter for Hurricane Sandy victims in Brigantine, New Jersey. Hide Caption 41 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – The shadow of Air Force One is cast on the water as it prepares to land in Atlantic City on Wednesday, October 31. Hide Caption 42 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Residents in the Rockaway section of Queens, New York, wait to charge their phones at a government generator. Kennedy International Airport in New York and Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey resumed operations on limited schedules Wednesday, and the New York Stock Exchange commenced trading after being closed for two days. Hide Caption 43 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Motorists drive through standing water in Hoboken, New Jersey. Known as the Mile Square City, the low-lying neighborhoods suffered deep flooding resulting from the storm surge associated with Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 44 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A member of Army National Guard Unit Gulf 250 from Morristown, New Jersey, evacuates victims of Hurricane Sandy in Hoboken on Wednesday, October 31. Hide Caption 45 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Residents traverse flooded streets as clean up operations begin in Hoboken, New Jersey. Hide Caption 46 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – New Jersey Natural Gas technician Carlos Rojas inspects a leaking gas main that is under water at a home damaged by Hurricane Sandy in Long Beach Island, New Jersey. Hide Caption 47 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A resident looks through the remnants of his home in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, New York. Hide Caption 48 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Flood-damaged streets are viewed in the Rockaway section of Queens, New York, where the historic boardwalk was washed away due to Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 49 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People walk past homes damaged by Hurricane Sandy in Long Beach Island, New Jersey. Hide Caption 50 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Traders stand outside of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on Wednesday, October 31. U.S. equity markets resumed trading Wednesday for the first time this week after Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 51 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People board the ferry, one of the few functioning transportation systems, in Hoboken, New Jersey, on Wednesday, October 31. Hide Caption 52 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Members of the State University of New York Maritime Academy aid in the relief efforts, using row boats to help victims from in Hoboken, New Jersey. Hide Caption 53 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Jimmy Lee, owner of The Nail Store, begins the cleanup of his shop from damage done by Hurricane Sandy in Hoboken, New Jersey. Hide Caption 54 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Blaine Badick and her fiancee Andrew Grapsas cross a flooded street with their dog while leaving their home in Hoboken. Hide Caption 55 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Residents walk through the area where the boardwalk was washed away in the Rockaway neighborhood of Queens, New York, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 56 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – The Rockaway boardwalk in Queens, New York, was stripped down to the piers by Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 57 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People look at a damaged section of the Rockaway boardwalk in Queens, New York, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 58 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People walk down a flooded street on Wednesday, October 31, in Hoboken, New Jersey. Hide Caption 59 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man charges his cellphone at a home that still has power in Hoboken, New Jersey, on Wednesday, October 31. As of Wednesday afternoon, more than 2 million customers in New Jersey were without power. Hide Caption 60 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A firefighter stands on the porch of a home destroyed by fire in Queens on Wednesday. Hide Caption 61 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Customers line up to buy supplies at an Ace Hardware with a power generator in Hoboken, New Jersey, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 62 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Superstorm Sandy stripped the steps from the deck of this home in Long Beach Island, New Jersey. Hide Caption 63 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Superstorm Sandy left a car buried in sand in Long Beach Island, New Jersey. Hide Caption 64 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A helicopter flies past damaged homes in Long Beach Island, New Jersey, on Wednesday, October 31. Hide Caption 65 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man makes his way through floodwater and debris in Long Beach Island, New Jersey, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 66 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A police car patrols an empty waterfront neighborhood without power in Atlantic City, New Jersey, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 67 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Concrete piers are all that remain of the destroyed boardwalk in Atlantic City on Wednesday. Hide Caption 68 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Debris from damaged property and the remains of a boardwalk litter the shoreline in Atlantic City on Wednesday. Hide Caption 69 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Waterfront property in Atlantic City lays in tatters on Wednesday. Transportation in the state was crippled by floodwaters, as well. Hide Caption 70 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – "We are in a state of crisis all across this state," Newark, New Jersey, Mayor Cory Booker told CNN on Wednesday. "It's going to be a challenging time." Hide Caption 71 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A police car patrols an empty waterfront neighborhood that lost power at dawn in Atlantic City, New Jersey, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 72 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People wait for buses along New York's Sixth Avenue on Wednesday. Hide Caption 73 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Superstorm Sandy stripped New York's historic Rockaway boardwalk down to its foundation. Hide Caption 74 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A woman examines damage to the Rockaway neighborhood in New York on Wednesday. Hide Caption 75 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Commuters ride a NY Waterway ferry from Jersey City, New Jersey, on Wednesday, the first day of operation since the storm hit. Hide Caption 76 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man rides on the front of a forklift while recording flood damage for insurance purposes in Little Ferry, New Jersey, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 77 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Con Edison employee John Shammah pauses while working on a steam pipe on First Avenue in New York City on Wednesday. Hide Caption 78 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – CNN iReporter Jordan Shapiro captured this view of the Williamsburg Bridge in New York at 11 p.m. on Tuesday, October 30. Half of the bridge and Brooklyn is lit, while the Manhattan side and the surrounding part of the island remain shrouded in darkness. Hide Caption 79 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Dog owners in Alexandria, Virginia, gathered to see the flood waters left by Hurricane Sandy on Tuesday. Hide Caption 80 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Taxis sit in a flooded lot Tuesday in Hoboken, New Jersey. Hide Caption 81 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People take pictures of a flooded street Tuesday in Hoboken. Hide Caption 82 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man stands near a homemade road block on Tuesday in Little Ferry, New Jersey. Hide Caption 83 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People wait in line to fill containers with gas at a Shell station in Edison, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Superstorm Sandy left much of Bergen County flooded and without power. Hide Caption 84 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Aerial images from the U.S. Coast Guard show the coastline in Brigantine, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Sandy struck land near Atlantic City, New Jersey, around high tide Monday night. Hide Caption 85 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Homes and other buildings in Brigantine were destroyed in Sandy's wake. New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie described the devastation in the state as "unthinkable." Hide Caption 86 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Brigantine saw extensive damage from high winds and flooding. Hide Caption 87 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Homes are flooded Tuesday in Tuckerton, New Jersey. President Barack Obama signed major disaster declarations for New Jersey and New York, clearing the way for federal aid. Hide Caption 88 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A resident walks down a street covered in beach sand due to flooding from Hurricane Sandy in Long Beach, New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 89 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Firefighters work to extinguish flames in a home in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens on Tuesday. The massive fire broke out during the storm and destroyed at least 80 homes Hide Caption 90 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Ted Wondsel, owner of Ted's Fishing Station in Long Beach, assesses the damage to his business Tuesday. Hide Caption 91 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People wait outside a shelter at the Bergen County Technical Schools Teterboro Campus on Tuesday in Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey. Hide Caption 92 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Utility workers from Delmarva Power replace a power pole that was damaged during Hurricane Sandy in Ocean City, Maryland, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 93 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Dale Kelly sits on a bench Tuesday on a flooded street in Ocean City, New Jersey, which was hit hard by Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 94 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Ted Wondsel, left, of Point Lookout works on part of a dock destroyed in the storm in Long Beach on Tuesday. Hide Caption 95 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – West Broadway in Long Beach is covered in beach sand due to flooding from Hurricane Sandy on Tuesday. Hide Caption 96 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Residents walk along a street covered in beach sand after floodwaters from Superstorm Sandy retreated Tuesday in Long Beach. Hide Caption 97 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A small plane damaged in the storm sits on a runway in Farmingdale, New York, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 98 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Streets remain flooded in portions of Ocean City, New Jersey. Hide Caption 99 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Utility workers repair a traffic signal damaged by the storm in Ocean City, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 100 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A Virgin Mary statue stands in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, New York, on Tuesday after a fire fed by high winds destroyed at least 80 homes, officials said. Hide Caption 101 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – President Barack Obama outlines the federal government's response to Superstorm Sandy at the Red Cross headquarters in Washington. Hide Caption 102 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Firefighters work to contain the fire in Queens on Tuesday. Some 200 firefighters battled the six-alarm blaze. Hide Caption 103 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man surveys damage to sailboats Tuesday at a marina on City Island in New York. Hide Caption 104 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – "My message to the federal government: no bureaucracy, no red tape, get resources where they're needed as fast as possible, as hard as possible, and for the duration," Obama said in Washington Tuesday. Both Obama and Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney canceled campaign events. Hide Caption 105 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People stand on a mound of construction dirt on Tuesday to view a section of the uptown boardwalk in Atlantic City, New Jersey, that was destroyed by flooding. Hide Caption 106 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A firefighter looks through debris in Queens on Tuesday. In September, the same area endured severe weather as a powerful cold front brought heavy rain, high winds and a tornado. Hide Caption 107 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A malfunctioning generator billows black smoke at a building in New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 108 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Mitt Romney helps gather donated goods for storm relief Tuesday in Kettering, Ohio. Hide Caption 109 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Emergency personnel help a resident of Little Ferry, New Jersey, onto a boat after rescuing her from floodwater on Tuesday. Hide Caption 110 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Dean Walter, left. and Henry Young walk along a seawall in Scituate, Massachusetts, with their surfboards after going into the heavy surf for about 20 minutes on Tuesday. Hide Caption 111 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Superstorm Sandy left New York's South Street Seaport flooded and covered in debris on Tuesday. Hide Caption 112 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Passers-by look at a car that was crushed by a tree near New York's financial district on Tuesday. Hide Caption 113 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Pedestrians and bikers cross the Brooklyn Bridge after the storm on Tuesday. Hide Caption 114 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – People stand among the debris of the destroyed section of Atlantic City, New Jersey's, uptown boardwalk on Tuesday. Hide Caption 115 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Sailboats rest on the ground after being tipped over by Superstorm Sandy on City Island, New York, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 116 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Onlookers watch a dangling crane, damaged in the winds of Superstorm Sandy, atop a luxury high-rise under construction in midtown Manhattan on Tuesday. Hide Caption 117 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – An onlooker snaps a photo of the damaged crane on Tuesday. Hide Caption 118 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Jolito Ortiz helps clean up a friend's apartment on New York's lower east side on Tuesday. Hide Caption 119 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A tidal surge created by Sandy flooded the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel in New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 120 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A worker cuts down a tree near American University in Washington on Tuesday. Hide Caption 121 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A home badly damaged by Superstorm Sandy sits along the shoreline in Milford, Connecticut, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 122 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – An emergency worker carries a resident through floodwaters in Little Ferry, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 123 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Police walk past debris left by the storm at Battery Park in New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 124 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Floodwater splashes into the window of a building on the shore in Bellport, New York, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 125 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Rescue workers use a hovercraft to rescue a resident using a wheelchair from floodwaters in Little Ferry, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 126 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A resident of Little Ferry, New Jersey, assists in rescue efforts with his personal watercraft on Tuesday. Hide Caption 127 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – The HMS Bounty, a 180-foot sailboat, is submerged in the Atlantic Ocean about 90 miles southeast of Hatteras, North Carolina, on Monday, October 29. Hide Caption 128 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man walks through the debris of a 2,000-foot section of Atlantic City, New Jersey's "uptown" boardwalk on Tuesday. It was destroyed by flooding from Sandy. Hide Caption 129 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Downed trees are removed near the Korean War Veterans Memorial in Washington on Tuesday. Hide Caption 130 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Heavy surf buckles Ocean Avenue in Avalon, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 131 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Sam Rigby walks on Tuesday near an uprooted tree that grazed his house and hit his neighbor's house in Washington. Hide Caption 132 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A photographer shoots waves in Lake Michigan generated by the remnants of Sandy as they crash into the Chicago shoreline on Tuesday. Hide Caption 133 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A police officer helps remove a tree branch brought down during the storm in Washington on Tuesday. Hide Caption 134 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy 11.sandy.damage.1030 – A man takes pictures of cars from the steps of a home on a flooded street at Hoboken in New Jersey, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 135 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A woman wades through water at the South Street Seaport in New York City on Tuesday. Hide Caption 136 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A street light and utility pole lie on the street in Avalon, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 137 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Atlantic City, New Jersey, resident Kim Johnson inspects the area around her flooded apartment building on Tuesday. Hide Caption 138 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A power line knocked over by a falling tree blocks a street in Chevy Chase, Maryland, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 139 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Workers shovel debris from the streets in Ocean City, Maryland, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 140 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A U.S. Coast Guard helicopter flies over Central Park in New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 141 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – A man jogs near a darkened Manhattan skyline on Tuesday after much of New York City lost electricity. Hide Caption 142 of 143 Photos: Photos: Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy Aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – Workers clear a tree blocking East 96th Street in Central Park in New York on Tuesday. View more photos of the recovery efforts in New York. Hide Caption 143 of 143Photos: Sandy floods New York art galleries Photos: Sandy floods New York art galleries Sandy floods New York art galleries – Silas Seandel stands in the back storage unit of his facility after flood waters from the Hudson River damaged several works during Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Sandy floods New York art galleries Sandy floods New York art galleries – A photograph dries at Derek Eller Gallery after being damaged by Sandy flooding. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Sandy floods New York art galleries Sandy floods New York art galleries – Owner Derek Eller stands in his gallery during cleanup efforts after the storm. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Sandy floods New York art galleries Sandy floods New York art galleries – Ongoing construction inside Haunch of Venison, a large gallery in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Sandy floods New York art galleries Sandy floods New York art galleries – Debris stuck to a work by Jaye Moon shows the flood levels Sandy brought to Newman Popiashvili Gallery. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Sandy floods New York art galleries Sandy floods New York art galleries – Gallery owner Leo Koenig stands outside his space during repairs. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Sandy floods New York art galleries Sandy floods New York art galleries – Marisa Newman assesses the flood damage at the Newman Popiashvili Gallery. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Sandy floods New York art galleries Sandy floods New York art galleries – Artist and studio owner Silas Seandel works to restore his facility after floodwaters broke through his doors. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Sandy floods New York art galleries Sandy floods New York art galleries – A watermark in Silas Seandel's storage room shows flood levels from the Hudson River. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Sandy floods New York art galleries Sandy floods New York art galleries – Zach Feuer, temporarily using the floor above his gallery, stands in front of art being salvaged from his space. Hide Caption 10 of 10According to the latest count, Sandy has claimed 110 lives across the Northeastern United States. Next, freezing temperatures, lingering power outages and an incoming low pressure system could make matters worse."Now if the snow comes in heavy, we're cooked," Gissi said.Tuesday morning brought life-threatening cold across the New York metropolitan region, with temperatures dropping into the 20s.Across the entire region hit by Sandy, nearly 9,000 storm survivors spent Monday night in public shelters, the Red Cross told CNN, while others slept in cars or stayed with family or neighbors.Forecasters predict rain will move in early Wednesday and will gradually become heavier, bringing 2- to 4-foot storm surges and up to 45 mph wind gusts. The weather will get worse, CNN meteorologists say, with daytime temperatures hovering in the 40s."Mother Nature is not cooperating, and this will complicate the restoration effort," said John Miksad, Con Edison's senior vice president of electric operations.At night, it could again get down to the 20s, leaving those without shelter in potentially deadly circumstances, while a renewed risk of floods again plagued the region."A lot of these beaches have had their sand eroded" by Sandy, creating flood risks in areas that typically do not have them, said Bloomberg, who ordered all parks, beaches and playgrounds closed by noon Wednesday.More than a week after the storm hit, officials painted a picture of a recovery that left many survivors disappointed. In New Jersey, 566,000 customers were without power, Gov. Chris Christie said."It is like a war zone down there," he said, referring to places such as Mantoloking in Ocean County, where heavy flooding and fires wiped out large sections of the town.At least 20 homes burned to the ground there, mirroring a similar incident in Breezy Point, a neighborhood in Queens New York City, where a cluster of more than 100 houses caught fire during the storm.JUST WATCHED Kelly Ripa gets personal about Sandy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kelly Ripa gets personal about Sandy 01:16Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Friends and members of the Puglia family sift through the remains of their missing home for valuables on November 6, 2012, after Hurricane Sandy hit Staten Island, New York. View photos of New York preparing for Sandy. Hide Caption 1 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A part of a house that floated off its foundation during the storm now sits in the middle of a coastal estuary in the Oakwood Beach area of Staten Island. Hide Caption 2 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – New York City police officers and a resident warm up in front of a fire in a blacked-out area of Oakwood Beach on Staten Island. Hide Caption 3 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A woman looks through a sand covered parking lot used as a donation center on November 5 in the Rockaway neighborhood of the Queens borough of New York City. Hide Caption 4 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Volunteers who call themselves the Broad Channel Police Department help clean a neighbor's damaged house. Hide Caption 5 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People wait in line for food at a distribution center at Coney Island. Hide Caption 6 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A dump truck empties trash collected from homes damaged by Superstorm Sandy on Saturday, November 3, in the Midland Beach neighborhood of Staten Island, New York. New York is trying to clean up and resume normal activities days after the storm hit. Hide Caption 7 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A volunteer places donated clothing in plastic bags to protect it from potential rain at a relief center on Saturday in Midland Beach. Hide Caption 8 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A damaged chair sits on the beach in low-lying Coney Island on Saturday. Hide Caption 9 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A man salvages a set of drums at Rockaway Beach in Queens, New York, on Saturday. Most of the Rockaway Peninsula remains without power. Hide Caption 10 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People gather among debris from Superstorm Sandy and boxes of donated goods on Saturday in Rockaway Beach. Hide Caption 11 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Boats that were swept aground during Sandy sit against homes near a marina on Staten Island on Friday, November 2. Hide Caption 12 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Eddie Liu uses a broom to clean up mud and water from a flooded coin laundry in Coney Island on Friday. Hide Caption 13 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Michelle Dumas hugs her daughter Olivia to warm her up as they wait in an hours-long line for gas at a station Friday on Staten Island. Hide Caption 14 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Men try to clean up the destruction in a flooded deli in Brooklyn, New York, on Friday. Hide Caption 15 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Members of the Traina family on Friday sort through photographs and other personal items from their Staten Island home that was destroyed by Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 16 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – In the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, replacement power utility poles are transported along Old Country Road on Friday in Plainview, New York. Hide Caption 17 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Abandoned and flooded cars are piled up on Friday, November 2, in the heavily damaged Rockaway neighborhood, in Queens, where a large section of a landmark boardwalk was washed away. Hide Caption 18 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Food trucks and men selling bread and cheeses line Broadway at Union Square on Friday in New York as the city recovers from the effects of Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 19 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Debris piles up near the foundations of the iconic boardwalk, which was washed away in the Rockaway neighborhood in Queens. Hide Caption 20 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A man rides his bike through the heavily damaged Rockaway neighborhood. Hide Caption 21 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Matthew Mark Meyer, left, and Annie Barwick, center, sit in a darkened Randolf Beer Restaurant which is using generator power to reopen on Friday in New York City. Hide Caption 22 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People walk through the heavily damaged Rockaway neighborhood. Hide Caption 23 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Commuters pack into a train on Thursday in New York City. Limited public transit has returned to the city, where 14 of 23 subway lines are running. Hide Caption 24 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Commuters ride the subway. Public transit is operating in New York City, but travel times are long, up to five hours in some cases. Hide Caption 25 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A police officer directs passengers waiting on Thursday to board city buses into Manhattan at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn. About 4,000 buses are replacing the subway lines still closed by Superstorm Sandy damage. Hide Caption 26 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Thousands of people wait to board city buses into Manhattan, and some subway lines remain underwater. Getting water out of the tunnels is "one of the main orders of business right now," Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Thursday. Hide Caption 27 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A police officer directs traffic entering the Brooklyn Queens Expressway into Manhattan. Hide Caption 28 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A police officer checks cars entering the Brooklyn Queens Expressway to confirm that they have three occupants before allowing them to cross into Manhattan on Thursday. Limited public transit has returned to New York, and most major bridges have reopened. However, vehicles must have three occupants to pass. Hide Caption 29 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Parts of lower Manhattan are still without electricity on Thursday. Superstorm Sandy, which made landfall along the New Jersey shore on Monday, October 29, left much of the Eastern Seaboard without power, including much of Manhattan south of 34th Street. Hide Caption 30 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Residents of New York City's East Village enjoy a bonfire on Wednesday, October 31. Hide Caption 31 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – East Village residents charge their phones with power from a generator on Wednesday. Hide Caption 32 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Traffic snarls in New York City on Wednesday. Residents and businesses across the Eastern Seaboard are attempting to return to their daily lives in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 33 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A Caring Foundation worker hands out food to residents of the heavily damaged Rockaway section of Queens on Wednesday. Hide Caption 34 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Water floods streets in the Rockaway section of Queens on Wednesday. Hide Caption 35 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Traders stand outside of the New York Stock Exchange in New York on Wednesday. Stocks advanced as U.S. equity markets resumed trading for the first time this week after the storm. Hide Caption 36 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A man surveys damage on Wednesday, October 31, in the Rockaway neighborhood of Queens, New York, where the historic boardwalk was washed away during Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 37 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Residents walk with their belongings through the Rockaway section of Queens on Wednesday. Hide Caption 38 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – The remains of homes burned down in Rockaway are seen Wednesday, a day after an inferno spread across the flooded neighborhood. Hide Caption 39 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Firefighters continued to survey the damage in Rockaway on Wednesday. At least 80 homes were destroyed. Hide Caption 40 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People wait for buses on Sixth Avenue in New York on Wednesday as New Yorkers cope with the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 41 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People attempt to squish into a crowded bus on First Avenue in New York on Wednesday. Hide Caption 42 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Con Edison crew members work on a steam pipe on First Avenue on Wednesday. Hide Caption 43 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – The foundations to the historic Rockaway boardwalk in Brooklyn are all that remain after it was washed away Wednesday during Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 44 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People walk to work Wednesday on a normally busy street near the New York Stock Exchange. Hide Caption 45 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday after it had been closed for two days. Hide Caption 46 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Commuters arrive in Manhattan by ferry from Jersey City, New Jersey, on its first day back in business after Sandy. Hide Caption 47 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – CNN iReporter Jordan Shapiro captured this view of the Williamsburg Bridge in New York at 11 p.m. on Tuesday, October 30. Half of the bridge and Brooklyn is lit, while the Manhattan side and the surrounding part of the island remain shrouded in darkness. Hide Caption 48 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A subway station and escalator sit underwater in New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 49 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Much of the New York City skyline sits in darkness Tuesday evening after damage from Superstorm Sandy knocked out power. About 6.9 million customers are without power in 15 states and the District of Columbia, according to figures compiled by CNN from power companies. Hide Caption 50 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, center, views the damage Tuesday in the Breezy Point neighborhood of Queens, where a fire broke out during Superstorm Sandy and destroyed at least 80 homes. Hide Caption 51 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A resident looks through the debris of his destroyed home in Breezy Point, Queens, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 52 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Burned-out vehicles and destroyed homes line a street in Breezy Point, located on the western end of the Rockaway peninsula in New York. Hide Caption 53 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A fire continues to burn Tuesday in the remains of a structure that was destroyed by the Breezy Point blaze. Hide Caption 54 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A New York City man hands a dog to first responders while being evacuated on Tuesday. Hide Caption 55 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A bartender at the International Bar in the East Village neighborhood of New York City makes drinks in the dark on Tuesday as electricity remains out for many in the city. Hide Caption 56 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Water floods the Plaza Shops in New York, in the wake of Superstorm Sandy, on Tuesday, October 30. Hide Caption 57 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Con Edison employees monitor the drainage of water being pumped out of Seven World Trade Center in the Financial District of New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 58 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Onlookers watch a construction crane dangling from a $1.5 billion luxury high-rise after collapsing in high winds. Hide Caption 59 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – The construction crane dangles from a high-rise in midtown Manhattan. Hide Caption 60 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Ramiro Arcos clears debris from a storm drain in the Financial District of New York after Sandy swept through the city. Hide Caption 61 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – A couple walks in the rain Tuesday, with the East River and the Lower Manhattan skyline as a backdrop. Hide Caption 62 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – The Manhattan skyline remains dark after much of the city lost electricity in the storm. Hide Caption 63 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – Cars float in a flooded below-street-level parking area in the Financial District on Tuesday. Hide Caption 64 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – People take a Tuesday morning walk on the Brooklyn Bridge, which remains closed to traffic after the city awakened to the storm damage. Hide Caption 65 of 66 Photos: Photos: New York recovers from Sandy New York recovers from Sandy – . A car sits crushed by a tree in the Financial District on Tuesday. Photos: New York braces for Sandy Hide Caption 66 of 66Photos: Photos: Weather from space Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – A satellite view of Hurricane Sandy shows the storm at 10:15 a.m. ET on Friday, October 26. Though it was no longer considered a hurricane when it hit the U.S., "post-tropical" Superstorm Sandy packed a hurricane-sized punch. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – The storm is seen from from the International Space Station on October 26. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – A satellite view shows Sandy's position at 2:47 p.m. ET on Saturday, October 27. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – This satellite image shows Sandy at 2:22 p.m. ET on Monday, October 29. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – A satellite image of the Western Hemisphere shows its massive size at 2:22 p.m. on Monday, October 29. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – This satellite image shows Sandy at 2:59 p.m. ET on Monday, October 29. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – Superstorm Sandy officially made landfall Monday evening along the coast of southern New Jersey, the National Hurricane Center reported. This image shows the storm at 7:40 p.m. ET. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – The destruction caused by Superstorm Sandy mounted Tuesday morning as electrical fires and record power outages added to the misery of devastating flooding in the Northeast. This image shows the storm at 9:40 a.m. ET on Tuesday, October 30. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – The Northeast Corridor slowly struggled back to life on Wednesday after the knockout punch from Superstorm Sandy. This image shows the storm at 9:10 a.m. ET on Wednesday, October 31. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – Superstorm Sandy was just a low pressure area at 5 a.m. on Thursday, November 1. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – The eastern U.S. was still coping with the aftermath of Sandy at 8 a.m. on Friday, November 2. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – The Western Hemisphere was relatively calm on Sunday, November 4, at 12:45 a.m. ET. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – This satellite image shows the storm at 11 a.m. on Monday, November 5. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – This satellite image captured at 9:15 a.m. ET on Wednesday, November 7, shows the winter storm. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Photos: Weather from space Weather from space – More than one week after Superstorm Sandy hit, the Northeast prepares for a nor'easter, a strong low pressure system with powerful northeasterly winds coming from the ocean ahead of a storm. This satellite image captured at 11:01 a.m. ET on Friday, November 9, shows the winter storm over the East Coast. See photos of the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 15 of 15Photos: Pets survive Hurricane Sandy Photos: Pets survive Hurricane Sandy Pets survive Hurricane Sandy – One of the adoptable dogs at the ASPCA Adoption Center in New York gets one last walk before Hurricane Sandy strikes. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Pets survive Hurricane Sandy Pets survive Hurricane Sandy – Another dog from the ASPCA Adoption Center gets a windy walk before Hurricane Sandy strikes. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Pets survive Hurricane Sandy Pets survive Hurricane Sandy – An ASPCA veterinary technician cares for a cat at the ASPCA's Bergh Memorial Animal Hospital in New York. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Pets survive Hurricane Sandy Pets survive Hurricane Sandy – Dover, Delaware, evacuee Thomas Kraidy (left) plays with his puppies Kelo and King as relatives Deztin Lankford and Cherokee Lankford look on. They found shelter at pet-friendly Milford Middle School gymnasium in Milford, Delaware. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Pets survive Hurricane Sandy Pets survive Hurricane Sandy – While taking shelter in Cap Henlopen High School hallway, Kathy Florczyk's dog Casey barks from his crate as the Delaware residents wait for Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Pets survive Hurricane Sandy Pets survive Hurricane Sandy – Long Neck, Delaware, resident Kim Levan and her dog Charlie take shelter at Cape Henlopen High School in Lewes, Delaware as Hurricane Sandy approaches. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Pets survive Hurricane Sandy Pets survive Hurricane Sandy – A man and his dogs survey the destruction in South Street Seaport as New Yorkers clean on the morning of Tuesday, October 20, after Hurricane Sandy made landfall the night before. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Pets survive Hurricane Sandy Pets survive Hurricane Sandy – A man pushes a woman and a dog in a boat after their Little Ferry, New Jersey, neighborhood was flooded by Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Pets survive Hurricane Sandy Pets survive Hurricane Sandy – A man being evacuated in New York City hands a dog to first responders in flood waters caused by Hurricane Sandy on October 30, 2012. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Pets survive Hurricane Sandy Pets survive Hurricane Sandy – Evacuees leave after Hurricane Sandy caused major destruction in the Queens borough Breezy Point neighborhood in New York City. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Pets survive Hurricane Sandy Pets survive Hurricane Sandy – Residents of Long Beach, New York, get a look at their streets, covered by debris and beach sand, on Tuesday, October 30, the day after Hurricane Sandy hit. Hide Caption 11 of 11"We don't know what to expect for the flooding situation as the shorelines have been changed," Christie said. "For many of them, the dunes are gone. So moderate flooding under normal conditions become major in these conditions."During the past six days, power has been restored to some 2.1 million customers, he said. But, "2.1 million people with power back doesn't mean a damn to you if you don't have your power back," Christie told reporters . "I want to see that 566,000 number come down to close to a quarter of a million by end of the day today, if we could. That's the goal."New Jersey's largest power provider, PSE&G, said it made a dent in that number Tuesday, restoring power to nearly 90,000 of its customers between 6:30 a.m. and 9:45 p.m. The utility company said it has restored power to about 87% of storm-hit customers so far. "We hope to have 90% of customers restored by tomorrow morning," the company said on its website earlier Tuesday.In New York, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said the number without power across the state Tuesday was 350,000. As many as 20,000 households across New York City and Westchester are not expected to back online by the weekend because of internal electrical damage to their homes, officials said, though Con Edison tweeted Tuesday afternoon that its crews had restored power to 80% of its Westchester customers.And many of those hunkering down in the dark were stocking up on blankets and fueling their generators on Tuesday as the wintry weather moved closer."With this storm coming in, everyone's a little bit nervous," said Kevin King, a 41-year-old Maplewood, New Jersey, resident who was still without power."I've got twin preemies (premature infants) being released from a neonatal care unit and no power," he said. "I can't leave the area right now, I have to stay local."Downed power lines and toppled utility poles still littered Maplewood streets, and King said PSE&G has frustrated residents by constantly shifting timetables of when restoration could be expected."If I knew it was going to be two weeks -- I know that's bad -- but at least you can plan for it," he said.The PATH train between New Jersey and New York restarted limited service under the Hudson River Tuesday, after having been shutdown ahead of the approaching storm last week, while long, slow-moving lines stretched around polling stations across New York City.Elections Commissioner J.C. Polanco called it "an interesting day" after the Board of Elections temporarily relocated or combined some polling locations because of storm damage.But bigger concerns loomed over the incoming nor'easter predicted for later Tuesday, albeit a far less severe storm than Sandy."When it rains, it pours. When it storms, you get more storms," Cuomo said.A nor'easter is a strong low pressure system with powerful northeasterly winds coming from the ocean ahead of a storm."What has compounded the problem has been the quote-unquote 'panic buying,' " Cuomo added, referring to long lines that continue to wrap around gas stations as residents frantically stockpile reserves.In Staten Island, resident Katie Fairley, 25, said people were still sleeping in their cars.She said it felt like Staten Islanders had been forgotten, leaving them largely to fend for themselves."Thank God, we have each other here."