Story highlights Last year, Hurricane Irene flooded Jeff Spangler's Jersey City homeToday, he's dealing with the aftermath of Superstorm SandyLast year, the city's drainage system was the focus of a lawsuit brought on by the EPAWhen Hurricane Irene roared ashore last year, Jeff Spangler was hit hard.The slow-moving storm whipped up a powerful tidal surge that breached sea walls protecting Jersey City, a bedroom Manhattan community, and flooded Spangler's home to the tune of thousands of dollars in damage and months of home repair.This year, it happened again.Superstorm Sandy and its rare mix of converging weather set records as it barreled into the Northeast on October 29 -- but its local effects may not have seemed so rare to Spangler and others who had survived Irene.Just like in 2011, floodwater poured into the low-lying neighborhoods of Jersey City, knocking out power and filling Spangler's basement.Now, the father of three says he's considering cutting his losses and moving out.Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – iReporter Pankaj Purohit lives five minutes from the boardwalk on Essex Street in Jersey City, New Jersey, which began flooding even before Superstorm Sandy's rains came. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – iReporter Jon Ferrari took this photograph Monday afternoon, October 29, in Jersey City showing a fully uprooted tree. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – iReporter Patrick Day snapped this photo from a helicopter while flying over the New Jersey shoreline about four days after Sandy hit. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – FunTown Amusement Pier in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, was washed away. The roller coaster was lost. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – Yards are buried in about 4 feet of sand in Holgate on Long Beach Island. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – A collapsed house near the Barrier Islands. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – Sea Bright residents were not allowed back to their neighborhood on Thursday, November 1, and were told they would not be allowed back for another week or so due to gas leaks. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – On Halloween, residents in Morristown lined up to fill containers with gasoline. While not directly on the coast, Morristown experienced major power outages and some damage from heavy winds and rains brought on by the storm. Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – Eric Nelms was driving to the store in Orange on Tuesday, October 30, when he took this picture. He saw many trees down in his neighborhood, and now that the weather has calmed down, people have begun clearing their yards. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – This panoramic photo from Hoboken was taken Tuesday. iReporter Michael Small was evacuated from Lower Manhattan and went to a stay with a friend in Hoboken. Hoboken flooded, lost power and the waters smelled "like gas and chemicals," he said. He is now back in New York. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – John Swords and his neighbors in Hoboken were limited to one outlet -- powered by their apartment building's generator -- to charge their phones. They were told power would be restored in seven days. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – iReporter Jonathan Otto took this photo from the 14th Street viaduct over the corner of Jefferson and 14th streets in Hoboken on Tuesday. "The Hudson River has turned Hoboken, New Jersey, into one big pond!" he said. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – Residents try to siphon gasoline out of their flooded car to use in a generator on Thursday in Hoboken. Power had still not been restored to most of the city three days after Sandy's storm surge flooded the area. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – Loader buckets were lifted to the second stories and even the attics of homes in Toms River. Victims retrieved were then transferred to the beds of dump trucks to be carried to high ground. Hide Caption 14 of 14JUST WATCHED Sandy victims hit by nor'easter Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sandy victims hit by nor'easter 03:09JUST WATCHED NJ battered by nor'easter after Sandy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NJ battered by nor'easter after Sandy 01:43JUST WATCHED $40 limit on gas, long wait times Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH $40 limit on gas, long wait times 03:15"The more this flooding happens ... the lower property values will sink," Spangler said. "I'll end up being underwater, literally."Like many of his neighbors, Spangler rents out his building's first floor to help to pay his mortgage. Now, his tenants are gone, having left in Sandy's brutal aftermath."Not only are we dealing with repairs, now we're dealing with the loss of rental income and carrying the full mortgage until we can clean up the area," he said.When Sandy unleashed its deadly torrent of wind and water, Spangler and his family rode it out inside their home as river wash leaked through his first floor and raised anxieties about how much higher it would get.A swollen Hudson River had expanded into his backyard. When it finally receded, the flood left an auburn-colored watermark on his basketball hoop backboard.The hoop was about 7 feet tall.Afterward, the dials on his electrical boxes filled with bubbling pockets of a brownish liquid that seemed to foreshadow the string of electrical problems that would follow across the region.Not forgetting the lack of electricity after of Irene, Spangler had prepared for Sandy, purchasing a generator just days before it hit. After the storm, he ran electrical cables across the street to his neighbors' homes, padlocking the generator to his wrought iron stoop out of fear of looting."I'm sure there were people watching and waiting for me not to be near that generator," he said.At the height of the crisis, Spangler said, police and fire officials told him to hide the machine at night because it would take them hours to respond to an incident in his neighborhood." 'We're just overstretched,' " he quoted authorities as saying. That triggered shades of vigilante justice across his neighborhood, though Jersey City police could not be immediately reached for comment regarding the claim."I have neighbors across the street who have firearms who told me, 'Don't worry about it,' " he said. " 'Just call us (if there's a problem) and we'll be right outside with a gun.' "Preparing for lesser disastersSandy triggered massive flooding across the Northeast, yet the effect of the floods may have been especially foul in Jersey City. That's because the city maintains a combined sewer and rain drainage system, meaning floodwater also spewed from pipes, swirled into basements and probably contained raw sewage, according to accounts from local residents and city officials."This happened with Irene too," Jersey City mayoral spokeswoman Jennifer Morrill said. The sewage "couldn't flow out because the water was at its highest capacity. ... So when the water came into (people's basements), it wasn't just water."Red Cross personnel distribute food and supplies to storm-affected residents in Jersey City.But any sewage overflow that occurred was considered minimal, according to the head of Jersey City's Municipal Utilities Authority."Did it occur on an extensive basis? Absolutely not," Dan Becht said.After paying a remediation company to sanitize his basement, Spangler disagreed. He and his neighbors point to the city's antiquated sewer system as a primary culprit."I had to get this whole area disinfected," he said, standing in his basement illuminated by floodlights.Last year, Jersey City's drainage system was the focus of a lawsuit from the Environmental Protection Agency, which said the city failed "to properly operate and maintain its combined sewer system."The city settled the suit in July of last year and pledged to invest more than $52 million in infrastructure repairs and upgrades.And yet those incremental updates may actually miss the bigger point, as many say that little done at the municipal level could have blunted the power Sandy unleashed on the region.The more pressing issue may be how to decipher ways to best protect the city from lesser, more frequent storms, while enlisting federal support for the kind of long-term infrastructure needs that lie ahead."Sandy was to some extent unavoidable," Spangler said. "But Irene was a flood that never should have happened."To rebuild or notThe gas shortages and massive power outages that plagued New Jersey after Sandy and a nor'easter that struck a week later are now starting to dissipate. The state lifted gas rationing orders Monday, and only about 4,000 customers across the state were still without power as of Wednesday. At the height of the storms, more than 3 million customers in New Jersey were without power.Yet restoring power to many of those still in the dark requires inspectors to go door-to-door to check individual electrical panels, to avoid triggering further damage, such as electrical fires.Jeff Spangler works in his basement after losing thousands of dollars worth of property from Superstorm Sandy.Still, the cost of rebuilding is in the billions. And Tad Drouet, 45, said he expects the damage to his Jersey City home after Sandy to be much higher than it was after Irene."Last year, our tab for fixing everything was about $15,000," he said. "This year, it'll be twice that."Others, like Spangler, say they are again shelling out for those home appliances and other items that they expected to buy only once or twice."I just spent money again on a washer-dryer," he said. "I bought one last year too. These are the things you buy and expect to last 10 years."Looming over many of these twice-battered storm victims is a basic question: "How much is enough?"And yet despite the chorus of post-Sandy voices that warn of a recurring rash of inclement weather in the region, others say market forces will still probably absorb the risks tied to waterfront property and prevent a downward price spiral in real estate."There might be temporary blips on the radar," said Gary Malin, president of Citi Habitats, a New York-based real estate firm that specializes in rentals and home sales. "But if history teaches us anything, people always rebuild and they always come back."