Story highlights Long Island Power Authority and Consolidated Edison being investigatedNew York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman's office subpoenaed LIPA and ConEdSource: Office wants to know what they did to prepare and handle aftermathLIPA and ConEd have indicated they will cooperate with the investigationNew York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is investigating whether New York utilities Long Island Power Authority and Consolidated Edison adequately prepared for and responded to Superstorm Sandy, according to a source with knowledge of the investigation.On Wednesday, the attorney general's office subpoenaed LIPA and ConEd requesting information about what they did to brace their systems ahead of the storm and their management in its wake, the source said.The investigation, which began November 5, is examining whether ConEd, as a publicly traded investor-owned utility company, breached the Public Service Law, which requires gas and electric companies to "supply safe and adequate service."Schneiderman's office is questioning whether LIPA, which was created under the Public Authorities law, violated its legal obligations to ensure a safe and dependable flow of electricity.JUST WATCHED Outrage at LIPA for Sandy response Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Outrage at LIPA for Sandy response 03:09Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – David McCue stands near the roof of his beach house, which was completely demolished by Superstorm Sandy, in Ortley Beach, New Jersey, on Sunday, November 25. See photos of the immediate aftermath of Sandy. Hide Caption 1 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Utility workers replace a pole Sunday that was damaged by Superstorm Sandy in Seaside Heights, New Jersey. Hide Caption 2 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Old photographs are laid out to dry on a car hood on Sunday after being removed from a home in Seaside Heights. Hide Caption 3 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Rena McCain cleans out the first floor of her home in Seaside Heights on Sunday. Hide Caption 4 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Little remains of this home in Union Beach, New Jersey, on Tuesday, November 20, after Superstorm Sandy devastated the area. Hide Caption 5 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Wilma Marrero and son Joseph Kendall wait in line about five hours Tuesday for food and other items from a Coney Island distribution point in Brooklyn, New York. Hide Caption 6 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Volunteers on Tuesday remove flooring from a Keansburg, New Jersey, home damaged by the storm. Hide Caption 7 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People walk along a beach in the heavily damaged Rockaway neighborhood in the Queens borough of New York on Friday, November 16. Hide Caption 8 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Amy Neukom works to remove sand from her parents' house in Mantoloking, New Jersey, on Friday -- a result of Superstorm Sandy. Hide Caption 9 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Residents wait for free food in a parking lot in Rockaway on Friday. Hide Caption 10 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – President Barack Obama embraces a local resident on Cedar Grove Avenue during a visit to Staten Island on Thursday, November 15. Hide Caption 11 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People receive free sandwiches from a mobile food distribution center in the Rockaway neighborhood of Queens, New York, on Thursday. Hide Caption 12 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Residents take free clothing Thursday at the Ocean Bay Action Center in Queens. Hide Caption 13 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A tattered U.S. flag flies over the storm-damaged boardwalk in the Rockaway section of Queens on Thursday. Hide Caption 14 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Lisa Baney walks back toward her family's home in Bay Head, New Jersey, after taking a photo of a neighbor's destroyed house Wednesday, November 14. Hide Caption 15 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A living room is filled with sand Wednesday washed in by Superstorm Sandy in Point Pleasant Beach, New Jersey. Two weeks after the storm hit, many residents of the seaside town remain without power. Hide Caption 16 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People wait in line to receive free food from the American Red Cross on Wednesday in the heavily damaged Rockaway neighborhood of Queens, New York. Thousands are still without power and heat. Hide Caption 17 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People walk past a destroyed miniature golf attraction Wednesday in Point Pleasant, New Jersey. Hide Caption 18 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Heavy equipment operator Bill Unger carries photos he salvaged from a mass dump of household possessions on Tuesday in the Midland Beach area of the Staten Island. Unger said he's been collecting the photos as he cleans and taking them to his daughter, who is posting them on Facebook for neighborhood residents to find and later collect. Hide Caption 19 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People wait in line to collect some of the 1,500 donated coats from New York Cares on Tuesday in Queens. The charity started its annual coat drive early this year to assist those affected by Superstorm Sandy. It hopes to collect 200,000 coats this winter. Hide Caption 20 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A woman walks past debris on Rockaway Beach on Tuesday. Hide Caption 21 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A New York police officer jumps over a large crack in a boardwalk in Brooklyn on Wednesday, November 14. The boardwalk was damaged by the storm surge from Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 22 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Insurance claims adjusters walk past burned-out houses Wednesday in the Breezy Point section of Queens, New York. A fire that broke out in the neighborhood during the storm destroyed more than 100 homes. Hide Caption 23 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A family friend of a drowning victim of Superstorm Sandy looks through household debris in New York on Tuesday, November 13. Hide Caption 24 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A man looks through the home of a drowning victim Tuesday. Hide Caption 25 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Children wait to board buses to temporary schools in the Rockaway Beach neighborhood of Queens, New York, on Tuesday. The Rockaways peninsula was hit especially hard when Sandy barreled into the East Coast on October 29, unleashing a record storm surge that flooded low-lying areas and fierce winds that toppled trees and power lines. Hide Caption 26 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A home damaged by Sandy is seen in Union Beach, New Jersey, on Monday, November 12. Hide Caption 27 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A resident of Breezy Point in Queens walks past houses destroyed by fire during Sandy on Monday. Hide Caption 28 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Shoes are set out to dry Monday on the steps of a house in an area that was completely flooded on the south side of Staten Island in New York City. Hide Caption 29 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Dale Freeman stands in his water-damaged apartment in a public housing building that still doesn't have power on Monday in Brooklyn. About 58,000 customers in the Rockaways, Long Island and Brooklyn require more extensive repairs before electricity can be restored. Hide Caption 30 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Residents who returned to their damaged homes line up for a hot meal served from a Red Cross vehicle on Samson Avenue in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, on Monday. Hide Caption 31 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A home damaged by Sandy lists in Mantoloking, New Jersey, on Monday. Hide Caption 32 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – One room has power Monday in Rockaway, where many areas are still without electricity. "If you don't have your power back, it probably means power can't be restored to your home at this time," New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Monday afternoon. Hide Caption 33 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Debris strewen by Superstorm Sandy sits piled outside a damaged home in Mantoloking, New Jersey, on Monday. Hide Caption 34 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People line up to receive donated items from Catholic Charities of Brooklyn and Queens at Visitation of the Blessed Virgin Mary Catholic Church in Brooklyn on Monday. Hide Caption 35 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – People gather for donated food beneath a spotlight in an area still without power on Monday in Rockaway. Hide Caption 36 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – Roofers repair damage Monday on a home in the Annadale neighborhood of Staten Island. Hide Caption 37 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – An SUV sits atop the debris from a home in Mantoloking, New Jersey, on Monday. Hide Caption 38 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A woman makes her way past trash piles in Lower Manhattan on Monday. Hide Caption 39 of 40 Photos: Photos: Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy Long, slow recovery from Superstorm Sandy – A man looks through donated clothes and supplies at nightfall Monday in Rockaway. Hide Caption 40 of 40The attorney general is also studying disclosure statements LIPA made to bondholders regarding the ability of their power systems to weather severe storms, the source said.Elizabeth Flagler, a spokeswoman for LIPA, said in an e-mail to CNN, "We have reviewed the AGs subpoena and intend to comply with it in all respects."Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – iReporter Pankaj Purohit lives five minutes from the boardwalk on Essex Street in Jersey City, New Jersey, which began flooding even before Superstorm Sandy's rains came. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – iReporter Jon Ferrari took this photograph Monday afternoon, October 29, in Jersey City showing a fully uprooted tree. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – iReporter Patrick Day snapped this photo from a helicopter while flying over the New Jersey shoreline about four days after Sandy hit. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – FunTown Amusement Pier in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, was washed away. The roller coaster was lost. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – Yards are buried in about 4 feet of sand in Holgate on Long Beach Island. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – A collapsed house near the Barrier Islands. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – Sea Bright residents were not allowed back to their neighborhood on Thursday, November 1, and were told they would not be allowed back for another week or so due to gas leaks. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – On Halloween, residents in Morristown lined up to fill containers with gasoline. While not directly on the coast, Morristown experienced major power outages and some damage from heavy winds and rains brought on by the storm. Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – Eric Nelms was driving to the store in Orange on Tuesday, October 30, when he took this picture. He saw many trees down in his neighborhood, and now that the weather has calmed down, people have begun clearing their yards. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – This panoramic photo from Hoboken was taken Tuesday. iReporter Michael Small was evacuated from Lower Manhattan and went to a stay with a friend in Hoboken. Hoboken flooded, lost power and the waters smelled "like gas and chemicals," he said. He is now back in New York. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – John Swords and his neighbors in Hoboken were limited to one outlet -- powered by their apartment building's generator -- to charge their phones. They were told power would be restored in seven days. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – iReporter Jonathan Otto took this photo from the 14th Street viaduct over the corner of Jefferson and 14th streets in Hoboken on Tuesday. "The Hudson River has turned Hoboken, New Jersey, into one big pond!" he said. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – Residents try to siphon gasoline out of their flooded car to use in a generator on Thursday in Hoboken. Power had still not been restored to most of the city three days after Sandy's storm surge flooded the area. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: What Sandy did to New Jersey What Sandy did to New Jersey – Loader buckets were lifted to the second stories and even the attics of homes in Toms River. Victims retrieved were then transferred to the beds of dump trucks to be carried to high ground. Hide Caption 14 of 14Joy Faber, a spokeswoman for ConEd, said the company is cooperating with the investigation."We look forward to reviewing the company's storm preparations and response with the Attorney General and all interested parties," she said.On Tuesday, a lawsuit was filed by two residents, claiming LIPA and its partner, National Grid, committed "gross negligence, breach of contract, and fraud," according to attorney Ken Mollins, who is representing the plaintiffs.Also on Tuesday, amidst heavy criticism of his company's handling of the storm, Mike Hervey, chief operating officer of LIPa, said he would resign, effective at the end of the year.