(CNN) "Star Trek" actor George Takei blasted Donald Trump Thursday, calling him "uninformed" and warning against the President-elect's campaign promises to build a database of Muslims in America .Takei referenced his own family's experience of being placed on a registry, and later held for four years in a Japanese prison camp during World War II.Takei told CNN's Carol Costello that he struggled after the election results."For a good number of days, I could not see things with an even balance" he said."And then it's getting to be even more worrisome. The kind of people he's appointing to major Cabinet positions, Jeff Sessions, to head the Department of Justice, when he has a history of racism and he was denied a judgeship because of that history?" he added.Takei said he was particularly disturbed by Trump's campaign promise to build a database of Muslims living in the United States. He's concerned it could lead to the same thing that happened to his family after they were placed on a registry of Japanese Americans and forced to live in a prison camp."My mother was born in Sacramento. My father was from San Francisco. They met and married in Los Angeles. We were born there. Yes, my grandparents came from Japan but they were hard working immigrants who wanted to be American citizens" he explained.Yet, in 1942, after President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed an executive order following the attack on Pearl Harbor, Takei and his family were sent to Rohwer prison camp in Arkansas."We were characterized as the enemy simply because we happened to look like the people that bombed Pearl Harbor," an emotional Takei said."We are three generations here in this country, yet overnight, we became the enemy," he added.Though Takei was only a small child when his family was placed on the registry, his recollection of what happened next is crystal clear."After that registry, they came down with the curfew. We were confined to our homes from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. in the morning, imprisoned in our homes at night. Then they froze our bank accounts. We were economically paralyzed. Then the soldiers came," he told Costello"I remember that morning," said Takei, who was just 5-years-old at the time."I remember the two soldiers walking up our driveway, marching up our driveway, shiny bayonets on the rifle, stopping at the front porch and with their fists started banging on the front door and that sound resonated throughout the house."Now, 75 years after the attack on Pearl Harbor, Takei said the man who will become America's 45th president should learn from the past."It is an echo of what we heard from World War II coming from Trump himself. That sweeping statement characterizing all Muslims. There are more than a billion Muslims in this world. To infer they are all terrorists with that kind of sweeping statement is outrageous, in the same way that they characterized all Japanese Americans as enemy aliens," he said.