Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Just in time for Christmas come the coldest temperatures of the season so far. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. John GlennAstronaut. Senator. Hero. John Glenn, the first American to orbit the Earth, died at age 95. His three orbits of the planet in 1962 aboard the tiny capsule Friendship 7 thrilled a nation worried it was losing to the Russians in the space race. He served in the Senate for more than 20 years, before climbing aboard the shuttle Discovery in 1998 and blasting off again at age 77, becoming the oldest person to go into space. He was the last of the nation's first astronauts2. South KoreaSouth Korean lawmakers have voted to impeach President Park Geun-hye. Her fate's now in the hands of the country's constitutional court, which can take up to six months to decide whether to boot her from office -- if she doesn't resign first. Thousands celebrated the news in the streets. Park's popularity plummeted in the midst of a corruption scandal involving some of her aides and confidantes.3. Donald TrumpThe next President of the United States will have a side gig. Donald Trump will remain executive producer of "Celebrity Apprentice," even after he moves into the White House. That's going to be awkward for NBC, since it will air the show and cover his presidency. No word either on how much Trump will be paid.4. GiraffesA world without giraffes? Horrible to think about, but it could happen . A conservation group now lists the beautiful creatures as "vulnerable." That's because there's been about a 40% decline in giraffe populations the past couple of decades.5. Cold weatherNews alert: It's (almost) winter, and it's cold outside. Over the next week 80% of the country will be below freezing at some point, with frigid temps reaching all the way down to the Gulf Coast this weekend. Brrrrrr. At least this will get you in the mood to get some of that Christmas shopping done.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Quiet timeShopping can be extremely stressful for kids with autism, but stores are helping out with special days that cut down on the crowds and the noiseCulture shockMoving to the motherland can be tough. Just ask the US-born panda twins now living in China. They don't understand trainers' commands and don't like the food.Spy kidsThat cool doll and robot you bought for the kids may be recording them and uploading the files to a tech company with ties to intelligence agencies. Yikes!Bad SantaYoung boy says Santa fat shamed him , telling him to lay off the "hamburger and french fries." Sounds like this Santa deserves some coal in his stocking.Beatdowns are comingA mixed martial arts star is going to be on "Game of Thrones," because the show apparently isn't complicated enough as it is.AND FINALLY ...Winter wonderland