Now you can get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .(CNN) Good Tuesday morning. All the stories below are 100% true. (It's sad that we've reached a point where we even have to add such a disclaimer.) Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .1. Michael Slager trialWe debated leading with that image because some of you will find it disturbing. And you should. It shows ex-South Carolina cop Michael Slager shooting an unarmed, fleeing man - Walter Scott - in the back, from 18 feet away -- on video. A judge declared a mistrial after at least one juror said he wouldn't vote to convict Slager and he wasn't changing his mind.2. Oakland fireThey were musicians and singers, students and artists. And they were all really young. We're learning more about the people who perished in the Ghost Ship fire in Oakland. One traveled to the warehouse to perform. Another was an elementary school teacher. One was just 17.3. Fake news4. Syria civil warRussia and China teamed up to veto a resolution for a week-long ceasefire in Aleppo. The Russians said it wasn't the right time for a vote since talks it's having with the US are making progress. A US official called that line a bunch of bull. Meanwhile, a 7-year-old Aleppo girl who captured the world's attention with her tweets posted a goodbye, saying ' Pray for us .'5. Bill CosbyIt was the deposition that completely turned public opinion against him, and now it will be used against him in court . Bill Cosby's admission that he had affairs and gave women drugs so they'd have sex with him is admissible, a judge ruled.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Going, going, goneThis pic says it all. The populist wave is washing away the jobs and legacies of the leaders in it. Only one -- Germany's Angela Merkel -- remains.From left: British Prime Minister David Cameron, President Obama, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Francois Hollande and Italian Prime Minister Matteo RenziJoe 2020?Veep Joe Biden cracked the door open -- ever so slighting -- to a 2020 presidential run while joking around with reporters during a trip to the Senate.Last laughThe bad internet mocked a cleaner in Saudi Arabia for looking at jewelry. The good internet rallied behind him and showered him with gifts.Otherwise, they're just like usYou don't need it, but here you go. Another way the ultra-rich are different than the rest of us -- on average they own nine homes and 19 carsJust in time for ChristmasAND FINALLY ...How to grocery shop with a baby