Story highlights A winter storm warning is in effect in portions of Maine and New HampshireTen inches of snow predicted in the interior regions of Maine, the weather service saysThere are six storm-related deaths in Kansas and one in OklahomaA snow emergency has been declared in MilwaukeeIt was a winter weather tale as old as, well, modern time: car vs. the snow plow."There's our friend and our nemesis, the plow. Ugh," said David Bradley, whose car was buried Wednesday by a plow clearing streets in Toronto.Forty-five minutes later, he was still trying to dig out his car from a fierce snowstorm that paralyzed parts of the United States and Canada, leaving hundreds of thousands without power and stranding thousands more.Similar scenes were playing from Wisconsin to Michigan, from Kansas to Texas, as thousands began digging out from a storm that began Sunday as a blizzard in the Great Plains.By Wednesday, it was a significant snowmaker over the Midwest and New England, causing headaches for some commuters.JUST WATCHED Millions in Midwest clean up after storm Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Millions in Midwest clean up after storm 01:47JUST WATCHED 'Thundersnow' caught on video Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Thundersnow' caught on video 00:55Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains – Southwest Airlines employees guide a plane into the gate at Midway International Airport in Chicago on Tuesday, February 26. Back-to-back storms have hit the Great Plains, which is still digging out from last week's weather. Are you experiencing the storm? If it's safe, share your photos Hide Caption 1 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – City worker Thuan Tran and police officer Christina Batalia help dig out stranded motorist Gary Cook after the area was hit by a snowstorm on February 26 in Overland Park, Kansas. Hide Caption 2 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Wet snow hangs on branches on February 26 in Merriam, Kansas. Hide Caption 3 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Milk shelves are nearly empty at a Kansas City, Missouri, grocery store on February 26, after a snowstorm batters the area again. Hide Caption 4 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Heavy snow covers street signs in Kansas City, Missouri, on February 26. Hide Caption 5 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Tree branches are covered in snow on February 26 in Kansas City, Missouri. Hide Caption 6 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Motorists head home on U.S. 69 on Monday, February 25, in Overland Park, Kansas, during the snowstorm. Hide Caption 7 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – About 5 feet of snow piles up February 25 outside CNN iReporter Matthew West's back porch in Canyon Texas, covering up his son's tricycle. Hide Caption 8 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Alan Daniels loads salt trucks at the Overland, Kansas, Park Public Works Department on February 25. Hide Caption 9 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – The "Keeper of the Plains" statue is blanketed with snow in Wichita, Kansas, on February 25. Hide Caption 10 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – A resident shovels snow as the wind cuts down on visibility during a winter storm in Denver on Sunday, February 24. Hide Caption 11 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Bicycles gather snow during a storm in Denver on February 24. Hide Caption 12 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Twelve to 14 inches of snow fell in northeastern Kansas on Thursday, February 21. However, on Friday, February 22, the sun was out, and this street had been cleared, but many were not. Neighbors worked to clear their driveways while the kids enjoyed playing the deepest snow many of them had ever experienced. Hide Caption 13 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Jackie Arrandondo, 19, is covered with morning snow from head to toe as she waits for a city bus Friday, in Minneapolis. Gusty winds and iced-over roadways made for treacherous Midwest travel Friday as a major winter storm headed east over the Great Lakes. Two deaths have been linked to the storm, including one in a fatal traffic accident in Minnesota. Hide Caption 14 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Shawn Noble skis to work after a winter storm left more than 6 inches of snow on February 22 in Iowa City, Iowa. Hide Caption 15 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Tow truck driver Tyson House helps trucker Gary Wheeler of Kansas City on Friday, February 22, in Greensburg, Kansas, after his truck slid off the road. The huge snowstorm was moving across the Plains on Thursday. Hide Caption 16 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – A worker uses a snowblower to clear a path on February 22 in Greensburg, Kansas. Hide Caption 17 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Tow truck drivers aid a semi on February 22 in Greensburg, Kansas. Hide Caption 18 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – A car is stranded in the snow on Highway 135 outside Wichita, Kansas, on Thursday, February 21. Hide Caption 19 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Vehicles drive in single file down Highway 135 outside Wichita on Thursday. Hide Caption 20 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Mark Russell, right, vice president of rules and competition for the PGA Tour, talks with Thorbjorn Olesen of Denmark as snow and rain suspend play during the first round of the World Golf Championships in Marana, Arizona, on Wednesday, February 20. Hide Caption 21 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Snow covers this cactus during the first round of the World Golf Championships at the Golf Club at Dove Mountain in Marana, Arizona, on February 20. Hide Caption 22 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Pedestrians make their way to work through the snow in downtown Wichita, Kansas, on Wednesday, February 20. Hide Caption 23 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Police take care of an accident in Wichita on Wednesday. Hide Caption 24 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Golf fans seek shelter from the snow Wednesday after the first round of the Accenture Match Play Championship at Dove Mountain in Marana, Arizona. The tournament was suspended due to the weather. Hide Caption 25 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Snow covers the driving range at Dove Mountain on Wednesday. Hide Caption 26 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Snow covers the clubhouse behind the 18th green during the first round of the tournament at Dove Mountain on Wednesday. Hide Caption 27 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Snow collects around golf balls on the practice putting green on Wednesday. Hide Caption 28 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Golf spectators look for cover as snow comes down. Hide Caption 29 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – David Viana of the Real Salt Lake soccer team heads the ball against the New England Revolution during the snowfall on Wednesday in Tucson, Arizona. Hide Caption 30 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Brad Evans of the Seattle Sounders dribbles the ball while playing the New York Red Bulls in Tucson on Wednesday. Hide Caption 31 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Snow blankets Yucca Valley, California, an area that rarely sees snow, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 32 of 33 Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – The sun shines on the fresh snow in Yucca Valley on Wednesday. Hide Caption 33 of 33JUST WATCHED Unexpected side effects of a blizzard Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Unexpected side effects of a blizzard 01:38JUST WATCHED Keeping healthy in cold weather Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Keeping healthy in cold weather 01:23Deaths and destructionThe storm's toll was still being tallied in deaths and damage as remnants of the storm hit portions of New Hampshire and Maine early Thursday morning.A winter storm warning was in effect until 5 p.m. ET, with up to 10 inches of snow in the interior regions of Maine and eastern New Hampshire, according to the National Weather Service.As it marched on, officials said at least seven people were killed.In hard-hit Kansas, there were at least six storm-related deaths: two siblings who died of carbon monoxide poisoning from a generator, three people in fatal vehicle accidents and an elderly woman who died of hypothermia sweeping snow off her steps, Gov. Sam Brownback said.A seventh person died when a roof collapsed in hard-hit Woodward, Oklahoma, Mayor Roscoe Hill said.At the height of the storm, about 100,000 Kansas City Power and Light customers were without power, the company said. But Wednesday, roughly 10,000 were without power.A snow emergency was declared in Milwaukee through Thursday morning to keep cars from parking on zones where snow plows and emergency vehicles take priority. Up to 17 inches of snow fell in portions of Milwaukee.In the dark, Simon Alcarac was shoveling snow, trying to meet Milwaukee's 11 p.m. deadline to move his car to a nearby elementary school parking lot or face a hefty tow bill from the city."I prefer to go walk two blocks, three blocks than pay $200 to get it out" of impound, he told CNN affiliate WTMJ-TV.A number of school districts, senior centers and churches in New Hampshire and Maine were closed Thursday, while some school districts in Kansas, Illinois and Michigan remained closed.Travel troublesAirlines were rebooking passengers in Chicago late Wednesday after the snow forced the delay or cancellation of more than 100 flights, according to the airport.The storm was making itself felt on air travel in the Northeast on Wednesday evening, where airports in Boston, New York, New Jersey and Philadelphia were all showing delays. At LaGuardia Airport in New York, the FAA said departing flights were delayed by as much as an hour and 28 minutes.Airlines called off about 500 U.S. flights Wednesday, according to flight tracking website FlightAware.com . The website doesn't distinguish, however, the reason for each cancellation.Cleaning upIn Chicago, Willie Johnson advised caution when clearing heavy, wet snow off sidewalks and driveways."Take your time because this kind of snow they call heart-attack makers," he told CNN affiliate WLS-TV. "I mean, it will kill you."Others left the shoveling for later, opting instead to break out the sleds."I love it," said John Harris, grinning from ear to ear in his Notre Dame stocking cap. "This is Chicago. This is what it should be like."In Texas, some people had to resort to unconventional tools to get the job done. CNN iReporter Julie Swift of Plainview, Texas -- where 2 or 3 inches fell -- said she used a plastic school chair."The guy was shoveling next door for an older lady. I thought he had a real shovel," she said. "But he had a lid to a big plastic tub. That was funny."Outside Bradley's Toronto house, the din of shovel hitting concrete broke the early morning quiet."I have not made tremendous progress," said Bradley, an elementary school hall monitor. "I'm almost to my car."