Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Sean McCullough, left, plays with his children in Copley Square in Boston on Sunday, February 10, following a powerful blizzard. The storm dumped more than two feet of snow in parts of New England. Hide Caption 1 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man walks by a storefront behind large snowdrifts on Boylston Street in Boston on February 10. Hide Caption 2 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman walks past a man clearing snow from a sidewalk on February 10 in Boston. Hide Caption 3 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man walks past snow banks in the Back Bay neighborhood on February 10 in Boston. Hide Caption 4 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snowmen made from backstage lamps, paper rolls and water bottle caps stand outside the rest area during Fashion Week in New York on February 10. Hide Caption 5 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow blankets Copley Square on Saturday, February 9, in Boston. Hide Caption 6 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People walk and sled through a snowy Prospect Park in Brooklyn, New York, on Saturday. Hide Caption 7 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People attempt to push a stuck vehicle in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 8 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A boy pulls a sled through a snowy Prospect Park in Brooklyn on Saturday. Hide Caption 9 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A boy snowboards in Boston Common on Saturday. Hide Caption 10 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People play in the snow in New York's Central Park on Saturday. Hide Caption 11 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A young woman jumps down from snow piled in front of the Massachusetts State House after posing for a photo in Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 12 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man walks along a snow-covered trail in Central Park on Saturday. Hide Caption 13 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A child tubes down snow-covered stairs in Central Park on Saturday. Hide Caption 14 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Emmet's on Beacon Street is covered in snow in Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 15 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A front loader and truck drive down Warren Street in the Brighton neighborhood on Saturday in Boston. Hide Caption 16 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People walk along the Brooklyn Bridge following a major winter storm on Saturday in New York City. Possible record-setting blizzard conditions are expected with heavy snow warnings in effect from New Jersey through southern Maine. Hide Caption 17 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – The sculpture "Double Check" by John Seward Johnson II is seen in Zuccotti Park following a major winter storm on Saturday in New York City on Saturday. Hide Caption 18 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People walk along a street devoid of snow due to ocean flooding Saturday in Winthrop, Massachusetts. Coastal flooding is expected as the storm lingers into the day. Hide Caption 19 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A person walks through the snow in an alley in Hoboken, New Jersey, on Saturday. Hide Caption 20 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Children carry a sled through the Financial District in New York City on Saturday. Hide Caption 21 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Saniyyah Phillips, 8, scrapes the snow off of the top of her father's car in the Brighton neighborhood of Boston on Friday. Hide Caption 22 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow covers a sidewalk and building awning in Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 23 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Josephine Sipayung and her son Eric, 6, sled down an empty street past snow-covered vehicles in Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 24 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow-covered vehicles sit on Commonwealth Avenue in the Brighton neighborhood of Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 25 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A worker carries a snow shovel across the Ground Zero construction sight on Saturday in New York. Hide Caption 26 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman walks through the snow as a worker clears snow from a sidewalk in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston. Hide Caption 27 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow gathers on shoes hung from power lines in the Lower East Side of New York City. Hide Caption 28 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Mary Leahy shovels her sidewalk in Medford, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 29 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Paul DeCarlo uses a snow blower to clear the walk in front of his house in Greenfield, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 30 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man walks through snowy Central Park in New York. Hide Caption 31 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Mike Streeter shovels snow in his front yard as ocean water crashes over the sea wall just feet away on February 9 in Winthrop, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 32 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A pair of cows feed in the snow at Eden Pond Farm in Leyden, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 33 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A child drags his toboggan up a hill in Central Park. Hide Caption 34 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman walks in Boston on Saturday. Hide Caption 35 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Phoebe Lightburn, 9, makes a snow angel in Central Park in New York. Hide Caption 36 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man shovels snow along Winthrop Shore Drive in Winthrop, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 37 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A cyclist rides through the snow in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston. Hide Caption 38 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow blankets Boston on February 9. Hide Caption 39 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Pedestrians shield themselves from blowing snow as a blizzard arrives in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston on Friday, February 8. Hide Caption 40 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Two women look for a taxi in snow-covered Times Square on February 8. Hide Caption 41 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A food vendor stands under his cart as snow falls in Times Square. Hide Caption 42 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man shovels snow in front of the Apple store in New York on February 8. Hide Caption 43 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People wait for a taxi in the snow in Times Square. Hide Caption 44 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A pedestrian makes his way through driving snow with a broken umbrella in the Back Bay neighborhood on Friday, February 8 in Boston. Hide Caption 45 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A fashion week attendee makes her way through the snow in high-heeled shoes on Friday. Hide Caption 46 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow is cleared in front of Boston Public Library on Friday. Hide Caption 47 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – New York City residents cross a street covered in slush on Friday during a storm affecting the Northeast on Friday. Hide Caption 48 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman walks through the snow past Copley Square on Friday in Boston. Massachusetts and other states from New York to Maine are preparing for a major blizzard with possible record amounts of snowfall in some areas. Hide Caption 49 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A snowplow sits on the street while snow falls near Boston Common on Friday. Hide Caption 50 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People walk through Times Square as a major winter storm moves in on Friday. Hide Caption 51 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A snowman sits on the duck pond in the Boston Common. Hide Caption 52 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman hails a taxi as snow and freezing rain fall over Midtown Manhattan as the city braced for the major storm on Friday. Hide Caption 53 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man operates a snow blower in the Back Bay neighborhood on Friday in Boston. Hide Caption 54 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Memorial Drive sits empty following a driving ban and state of emergency that was issued in Boston on Friday. Hide Caption 55 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Pedestrians battle wind, snow and sleet in Manhattan on Friday. Hide Caption 56 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People walk through the snow in Boston's Back Bay neighborhood on Friday. Hide Caption 57 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Bicyclists wait at a light in wind, snow and sleet on Friday. Hide Caption 58 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – This umbrella doesn't stand a chance in the wind-driven snow Friday in Boston as a potentially historic winter storm closes in on the Northeast , especially New England. Hide Caption 59 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Jeannine Strampel walks through the snow past a statue of Alexander Hamilton along Commonwealth Avenue Mall on February 8. Hide Caption 60 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Jerry Trebino loads sand onto the back of a snowplow February 8 in Wrentham, Massachusetts. The storm is expected to spawn travel headaches for a large swath of the region. Hide Caption 61 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman battles her way to the subway in Boston on February 8. Hide Caption 62 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Skiing seems like a good idea as snow begins to fall in Boston on February 8. Hide Caption 63 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman struggles with her umbrella in New York's Financial District on February 8. Accumulations of up to a foot of snow are expected in the Big Apple. Hide Caption 64 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Ines Cuadrado, left, and Anne Levine trek along a snow-covered road in Middlefield, Connecticut, on February 8. Hide Caption 65 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Alfie Times shovels snow from the sidewalk outside the XL Center in Hartford, Connecticut, on February 8. Hide Caption 66 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Ricky Varona copes with the wind and precipitation February 8 in New York. Hide Caption 67 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Tourists brave the high winds in New York's Financial District on February 8. Hide Caption 68 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A sweeper clears snow in front of the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week tents on February 8 at Lincoln Center in New York. Hide Caption 69 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man walks along the promenade in Brooklyn Heights as Lower Manhattan stands in a cloud of snow and sleet in the early hours of a major winter storm on February 8. Hide Caption 70 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A man walks across the Brooklyn Bridge in the snow and sleet on February 8. Hide Caption 71 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Cars are lined up outside a gas station in Queens borough of New York on February 8. Hide Caption 72 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A sign bears bad news on a fuel pump in Manhasset, New York, on February 8. Hide Caption 73 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman tries to shield herself from wind and precipitation as the beginnings of a large winter storm hits the New York area on February 8. Hide Caption 74 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Snow falls over Lower Manhattan in the early hours of a major winter storm on February 8. Hide Caption 75 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A woman tries to right her umbrella while dealing with wind and precipitation in New York on February 8. Hide Caption 76 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – Two people carefully walk across the Brooklyn Bridge in the snow and sleet on February 8. Hide Caption 77 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – A satellite image released by the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration on February 8, shows a large storm over the Northeastern United States. Hide Caption 78 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard Northeast blizzard – People walk through the blowing snow while a blizzard arrives in the Back Bay neighborhood on February 8 in Boston. Hide Caption 79 of 81Photos: Photos: Northeast blizzard `Northeast blizzard – A man operates a snowblower while a blizzard arrives in the Back Bay neighborhood in Boston on February 8. Hide Caption 80 of 81