Story highlights Cecil Hotel is featured in "Hotel Horrors & Main Street Vice" tour"It's the place where serial killers stay," a tour guide saysSerial killers Richard Ramirez and Jack Unterweger stayed there while on spreesIt was known for suicide jumpers in the 1950s, '60s, guide saysThe Cecil Hotel's dark past earned it a spot on Los Angeles tours long before a woman's body was found inside its rooftop water tank."It's the place where serial killers stay," said tour guide Richard Schave.Schave and his wife, Kim Cooper, conduct a "true crime and oddities" tour they call "Hotel Horrors & Main Street Vice."The new mystery surrounding Elisa Lam's death will be added to Cooper's spiel during the tour stops at the Cecil Hotel, she said.Cooper and Schave have made it their job to compile details on those who have killed or been killed while staying at the Cecil.Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Body found in hotel water tank – Firefighters work to remove a body found inside a water tank on the rooftop of the Cecil Hotel in Los Angeles on Tuesday, February 19. A young woman's body had likely been decomposing for more than two weeks, police said. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Body found in hotel water tank – A team works to remove the body. The body of Elisa Lam, 21, of Vancouver, Canada was found in the Cecil Hotel's rooftop water tank by a maintenance worker who was trying to figure out why the water pressure was low on Tuesday. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Body found in hotel water tank – Authorities stand on the rooftop of the hotel as the recovery continues. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Body found in hotel water tank – It was not clear whether the water presented any health risks to those who drank it. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Body found in hotel water tank – Firefighters leave the Cecil Hotel after removing the body. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Body found in hotel water tank – Lam is shown in this undated image released by the Los Angeles Police Department. Lam's parents reported her missing in early February and the last sighting of her was in the hotel on January 31, according to police. Hide Caption 6 of 6Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Body found in hotel water tank – Firefighters work to remove a body found inside a water tank on the rooftop of the Cecil Hotel in Los Angeles on Tuesday, February 19. A young woman's body had likely been decomposing for more than two weeks, police said. Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Body found in hotel water tank – A team works to remove the body. The body of Elisa Lam, 21, of Vancouver, Canada was found in the Cecil Hotel's rooftop water tank by a maintenance worker who was trying to figure out why the water pressure was low on Tuesday. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Body found in hotel water tank – Authorities stand on the rooftop of the hotel as the recovery continues. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Body found in hotel water tank – It was not clear whether the water presented any health risks to those who drank it. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Body found in hotel water tank – Firefighters leave the Cecil Hotel after removing the body. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Photos: Body found in hotel water tank Body found in hotel water tank – Lam is shown in this undated image released by the Los Angeles Police Department. Lam's parents reported her missing in early February and the last sighting of her was in the hotel on January 31, according to police. Hide Caption 6 of 6JUST WATCHED Chlorine used after body found in water Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chlorine used after body found in water 02:42JUST WATCHED Woman's body found in hotel's water tank Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman's body found in hotel's water tank 01:56The killersThe most famous on their list are serial killers Richard Ramirez and Jack Unterweger.Ramirez, known as the "Nightstalker," now resides on California's death row, but in 1985 he was living on the Cecil's top floor in a $14 a night room, Cooper said.The Cecil, filled then with hundreds of transients living in the cheap rooms, was a good place for Ramirez to go unnoticed as he killed 13 women, Schave said. He was "just dumping his bloody clothes in the Dumpster at the end of his evening and going in the back entrance."Jack Unterweger worked as a journalist covering Los Angeles crime for an Austrian magazine in 1991 when he moved into the Cecil."We believe he was living at the Cecil in homage to Ramirez," Schave said.He is blamed with killing three prostitutes in Los Angeles while a guest at the Cecil.The killedDuring the 1950s and 1960s, the Cecil had a reputation as a place where people would kill themselves by jumping out upper-floor windows, Cooper said. "It's just what people do when they are at the end of their rope," she said.Helen Gurnee, in her 50s, leaped from a seventh floor window, landing on the Cecil Hotel marquee on October 22, 1954, Cooper said.Julia Moore jumped from her eighth floor room window on February 11, 1962, she said. Moore left behind a bus ticket from St Louis, 59 cents and an Illinois bank account book showing a balance of $1,800.Pauline Otton, 27, jumped from a ninth floor window after an argument with her estranged husband on October 12, 1962, Cooper said. Otton landed on George Gianinni, 65, who was walking on the sidewalk 90 feet below. Both were killed instantly.Not everyone on Cooper's list committed suicide."Pigeon Goldie" Osgood, a retired telephone operator, was found dead in her ransacked room on June 4, 1964, Cooper said. Osgood, known for protecting and feeding the pigeons at nearby Pershing Square, was stabbed, strangled and raped. The crime has not been solved.Not an ordinary hotelSchave and Cooper have theories about why the Cecil's past has been so sordid.It was built in the 1920s as a hotel "for businessmen to come into town and spend a night or two," Cooper said.But it was soon upstaged by nicer hotels in a better part of town, she said. When the Great Depression hit in the 1930s, it became more of a transient hotel. Eventually, it transitioned into a single room occupancy business, known as an SRO. Long-term tenants rented individual rooms and shared bathrooms with neighboring residents."This was just a place where people who were really down on their luck were going," Schave said. "These hotels are filled with people who are at the edge of being integrated in society."During the 1970s, '80s and '90s, hundreds of people who were "down on their luck" called the Cecil home, he said. "They were all hustling to make ends meet.""It's not like that any more, of course," Cooper said.New owners converted three of the floors back to hotel rooms around 2007, but most of the building remains SRO, Schave said.Another section serves as a hostel that is marketed toward European tourists, he saidIt was not clear if Lam was staying in one of the hotel rooms, which offer more privacy, or the hostel.Repeated calls by CNN to the Cecil Hotel management were not returned Wednesday and Thursday.