Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains – Southwest Airlines employees guide a plane into the gate at Midway International Airport in Chicago on Tuesday, February 26. Back-to-back storms have hit the Great Plains, which is still digging out from last week's weather. Are you experiencing the storm? If it's safe, share your photos Hide Caption 1 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – City worker Thuan Tran and police officer Christina Batalia help dig out stranded motorist Gary Cook after the area was hit by a snowstorm on February 26 in Overland Park, Kansas. Hide Caption 2 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Wet snow hangs on branches on February 26 in Merriam, Kansas. Hide Caption 3 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Milk shelves are nearly empty at a Kansas City, Missouri, grocery store on February 26, after a snowstorm batters the area again. Hide Caption 4 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Heavy snow covers street signs in Kansas City, Missouri, on February 26. Hide Caption 5 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Tree branches are covered in snow on February 26 in Kansas City, Missouri. Hide Caption 6 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Motorists head home on U.S. 69 on Monday, February 25, in Overland Park, Kansas, during the snowstorm. Hide Caption 7 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – About 5 feet of snow piles up February 25 outside CNN iReporter Matthew West's back porch in Canyon Texas, covering up his son's tricycle. Hide Caption 8 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Alan Daniels loads salt trucks at the Overland, Kansas, Park Public Works Department on February 25. Hide Caption 9 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – The "Keeper of the Plains" statue is blanketed with snow in Wichita, Kansas, on February 25. Hide Caption 10 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – A resident shovels snow as the wind cuts down on visibility during a winter storm in Denver on Sunday, February 24. Hide Caption 11 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Bicycles gather snow during a storm in Denver on February 24. Hide Caption 12 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Twelve to 14 inches of snow fell in northeastern Kansas on Thursday, February 21. However, on Friday, February 22, the sun was out, and this street had been cleared, but many were not. Neighbors worked to clear their driveways while the kids enjoyed playing the deepest snow many of them had ever experienced. Hide Caption 13 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Jackie Arrandondo, 19, is covered with morning snow from head to toe as she waits for a city bus Friday, in Minneapolis. Gusty winds and iced-over roadways made for treacherous Midwest travel Friday as a major winter storm headed east over the Great Lakes. Two deaths have been linked to the storm, including one in a fatal traffic accident in Minnesota. Hide Caption 14 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Shawn Noble skis to work after a winter storm left more than 6 inches of snow on February 22 in Iowa City, Iowa. Hide Caption 15 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Tow truck driver Tyson House helps trucker Gary Wheeler of Kansas City on Friday, February 22, in Greensburg, Kansas, after his truck slid off the road. The huge snowstorm was moving across the Plains on Thursday. Hide Caption 16 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – A worker uses a snowblower to clear a path on February 22 in Greensburg, Kansas. Hide Caption 17 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Tow truck drivers aid a semi on February 22 in Greensburg, Kansas. Hide Caption 18 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – A car is stranded in the snow on Highway 135 outside Wichita, Kansas, on Thursday, February 21. Hide Caption 19 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Vehicles drive in single file down Highway 135 outside Wichita on Thursday. Hide Caption 20 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Mark Russell, right, vice president of rules and competition for the PGA Tour, talks with Thorbjorn Olesen of Denmark as snow and rain suspend play during the first round of the World Golf Championships in Marana, Arizona, on Wednesday, February 20. Hide Caption 21 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Snow covers this cactus during the first round of the World Golf Championships at the Golf Club at Dove Mountain in Marana, Arizona, on February 20. Hide Caption 22 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Pedestrians make their way to work through the snow in downtown Wichita, Kansas, on Wednesday, February 20. Hide Caption 23 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Police take care of an accident in Wichita on Wednesday. Hide Caption 24 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Golf fans seek shelter from the snow Wednesday after the first round of the Accenture Match Play Championship at Dove Mountain in Marana, Arizona. The tournament was suspended due to the weather. Hide Caption 25 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Snow covers the driving range at Dove Mountain on Wednesday. Hide Caption 26 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Snow covers the clubhouse behind the 18th green during the first round of the tournament at Dove Mountain on Wednesday. Hide Caption 27 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Snow collects around golf balls on the practice putting green on Wednesday. Hide Caption 28 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Golf spectators look for cover as snow comes down. Hide Caption 29 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – David Viana of the Real Salt Lake soccer team heads the ball against the New England Revolution during the snowfall on Wednesday in Tucson, Arizona. Hide Caption 30 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Brad Evans of the Seattle Sounders dribbles the ball while playing the New York Red Bulls in Tucson on Wednesday. Hide Caption 31 of 33Photos: Photos: Snowstorm hits the Plains Snowstorm hits the Plains – Snow blankets Yucca Valley, California, an area that rarely sees snow, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 32 of 33