Story highlights Similarities but important difference between the L.A. manhunt and the D.C. sniper caseSuspected L.A. gunman is targeting cops and their families; D.C. sniper victims were randomBoth the L.A. suspect and the lead D.C. sniper were military veterans, trained marksmenFor those who worked the Beltway sniper case in Washington a little more than a decade ago, the manhunt for a highly trained gunman suspected of targeting cops and their families in Southern California has some startling similarities and clear differences as well.In the California case, the mood is tense among police officers as they continue the search for Christopher Dorner, who is suspected of killing three people to settle a score for what he called an unjust firing from the Los Angeles Police Department.Similar fear gripped the Washington-area for nearly a month in October 2002, when John Allen Muhammad and Lee Boyd Malvo terrorized the city and its suburbs during the sniper case.They operated out of an old sedan, firing from a hole in the trunk, and struck in broad daylight and at night.They randomly gunned down 13 people, killing 10 and wounding three, going about their daily routine -- never suspecting for a second that they were in the sights of a killer.They were each felled by a rifle shot while at a gas station, doing yard work, going to school, or heading into a shopping center.Police bulletins, road blocks, and false leads and sightings around the notorious shootings fueled drama and tension in a region already on edge over the drumbeat of threats of another al Qaeda attack on the capital.Police were methodical and eventually caught a break, arresting the pair at a rest stop in Maryland.JUST WATCHED College friend of accused cop killer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH College friend of accused cop killer 02:58JUST WATCHED Inside the mind of an alleged killer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Inside the mind of an alleged killer 05:26Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Photos: Manhunt for Christopher Dorner – Detectives investigate the scene where officers fired on a vehicle they believed was Christopher Dorner's on February 7, in Torrance, California. Two people in the truck were wounded. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – An employee of Southern California Edison surveys the damage at the burned-out cabin where the remains of multiple-murder suspect and former Los Angeles Police Department officer Christopher Dorner were found on Friday, February 15, in Big Bear, California. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – A statue of an angel stands on a wood column in front of the burned cabin on February 15. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – An evidence flag placed by San Bernardino County Sheriff's crime scene investigators sits on pile of rubble in the burned cabin on February 15. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Cindy Bachman, public information officer for the San Bernardino Sheriff's Department, updates the media after a standoff and a shootout with Dorner on Tuesday, February 12. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Police search cars at a blockade as they come down off the mountain during a manhunt for Dorner on February 12. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Cindy Bachman, information officers for the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department, speaks to reporters at a roadblock near Big Bear Lake, California, on Tuesday, February 12. Christopher Jordan Dorner has been the subject of a massive manhunt and is accused of killing one police officer and wounding two others, as well as killing the daughter of his police union representative and her fiance on Sunday. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Authorities take positions during the manhunt for former LAPD officer Christopher Jordan Dorner near the town of Angelus Oaks, California, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – San Bernardino County Sheriff SWAT team members return to the command post at Bear Mountain in Big Bear Lake, California, on Friday, February 8, after heavy snow hindered the manhunt for ex-LAPD cop Christopher Jordan Dorner. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Officers keep watch outside of the Twin Towers Jail in response to an unconfirmed sighting of Dorner in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Officers investigate the burned out truck of Christopher Jordan Dorner that was discovered at the base of Bear Mountain Ski Resort in Big Bear Lake, California, on Thursday, February 7. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Department of Homeland Security officers search vehicles at the San Ysidro Port of Entry in San Diego on February 7 as they search for former LAPD officer Christopher Dorner. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck speaks at a press conference about the manhunt for Dorner as photos of the suspect stand in the background on February 7. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – An illuminated sign at San Diego State University along Interstate 8 displays information about Dorner's last known vehicle on February 7. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – San Diego Harbor Police officers near Naval Base Point Loma armed with high-powered firearms walk along a street on February 7 in San Diego. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Investigators inspect a bullet-ridden squad car where a police officer was shot on Magnolia Avenue in Corona, California on February 7. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Police stand guard near a LAPD car where a police officer was shot on Magnolia Avenue as officers across the state remain on high alert. Hide Caption 17 of 17- It involves a manhunt originating in a major metropolitan area with reported sightings in different communities raising fears.- The case involves multiple victims in multiple attacks.- Dorner was in the Navy and served in the Persian Gulf. Muhammad, who was executed in 2009, was in the Army and also served in the Gulf region, many years before.- Dorner is a trained marksman as was Muhammad.- Schools in some areas where California searches are concentrated are closed. In the sniper case, outdoor public events were canceled.But differences between the two cases are clearer and, in some ways, should set the broader public at ease, say former detectives, law enforcement officials and a forensic psychiatrist familiar with both cases."During the D.C. sniper shooting the public had no idea who was doing it. ... The public saw this as random victimization without rhyme or reason," said Park Dietz, a forensic psychiatrist.Dietz worked on the Washington sniper case as well as the "Unabomber" mail-bomb case."In contrast, in the California matter, the public understands his targets are much more focused. They consist of certain named individuals and their families," he said.Dorner, 33, is wanted in the killing of two people in Irvine, California, on Sunday and in the shooting of three Los Angeles-area police officers on Thursday, which killed one of them. One of the victims in Irvine was the daughter of a retired Los Angeles police officer who Dorner knows, authorities said.The technical details of the California case may differ, but the level of fear people feel as they listen to accounts of the manhunt for a well trained suspect who authorities say has a vendetta is similarly acute, said Jim Trainum, a former homicide detective with the Washington Metropolitan Police Department who worked on the sniper case."Crime in general is nebulous or out there but when it strikes next to you, you think 'it could be me,'" Trainum said.Neighbors have echoed that sentiment."It's too close to home. It's kind of scary," Dorner's neighbor, Dan Gomez told, KLASDorner, authorities said, is bent on vengeance against Los Angeles Police Department officers he claims ruined his life by forcing him out of his dream job. He detailed his rage in an 11-page manifesto.In that letter -- provided to CNN by an LAPD source -- he vowed to violently target police officers and their families, whoever and wherever they are.The motives in the D.C. sniper case were never entirely clear. Muhammad and his accomplice, Lee Boyd Malvo, then 17, taunted police with written messages, phone threats and demands during the rampage.During two trials and in years of appeals, Muhammad had professed innocence. Malvo remains in prison.Another difference is what authorities already know about the suspect in California.In the early days of the D.C. case, there were few clues and many false leads about who was behind the shooting, the type of vehicle involved, and where the suspect or suspects might have been."I was manning the e-mail tip line and there would be hundreds of them," Trainum said. "There was one where they had the shootings mapped out on an upside constellation of Orion. We had people going around copying down the numbers of white vans and e-mailing them. There's always that concern that they'll miss that crucial tip because there is so much static."That static complicated matters, Trainum said."In the D.C. case, everyone speculated that he had sniper training and that he was a police officer. In fact, we got tips about police officers who we had to put under surveillance. In D.C., anybody could have been a target. Out there (the California suspect) has a target list but it is obvious that he will kill anyone who gets in his way."