Story highlights There will be plenty of time to kill when you get to the Super Bowl party hours before kickoffOne of the things to discuss are the brothers Harbaugh and how their family remains neutralRavens linebacker has gone from murder suspect to Reverend RayHost city wants to show America how far it has come since Hurricane KatrinaAmerica has spent $12 billion getting ready for the big game Sunday. Now it's time to cook the wings, prepare the dip, order the pizza, put the beer on ice.The San Francisco 49ers are favored to win their sixth NFL title, but can the Baltimore Ravens send their magnificent, but controversial, linebacker Ray Lewis into retirement with a second championship ring?Will the Baltimore defense be able to stop young quarterback Colin Kaepernick from beating them with his right arm and his legs?Who will win the battle of super siblings?Here are five other story lines you might be talking about around the snack table before the game kicks off in New Orleans at 6:30 p.m. ET:Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Best and worst Super Bowl halftime shows – British pop-rock band Coldplay -- from left, guitarist Jonny Buckland, drummer Will Champion, frontman Chris Martin and bassist Guy Berryman -- will headline the halftime show at Super Bowl 50 in February, according to reports. Here are some of the memorable Super Bowl acts they will follow, both good and not so great. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Best: King of halftime – Thanks to Michael Jackson's game-changing 1993 performance, during which he sang hits including "Black or White" and "Billie Jean," Super Bowl halftime shows became as significant a draw for viewers as the football game itself. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Not so great: A misfirework – Pop songstress Katy Perry rode a giant tiger puppet while singing "Roar" at the 2015 Super Bowl halftime show. And she introduced the world to the beloved "Left Shark." But many observers felt she was upstaged by rapper Missy Elliott, who also performed. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Best: Rock this way – Britney Spears, Aerosmith, 'N Sync, Mary J. Blige and Nelly put on an entertaining show in 2001, performing hits like "Bye Bye Bye" and "I Don't Want to Miss a Thing," but it was the big finale where the entire group sang "Walk This Way" that puts this performance into the halftime hall of fame. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Best: Beautiful day – At the first Super Bowl after September 11, U2 performed a tribute to those lost in the attacks. As the band played "MLK," the names of victims appeared on a screen. The show ended with a stirring version of "Where the Streets Have No Name," and Bono revealing the American flag in the lining of his jacket. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Best: Beatlemania – After Janet Jackson's "wardrobe malfunction" the year before, Paul McCartney's 2005 performance was a show everyone could get behind. McCartney took the stage to play fan favorites such as "Live and Let Die," "Drive My Car" and "Hey Jude." Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Best: Purple reign – In addition to his own hits "Let's Go Crazy," "1999" and "Purple Rain" (in the rain), Prince used the 2007 halftime show to masterfully weave in other artists' classics such as Queen's "We Will Rock You," Creedence Clearwater Revival's "Proud Mary" and Bob Dylan's "All Along the Watchtower." Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Best: Glory days – Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band took the stage in 2009, the same year he released his 16th studio album, "Working on a Dream." He urged viewers to "put your chicken fingers down and turn the television set all the way up" before launching into hard-rocking hits such as "Born to Run" and "Tenth Avenue Freeze-Out." Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Best: All hail the Queen (Bey) – Beyonce's performance at the 2013 Super Bowl was of epic proportions. The superstar blew through her greatest hits and landed each dance move, even bringing out her old Destiny's Child groupmates, Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams, for a quickie reunion. We are not exaggerating -- or speaking on behalf of Kanye West -- when we say this was one of the best Super Bowl halftime performances of all time. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Not so great: Feeling blue – In 1997, Dan Aykroyd, John Goodman and Jim Belushi performed as the Blues Brothers. The men looked like they were having a blast, but it was one of the weakest halftime shows to date. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Not so great: Gridiron groans – In 1989, Elvis Presley impersonator Elvis Presto took to the Super Bowl stage in head-to-toe gold lame to perform "the world's largest card trick" among a bevy of Solid Gold dancers. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Not so great: The kids are (just) all right – Talk about a family-friendly halftime show. Mickey Mouse and a bunch of children opened for New Kids on the Block in 1991. NKOTB, who performed "Step by Step" and "This One's for the Children," can't be held accountable for landing on this list. They did the best they could, considering the large number of actual kids on their block. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Not so great: Deadly serious – In 2000, Christina Aguilera, Enrique Iglesias, Phil Collins and Toni Braxton performed in another Disney-themed halftime show . The concept was "Tapestry of Nations" and included a song called "Reflections of Earth" and narration by actor Edward James Olmos. Need we say more? Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Not so great: Where is the love? – The 2011 halftime show showed promise. The crowd was pumped as the Black Eyed Peas entered from the ceiling, but once they hit the stage, things fell apart. Not even hundreds of dancers clad in glowing green lights could save this performance. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Photos: Super Bowl halftime shows Not so great: Boob tube – In 2004, Janet Jackson, Diddy, Nelly, Kid Rock and Justin Timberlake put on quite a performance for viewers -- although it doesn't much matter what they sang, since the show will be forever remembered for Jackson's "wardrobe malfunction." Hide Caption 15 of 15JUST WATCHED Super Bowl moment changed father and son Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Super Bowl moment changed father and son 04:36JUST WATCHED Super Bowl ads surface Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Super Bowl ads surface 04:47JUST WATCHED Superbowl Bets and Ads Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Superbowl Bets and Ads 05:001. Some fans are 'Switzerland'Indiana Hoosiers basketball coach Tom Crean will be one of the 72,000 fans at the game.But he and his wife, Joani, and her parents won't be pulling for the Ravens to maul the 49ers or for San Francisco to knock off Baltimore.You see Joani's brothers, John and Jim Harbaugh, are the two opposing head coaches in the big game. John coaches the Ravens, Jim leads San Francisco.In a perfect world, Jackie Harbaugh would like to see the Super Bowl end in a tie, but she and her husband, Jack, know they will have one son on Sunday night who'll be ecstatic and one who'll be melancholy."There is going to be one winner and there is going to be one who is going to be totally disappointed," said Jack Harbaugh, who coached for 43 years." My thoughts go to that one that will not experience the thrill of victory. That's where our thoughts will be."And mom and dad, married for 51 years, will be there to make things a little better."We're going to hug both of them and tell them how proud we are of them and their teams," Jackie Harbaugh said.The old coach said he was just as proud of his sons this week as he was in the days when they each told him they made the junior high or high school football team. Or when they said they earned a college scholarship -- Jim to Michigan and John to Miami University in Ohio."The thrill that you feel -- I know this is on a big stage -- but in parenting, those don't rank any differently," he said.2. "Reverend Ray" inspires, draws criticismAt Pastor Jamal Bryant's church, God is on the Ravens' side. And why not? Bryant is Ray Lewis' pastor, the man who helped lead Lewis to redemption.People at the Empowerment Temple AME Church call Lewis "Reverend Ray." Bryant says the title fits."He's a jack leg preacher without a license, no Bible college, but it's just in him," Bryant said. "He's spoken here a couple of times, I've put him up to do our Bible study, and he's like Billy Graham and Bishop (T.D.) Jakes wrapped into one."Fans say Lewis' in-your-face faith and extensive community service is beautifully sincere. His critics find it phony -- a redemption tour with no true redemption."Redemption? Stop acting like you are one of those people that come out of the Bible," Greg Wilson told CNNThirteen years ago, Wilson's nephew, Jacinth Baker, and his buddy, Richard Lollar, were stabbed to death outside of an Atlanta nightclub.Lewis and two others were charged in their killings.Four months later, Lewis pleaded guilty to misdemeanor obstruction of justice. A jury acquitted Joseph Sweeting and Reginald Oakley. "It was self-defense for me because someone attacked me," Oakley told CNN.Today, Lewis insists whatever happened in Atlanta changed him."With everything I've been through in my whole life, the thing for me to be here today and my only purpose in life is to find ways to help people and encourage people and make our world a better place," he said.Bryant compares Lewis to the biblical figure King David."David was a man after God's own heart, after committing adultery, after committing murder, after being negligent on the job, after being taken out of position," Bryant said. "He's still somebody who God honored, and I think that many times history can't appreciate it while you're in it, it's only after you walk away."That is the definition of redemption, Bryant said. It's not what you've done, it's what you've become.3. From starter to mentorAlex Smith can't help but be a little disappointed even though the 49ers are in the game of their lives. Just a few months ago, Smith was San Francisco's starting quarterback before a concussion sent him to the sideline.Kaepernick, the second-year backup, played even better than Smith, stayed in the lineup and had a big role in getting the 49ers to the Super Bowl. He said Smith has been supportive since losing his spot."It means a lot," Kaepernick said this week. "I think it really shows his character and the kind of man he is. He's helped me through everything, from Week 1 'til now."Smith, who is healthy again, said he said he became a starter in college at Utah when their No. 1 quarterback went down."I'd be pretty hypocritical to be upset about it," Smith said. "It's the nature of sports. He got an opportunity, stepped up and made the most of it."NBC Sports reported this week that Smith will ask to be released in the offseason, giving him greater control of which team he will play for next. The 49ers also could trade him, or keep him, but not many teams would want to pay their backup quarterback $8.5 million.It's unlikely Harbaugh will pull Kaepernick if he struggles, but if he is injured the 49ers have little to worry about in his replacement.4. Distractions, distractions, distractionsPlayers were sure the media circus wouldn't affect Super Bowl XLVII."You get to play at this level because most of the guys are mentally tough, so when you get out there, the last thing you're going to be thinking about is what people are saying," 49ers center Jonathan Goodwin said.Ravens center Matt Birk said the being a professional football player requires staying focused at the task at hand, something some guys can't handle. He said he compartmentalizes the bad stuff, blocks it out.Patrick Willis, a 49ers linebacker, defended Culliver."In this business, it's always going to be something, and we know those guys," he said. "We know those guys' hearts. We know that those things that come out of their mouths aren't intended to hurt anyone or intended to make it about them."Culliver apologized Wednesday and again Thursday, saying: "I'm sorry that I offended anyone. They were very ugly comments, and that's not what I feel in my heart. Hopefully, I can learn and grow from this experience and this situation. I love San Francisco."5. New Orleans on the comebackThe Big Easy is playing host to its 10th Super Bowl and even though locals are crushed that the hometown Saints aren't playing in the game, they are happy to show a city that has rebounded strongly from Hurricane Katrina seven years ago."We're in an economic resurrection of the city," actor and businessman Wendell Pierce said. "This is a point in time that people will remember that New Orleans was on its way back. We came from total destruction and now we're hosting one of the great events known to the world."The New Orleans Tourism Marketing Corp. says the big game served as a goal line to cross for more than $1 billion in improvements to the city. Much of that was spent fixing up the airport, where most fans will get a first impression of the city that depends heavily on tourism.New Orleans officials hope that some of the fans don't pack up and leave on Monday. After all, there's another big event going on. Mardi Gras!it's the best time ever, Pierce said."You're right in the middle of the greatest street party in the history of the world, Mardi Gras," he said. "To have the Super Bowl join that, it's one of the most festive times to be here in New Orleans. We're going to have great food, great time and one of the greatest games in ... world sports."