Story highlights Louis Freeh says family review was 'self-serving'Paterno widow says Freeh report must be correctedReport from family of late coach comes seven months after university-funded reviewFormer Attorney General Dick Thornburgh led family probeThe family of the late Joe Paterno released a report Sunday morning that absolved the coaching great of blame in the Jerry Sandusky child sex abuse scandal and said a prior review commissioned by Penn State University was "factually wrong, speculative and fundamentally flawed. "Former Attorney General Dick Thornburgh put together the new report, the Paterno family said in a written statement."The experts determined that the conclusions of the (university) report are based on raw speculation and unsupported opinion -- not facts and evidence," Thornburgh said, according to the statementLouis Freeh, who authored the university report released in July, said the family review was "self-serving."The former FBI director said Paterno and three other former university officials showed no empathy for Sandusky's victims and chose not to report his conduct to authorities.Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Former Penn State football coach Joe Paterno died in January 2012. He was 85. The legendary coach, seen here in 1988, was fired in November 2011 amid revelations that assistant coach Jerry Sandusky had sexually abused boys on the Penn State campus. Here's a look at Paterno's 46 years at the helm of the Nittany Lions football program. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach The statue of Paterno outside Beaver Stadium was among many vestiges of his years as head coach. After his legacy was tarnished it was removed from its pedestal in 2012. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno sprints off the field with his team at halftime in a 1996 game. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno celebrates after winning the Fiesta Bowl against Texas in 1997. Paterno was diagnosed with a treatable form of lung cancer, his son announced in November. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach In October 2001, Paterno is honored before a game for having won the most games in Division 1-A. He continued to vie with Florida State's Bobby Bowden for the most all-time major college wins until Bowden retired in 2009. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno and his Nittany Lions look on before facing Iowa at Beaver Stadium in State College, Pennsylvania, in October 2004. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno shakes hands with Lloyd Carr of Michigan before their game in 2005 in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno celebrates a triple-overtime Orange Bowl win over Florida State in Miami on January 3, 2006. Paterno has guided his teams to more bowl victories than any other college coach. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno speaks at a post-game press conference after winning the Outback Bowl on January 1, 2007, in Tampa, Florida. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno walks the field as his players warm up before their game against the Syracuse Orangemen at Beaver Stadium in September 2009 in Pennsylvania. The coach was fired in November amid the outcry over the handling of accusations against former defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno gives direction to his players before playing the Crimson Tide in Alabama in 2010. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Paterno as Penn State coach Paterno walks the sidelines in October 2009 in Evanston, Illinois. In December 2011, he was admitted to a hospital after fracturing his pelvis when he slipped and fell at his home in State College. Hide Caption 12 of 12JUST WATCHED Wall around Paterno statue demolished Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wall around Paterno statue demolished 00:47JUST WATCHED Joe Paterno statue removed from stadium Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Joe Paterno statue removed from stadium 02:01"I stand by our conclusion that four of the most powerful people at Penn State failed to protect against a child sexual predator harming children for over a decade," Freeh said in a lengthy written statement.The family statement said Paterno never attempted to hide any information or impede any investigation into Sandusky's activities while using Penn State facilities.The university responded to the report, saying Freeh had been tasked with conducting an internal review to identify failures in the school's response to allegations."It is understandable and appreciated that people will draw their own conclusions and opinions from the facts uncovered in the Freeh report," Penn State said in a written statement.The school had acted on most of the 119 recommendations made in the report, the statement said.After Sandusky was arrested in November 2011, the university fired Paterno and funded a review of the scandal led by Freeh.Freeh's 267-page review blamed Paterno, former university President Graham Spanier, suspended Athletic Director Tim Curley and ex-Vice President Gary Schultz for allegedly taking part in a cover-up to avoid bad publicity.The family disputed that, saying the "allegation is false" that Paterno participated in a conspiracy.The Paterno family review also skewered the Freeh report for failing to interview key witnesses, allowing some to testify anonymously and using an incomplete string of e-mails for evidence. Most of the e-mails from that time are unavailable, the family said.Freeh's team concluded that the school's top administrators had "empowered" Sandusky, the former defensive coordinator for the football team, to continue his abuse. The report said the panel interviewed more than 430 witnesses.A lawyer for one of Sandusky's victims said Sunday that Paterno should have taken action after reports of Sandusky's behavior.The family's complaints about witnesses and e-mails "do not erase the shocking and striking documents which Freeh did uncover and which form an unassailable finding made by Mr. Freeh that Joe Paterno tragically had knowledge in 1998 and again in 2001 that Jerry Sandusky was a threat, which was never dealt with properly by the former Penn State coach," said Thomas Kline, attorney for Victim No. 5 in the Sandusky trial.In an online letter to Penn State's current and former players, Paterno's widow, Sue, wrote on Friday: "The Freeh report failed and if it is not challenged and corrected, nothing worthwhile will have come from these tragic events."The family, she said, wants a full record of what happened.The university panicked after the Freeh report was released, she claimed, and Penn State's board of trustees should have challenged the report.She told the players that they -- and his family -- were Joe Paterno's legacy, not a report.She also criticized the Freeh report's depiction of her husband."When the Freeh report was released last July, I was as shocked as anyone by the findings and by Mr. Freeh's extraordinary attack on Joe's character and integrity. I did not recognize the man Mr. Freeh described," she said.The university's board of trustees fired Paterno after a 46-year career because, it said, his "decision to do his minimum legal duty and not to do more to follow up constituted a failure of leadership."In July, the NCAA imposed on Penn State some of the most severe penalties ever, including a $60 million fine.The governing body of major college sports also vacated Penn State's football wins dating back to 1998, the year when allegations that Sandusky was abusing children were first made. That penalty removed Paterno from the top of the list of Division I college football's winningest coaches. Paterno died in January 2012.Sandusky, who ran a charity for disadvantaged children after he retired in 1999, was convicted last June on 45 counts of child sex abuse. In October, the 68-year-old former coach was sentenced to 30 to 60 years in prison.Spanier, Curley and Schultz face charges stemming from the Sandusky scandal, including perjury, conspiracy and endangering the welfare of children. All three are awaiting court dates and have said they are innocent, according to their lawyers.