Boston (CNN) Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar "Jahar" Tsarnaev was a quiet, studious boy who looked up to his eldest brother in a dysfunctional home where his parents often quarreled, Tsarnaev's former brother-in-law recalled Wednesday.Elmirza Khozhugov, the former husband of Dzhokhar's sister Ailina, said the younger Tsarnaev eagerly went along with anything his co-conspirator brother, Tamerlan, said to him."There's a saying we have in Chechnya: In a family with seven sons, it is better to be a dog than the younger son," Khozhugov said. "The youngest of the boys is obliged to do the things the older boys tell him."It was evening at the U.S. Embassy in Kazakhstan when Khozhugov testified remotely Wednesday in the penalty phase of Tsarnaev's capital murder trial. With his live testimony from Almaty, the defense team sought to bolster its contention that Tsarnaev was merely following the lead of an older brother he admired greatly when he planted a pair of bombs near the marathon's finish line."Tamerlan loved his younger brother, absolutely adored him," Khozhugov said. "Always put himself as the defender of Jahar. Tamerlan was very charismatic, and he was a leader within himself. It was a very easy thing for him to do, being the elder brother."Tamerlan died after a shootout with police shortly after the bombings. He was also hit by the car Dzhokhar was driving as he fled the shootout.'Happy in life'The jury also heard about Tsarnaev's father, Anzor, and his long battle with mental illness.Anzor heard voices screaming or whispering his name, saw little lizard-like creatures and animal faces, and suffered panic attacks and insomnia, according to medical records read into evidence Wednesday.A day earlier, psychiatrist Alexander Niss told the jury that Anzor exhibited the symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder after being tortured at a prison camp during the Russian-Chechen wars."He was a very sick guy," Niss said. "He was hallucinating. He had a lot of paranoia. He was afraid of KGB. He was looking through his window at his home."The mental illness may have played a role in Anzor's troubles with his wife, Zubeidat Tsarnaeva."The relationship between the parents wasn't an exemplary one," Khozhugov told the jury. "They had a lot of arguments, and they had a lot of conflicts. ... I would say the mother, Zubeidat, had more authority than the father did."Anzor and Tsarnaev's mother later divorced.'I'm done. I'm sorry'On Wednesday, the defense attempted to soften the impact of the prosecution's image of a defiant Tsarnaev raising his middle finger to a surveillance camera in his cell at the federal courthouse on July 10, 2013.Deputy U.S. Marshal Kevin Michael Roche, who escorted the prisoner, was asked about the image. Roche said he and his supervisor talked with Tsarnaev after the video was recorded."We asked him if he was going to be a problem for the rest of the day and he said, 'No, I'm done. I'm sorry,' " Roche said.Growing up in Massachusetts, the younger Tsarnaev was quiet and liked to spend time delving into books and writing. His mother sometimes proudly posted his grades on the refrigerator of the family's crammed two-bedroom Cambridge apartment for visitors to see.But it was Tamerlan who played the father figure, Khozhugov recalled. The brothers spent a lot of time alone."Every day he would talk to Jahar about how he was doing in school, and how he should be doing," Khozhugov said. "Tamerlan couldn't find enough words to express his love for his younger brother, and what he could do for Jahar to be successful and happy in life."The defense team's portrayal of Tsarnaev differs starkly from the prosecution's portrait of a cold and unremorseful young man.A jury last month found Tsarnaev guilty of all 30 counts related to the bomb attacks and their aftermath, which left four people dead. Seventeen of those counts could send him to death row.Khozhugov is not subject to sanctions for perjury because he did not take the stand on U.S. soil. The jury can discount his testimony if it chooses. He was the only male relative to testify after four of five female relatives who were brought to the United States delivered emotional testimony earlier this week.Stopped boxingKhozhugov, who was questioned by defense lawyer Judy Clarke, said he married Dzhokhar's sister Ailina in 2006. He was 20; she was 15. The marriage fell apart when he struck her during an argument over her Facebook contacts."I lost my temper and put my hands on her," he said. "As a result of that, I got arrested, and we got divorced."Tamerlan once introduced Khozhugov to an Armenian friend who was a convert to Islam. His name was Misha, and he was a mentor of sorts to Tamerlan, Khozhugov said. Zubeidat Tsarnaeva welcomed Misha, who engaged in conversations about religion and politics.Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A jury condemned Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to death on Friday, May 15, for his role in killing four people and wounding hundreds more in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. See photos that were released as evidence in his trial. Hide Caption 1 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This undated photo of a young Tsarnaev with his brother, Tamerlan, was shown by the defense in the sentencing phase of the trial. Tamerlan died after being shot by police and run over by a car driven by his brother in the massive manhunt that followed the bombings. Hide Caption 2 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Katie Russell met Tamerlan Tsarnaev at a nightclub and dropped out of college to marry him. Her mother, Judith Russell, testified that Tamerlan came between Katie and her family and that Katie became isolated. She eventually converted to Islam and changed her name to Karima Tsarnaeva. She was the breadwinner. But when company came for dinner, she cooked, served the men and then retired to another room. Hide Caption 3 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This collection of photos of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in his wrestling days was introduced by the defense. Hide Caption 4 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This photo of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, recovered from his computer, was shown during the sentencing phase. Hide Caption 5 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image shows victims' positions in the crowd prior to the Boston Marathon bombings on April 15, 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev "flips the bird" in a jail cell during his first arraignment on July 10, 2013. The image was presented to jurors in the sentencing phase of his trial. Hide Caption 7 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev poses in front of a black standard adopted by various militant Islamist groups in this Instagram photo that was entered as evidence. Hide Caption 8 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say Tsarnaev was a self-radicalized jihadist who pored over militant writings, including the article "How to Build a Bomb in the Kitchen of Your Mom." It was found on his laptop and other devices, part of a full-edition download of Inspire magazine, a glossy English-language propaganda tool put out by al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Hide Caption 9 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This Russian manual on how to fire a handgun was found in the apartment where Tsarnaev's brother, Tamerlan, lived. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 10 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This copy of The Sovereign, which calls itself the "newspaper of the resistance," was also found in Tamerlan Tsarnaev's apartment. Hide Caption 11 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Pictured here is a box of bullets found on a street after the shootout in Watertown. The brothers' fingerprints were on the box, prosecutors said. Hide Caption 12 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A pressure cooker was embedded in the side of a resident's Honda during the Watertown shootout. Hide Caption 13 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos of the Watertown shootout were entered into evidence. Neighbors came to their windows and then retreated. One grabbed his infant son and headed toward the back of his house with his wife. Another grabbed a camera and took photographs from an upstairs window. Hide Caption 14 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence The Tsarnaevs had carjacked a Mercedes SUV in Watertown before the shootout. The vehicle was covered in bulletholes, and the rear window was shattered. Hide Caption 15 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This unexploded pipe bomb was found at the scene of the shootout between police and the Tsarnaev brothers in Watertown. Hide Caption 16 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said these boards were attached to the boat where police found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding. A carved message reads, "Stop killing our innocent people and we will stop." Hide Caption 17 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Smashed phones and an ATM card owned by carjacking victim Dun Meng were in the yard where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found. Hide Caption 18 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this surveillance image shows Tsarnaev visiting an ATM hours before a police chase and chaotic shootout in which more than 200 rounds were fired. Hide Caption 19 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Another view of Tsarnaev's visit to the ATM. Hide Caption 20 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Exhibits related to the shooting death of MIT Officer Sean Collier were introduced to the jury on Wednesday, March 11. This image from the crime scene appears to show a bloody gun. Hide Caption 21 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This burned tank top and yellow hoodie belonged to bombing survivor Jessica Kensky. Hide Caption 22 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this Fox Racing logo was from one of the backpacks containing a bomb. Hide Caption 23 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this still image from surveillance video shows Tsarnaev in the UMass Dartmouth gym the day after the bombings. Hide Caption 24 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors showed the jury photos of what they say are Tsarnaev's writings inside the boat he was captured in. Hide Caption 25 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image is from a surveillance camera outside the Forum restaurant in Boston's Copley Square just after the bombing. Hide Caption 26 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors presented two Twitter accounts linked to Tsarnaev that, they said, showed targeting the marathon had been on his mind for at least a year. One account, @J_tsar, contained 1,100 tweets and was the more mainstream of the two. On the day of the 2012 Boston Marathon, a tweet from the account read, "They will spend their money & they will regret it & they will be defeated." Hide Caption 27 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said the second Twitter account is evidence that Tsarnaev led a double life. By day, he was a slacker college sophomore. By night, he was a wannabe jihadist, posting on the account @Al_firdausiA. In one tweet, he urged people to listen to radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki's lectures. "You will gain an unbelievable amount of knowledge," he said in March 2013, just weeks before the bombings. Prosecutors also allege in an indictment that Tsarnaev downloaded al-Awlaki's writings, calling him a "well-known al Qaeda propagandist." Al-Awlaki had been killed in a U.S. drone strike in 2011. Hide Caption 28 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Hide Caption 29 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A Boston Marathon bombing victim is tended to in the street. Hide Caption 30 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Victims at the finish line just after the bombing. Hide Caption 31 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Eight-year-old Martin Richard, the youngest victim , can be seen standing on the rail in the front row. Hide Caption 32 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A closer view of 8-year-old Martin Richard in the crowd before the bombing. Hide Caption 33 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Boston police tend to a wounded child. CNN has chosen not to show the young victim's face. Hide Caption 34 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Mayhem along Boylston Street. Hide Caption 35 of 35Tamerlan started to change during his friendship with Misha. He quit boxing and an acting class, Khozhugov said. He lost interest in music and began talking about conspiracy theories he picked up on the Internet."He particularly told me that Misha told him it was not appropriate in Islam to box and that is why he stopped," he said.The last witness Wednesday was former Federal Bureau of Prisons official Mark Bezy, who described what life would be like for Tsarnaev if he is sentenced to spend the rest of his life behind bars.Bezy said a prisoner such as Tsarnaev would be held under so-called special administrative measures. Aimed at cutting off an inmate's contact with the outside world, the measures forbid contact with other prisoners and limit visits to immediate family. Inmates are housed in single cells in supermax prisons. Only the U.S. attorney general or the FBI can remove the restrictions.Earlier this week, Raisat Suleimanov remembered her cousin Dzhokhar as a sweet boy with a big smile who wept when Mufasa, Simba's father in the animated movie, "The Lion King," was killed by Scar, his evil brother."He was very sorry the lion died," she said.On cross-examination, Assistant U.S. Attorney William Weinreb started to ask Suleimanov a question: "You agree that the person who cries at the death of a cartoon character but is indifferent to the suffering of hundreds ..." His question was cut short by a defense objection, and he wasn't allowed to finish. But Weinreb's point was clear.A Moscow nurse and mother of a 3-year-old, Suleimanov traveled from Russia to Boston, she told defense attorney William Fick in Russian, to testify Monday.Tsarnaev showed a rare glimmer of emotion during Monday's hearing, dabbing his eyes as a Russian aunt, who hadn't seen him since he was a child, broke down in tears on the witness stand.Patimat Suleimanov was so overcome by emotion that she was asked to step down and compose herself.Other female relatives described Tsarnaev as a sweet child, but they took pains to disavow the bombings and any form of radical Islam."I categorically reject what he did. It's a great tragedy, of course," Raisat Suleimanov said.'This child has changed me'Referring to Tsarnaev as her brother because she said she feels "very close" to her male cousins, Suleimanov told the court how her family would spend summers with the Tsarnaevs in Kaspiysk, along the Caspian Sea. She last saw him when he was 8, she testified.Their aunt, she said, was strict with the children -- "We couldn't go out of bounds with her" -- but Tsarnaev's kindness and his reaction to Musafa's death changed her. She became more loving, even with the children, Suleimanov said.JUST WATCHED Boston Marathon bomber flips camera the bird Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boston Marathon bomber flips camera the bird 00:39"My aunt said, 'I can't understand how such a small child could sympathize, could understand such tragedy,' " Suleimanov recalled. "When Jahar was staying with her, with his kindness he changed her. He could do whatever he wanted. She even said herself, 'This child has changed me.' "Another cousin, Nabisat Suleimanov, told jurors Tsarnaev was warm, caring and "one would want to hug him and not let him go. He was an unusual child."She, too, remembered the effect Tsarnaev had on her aunt, who loved young Tsarnaev so much that she even excused some rather inappropriate behavior from him, which the other children couldn't understand.JUST WATCHED Jury to decide if Tsarnaev lives or dies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jury to decide if Tsarnaev lives or dies 01:58"She's a very stern woman. She worked in the security forces and was very pedantic and made her children follow the rules all the time. And when Jahar appeared, she changed drastically. She would even let him urinate in the sink in the kitchen, and it was very strange for us."Both cousins appeared nervous on the stand. And while Raisat Suleimanov remembered the Tsarnaevs being Muslim, they didn't come off as all that devout, she said. They didn't pray five times a day, for instance, she said.