(CNN) In a photo, a man holds a handwritten sign identifying a dead dolphin lying on a Louisiana beach. Researchers have snapped many such photos, trying to figure out what killed an unusually high number of the sea mammals in the wake of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.After the rig exploded, killing 11 people, the well pumped at least 3.1 millions of barrels of oil into the Gulf of Mexico for 87 days.Oil giant BP has disputed the implication that the spill is to blame for the dolphins' demise.It argued in a recently released report that there's no evidence to conclude the spill was responsible for killing them, citing its own examination of data delivered by the scientists . Oil exposure was not cited as a cause of death, BP said.Conclusive vs consistentBut the scientists have a different interpretation of their own data, and it implicates the historic spill.The dolphins' deaths are consistent with raised exposure to petroleum, they said in a study released this week by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and a group of independent scientists.Dolphins swim through oil residue after Deepwater Horizon oil spill.Though oil that spewed out of the uncapped wellhead may not have poisoned the dolphins outright, swimming through it probably broke down the health of many of them, NOAA said , leading them to get sick and die.It proposes that the exposure is a cause of the sickness and a contributor to their deaths.Death spikeIn the photo, the sign over the silvery carcass reads "Tursiops truncatus." That's the scientific name for the bottlenose dolphin, the most common dolphin species off of Gulf shores. Seeing one washed up dead on a beach may not be common, but it's also no anomaly.But the sign in the photograph also includes a locator, Fourchon Beach. It's on Barataria Bay, which took a big hit from Deepwater Horizon, the costliest man-made disaster in U.S. history.And during and after the spill, dolphins washed up there dead in particularly high numbers, the study said.The scientists working for and with NOAA focused on dolphins that died there and on nearby beaches in Mississippi and Alabama during and after the spill in an "unusual mortality event," or UME, when dead dolphins turned up in peak numbers.Rare lesionsThey discovered some marked health damage among dolphin carcasses -- many had extremely rare lesions in their adrenal glands and their lungs. The two ailments were likely related to each other, the scientists say, and likely caused by the spill."The timing, location, and nature of the lesions support that oil compounds from the Deepwater Horizon oil spill caused these lesions and contributed to the high numbers of dolphin deaths within this oil spill's footprint," NOAA said.Weakened animalsThe weakening of the adrenal glands probably came first, the scientists said. And in many cases they probably led to the lung ailments.One-third of the entire group of dolphin cadavers had the same kinds of damage to the adrenal gland. Half of the Barataria Bay dolphins had it. The scientist had never come across it before.Photos: Deepwater Horizon victims Photos: Deepwater Horizon victims Eleven men were killed when the Deepwater Horizon oil rig exploded on April 20, 2010. Five years later, their families -- mothers, fathers, siblings, wives and children -- soldier on without them and hold tight to their memories. Click through the gallery to learn more about each man. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Deepwater Horizon victims Jason Anderson (Midfield, Texas) – Anderson was 35. His daughter, Lacy, was 5 when he died. His son, Ryver, was 1. In a victim impact statement to a judge filed in January 2013, Anderson's wife, Shelley, described his absence in their lives: "It is grueling for me to tuck my daughter in bed and read her a story while my son is crying in the other room because mommy can only do one thing at a time and daddy is not home to help. ... Jason was planning to walk his little girl down the aisle on her wedding day, to dance the father-of-the-bride dance, to teach her to 'boom a deer.' ... He won't be holding my hand for any of the events in her life ever again." Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Deepwater Horizon victims Dale Burkeen (Philadelphia, Mississippi) – Burkeen, 37, was a crane operator on Deepwater Horizon for 10 years. He was survived by his wife, Rhonda; his daughter, Aryn; and his son, Timothy. "The day of the explosion was Dale's wedding anniversary," his mother, Mary Burkeen, wrote in a victim impact statement. "The rig sank on my birthday, and Dale's birthday was April 24th. ... That is a week in April in which I will always be reminded of tragedy and loss -- a reminder that will take place each and every year for the rest of my life." Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Deepwater Horizon victims Donald Clark (Newelton, Louisiana) – Clark, 49, was an assistant driller who spent a decade with the Transocean company. He was survived by his wife, Sheila, and four children: James, Krystal, Donald Jr. and Tandrea. He was remembered by colleagues as a gentle, soft-spoken man with an excellent work ethic. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Deepwater Horizon victims Stephen Curtis (Georgetown, Louisiana) – Curtis, 39, was an assistant driller on the Deepwater Horizon. He was survived by his wife, Nancy; his daughter, Kala; and his son, Treavor. Treavor and his father "had a special father-son bond," Treavor's mother, Sissy Curtis, wrote in a victim impact statement. "His father was his hero, his life and his everything." Stephen and Treavor loved hunting, fishing, baseball and watching NASCAR. Treavor recently wrote on his Facebook page: "Going to climb a tree in the a.m. and be where I feel closest to my Dad." Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Deepwater Horizon victims Gordon Jones (Baton Rouge, Louisiana) – Jones, 28, was a drilling fluids specialist. He was survived by his wife, Michelle, and two sons, Stafford and Maxwell. Maxwell was born a few weeks after his father's death. "We work together so that his children will never forget who Gordon was," his sister, Kathleen Goodlife, wrote in a victim impact statement. "He was extremely funny with an obnoxiously contagious laugh. He had a way to make anyone feel welcome no matter their background. He really was an outstanding guy." Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Deepwater Horizon victims Wyatt Kemp (Jonesville, Louisiana) – Kemp, 27, was a derrickhand aboard the Deepwater Horizon. He was survived by his wife, Courtney, and two daughters, Kaylee and Maddison. Kaylee had turned 3 on April 17, three days before the tragedy, "and we were waiting for her daddy to come home to have her birthday party," wrote her mother in a victim impact statement. Maddison was just 3 months old at the time. "Wyatt's memory will live on in our hearts, and through pictures, and the stories I tell our girls almost daily. I have kept pictures up in our house so Maddi will always know her daddy's face. Kaylee and I have dreams of Wyatt." Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Deepwater Horizon victims Karl Kleppinger Jr. (Natchez, Mississippi) – Kleppinger, 38, was a floorhand who had worked with Transocean for 10 years. He was also a military veteran who served in the U.S. Army during Operation Desert Storm. He was survived by his wife, Tracy, and his son, Aaron. Kleppinger loved NASCAR, according to Steven Newman, president and CEO of Transocean. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Deepwater Horizon victims Blair Manuel (Gonzales, Louisiana) – Manuel, 56, was a senior drilling fluids specialist. He was survived by his fiancee and three daughters. "My dad was not only the best father ever, but still after being in my 30s, was a man that I called a friend," wrote one of his daughters, Jessica, in a victim impact statement. "My world has been rocked badly. I am not the same person. My baby boy ... will never know the love of his grandfather." One of his best friends said Manuel's credo for life was the four Fs: fun, family, friends and faith. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Deepwater Horizon victims Dewey Revette (State Line, Mississippi) – Revette, 48, was chief driller on the oil rig. He was survived by his wife, Sherri, and two daughters, Andrea and Alicia. He was a family man, fisherman, deer hunter. He adored his girls, and his wife says he never watched a movie his entire life -- too many largemouth bass to catch. He had just walked his oldest daughter, Andrea, down the aisle at her wedding. "That was our first thought when all this happened," Sherri said a few months after the rig explosion. "Our youngest child won't get that." Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Deepwater Horizon victims Shane Roshto (Liberty, Mississippi) – Roshto, 22, was a floorhand who joined Transocean in 2006. He was deeply devoted to his wife, Natalie, and his son, Michael. On the inside of his hard hat, he wrote down two dates -- his wedding day and his son's birthday -- to get him through tough times. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Deepwater Horizon victims Adam Weise (Yorktown, Texas) – At 24, Weise was the second youngest to die and the only one who did not have children. He was a floorhand and drove 10 hours every three weeks to work on the rig. Every time Adam left, his mother said he'd tell her, "I'm working for your retirement, Mom." Arleen Weise clings to memories of her fun-loving son. He would hide in the bushes at the local golf club and blow an air horn when golfers hit mid-swing. When he was a boy, she kissed him on the school bus in front of his classmates. "That's OK," Adam said when they teased him, "because I love my momma." Hide Caption 12 of 12"To our knowledge, adrenal cortical atrophy as found in this study has not been previously described in free-ranging (dolphins, porpoises and whales), including bottlenose dolphins previously studied in the northern Gulf of Mexico," they said.Damaged glands produce less hormones, which throws off the dolphins' metabolism and blood pressure, and can make them more susceptible to coldlike diseases."Animals with adrenal insufficiency are less able to cope with additional stressors in their everyday lives," said Dr. Stephanie Venn-Watson, the study's lead author, "and when those stressors occur, they are more likely to die."Death by infectionMany of the dolphin carcasses studied had forms of pneumonia that either killed them or helped kill them, the scientists said. They were markedly more prevalent than would normally be expected in randomly found dolphin carcasses.Altogether, the dolphins they inspected were four times more likely to die from infections than normal. Dolphin carcasses from the spill zone also had a high prevalence of problems in their lymph systems, which aid in fighting infection.Repeat implicationResearchers also tested living dolphins in the spill zone in 2011, and found that many of them had the same health problems."Barataria Bay dolphins had a high prevalence of moderate to severe lung disease and blood value changes indicative of hypoadrenocorticism," the study said. The latter is a reduction in adrenal gland hormones.Nearly half were expected not to live very long, the scientists said, who suspected oil pollution from the spill as the root cause.Previous studies on dolphins have also implicated the Deepwater Horizon spill in their diminished health, the study said. "These studies have increasingly pointed to the presence of petroleum hydrocarbons as being the most significant cause of the illnesses and deaths plaguing the Gulf's dolphin population," said scientist Teri Rowles.This new study underlines and bolsters their findings.