(CNN) A massive biker brawl in Texas leaves nine people dead. ISIS takes over another major city, this time not far from Baghdad. And the FBI says a man claims he hacked into airplane computer systems on passenger jets.It's Monday, and here are five things to know for your new day:BIKER BRAWLRival biker gangs opened fire outside a restaurant in Waco, Texas, leaving nine people dead. It happened in broad daylight at a Twin Peaks on Sunday. What's more -- police said they had anticipated trouble and had officers pre-positioned at the restaurant.ISIS TAKES RAMADIAnother big blow: The key Iraqi city of The key Iraqi city of Ramadi fell to ISIS on Sunday after a series of bombings forced security forces to retreat, the mayor said. Iraqi and allied forces have battled ISIS militants for control of the strategically located city, which is just 70 miles west of Baghdad. But Iraqi and U.S. officials said the fight for Ramadi is far from over.JUST WATCHED Key Iraqi city of Ramadi falls to ISIS Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Key Iraqi city of Ramadi falls to ISIS 02:48FLIGHT ENGINE CONTROLS POSSIBLY HACKEDA worrisome claim: A cybersecurity consultant told the FBI he A cybersecurity consultant told the FBI he hacked into computer systems aboard airliners up to 20 times and managed to control an aircraft engine during a flight, according to federal court documents. Chris Roberts has tweeted that he's been advised not to say much, but said his only interest is "to improve aircraft security."JUST WATCHED FBI: Hacker claims he took over flight engine controls Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH FBI: Hacker claims he took over flight engine controls 02:16ICE SHELFJUST WATCHED NASA study predicts Antarctic ice shelf is disappearing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NASA study predicts Antarctic ice shelf is disappearing 02:03MAD MEN FINALESpoiler alert: No, Don Draper didn't jump out a window (like his silhouette on the opening credits might suggest). Instead, when AMC's "Mad Men" came to an end, Draper (Jon Hamm) sat on a California shoreline, welcoming the dawn of a new day, with "new hope ... new ideas, new you." No, Don Draper didn't jump out a window (like his silhouette on the opening credits might suggest). Instead, when AMC's "Mad Men" came to an end, Draper (Jon Hamm) sat on a California shoreline, welcoming the dawn of a new day, with "new hope ... new ideas, new you." Here's what else happened in the highly anticipated series finale.