(CNN) Looking for answers in the Amtrak investigation. Watery tensions in the Persian Gulf. And the "King of the Blues" is dead.It's Friday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayAMTRAK DERAILMENTNew details are emerging after the Amtrak train crash in Philadelphia . Engineer Brandon Bostian's lawyer says he can't remember what happened because of a concussion he suffered. Also, 65 seconds before the crash, a video shows the train was hurtling down the tracks at more than 70 mph and continuing to accelerate. By the time it hit the bend, investigators say, the train was going more than 100 mph.PERSIAN GULF TENSIONSRough seas: There's a rising tide of maritime tensions in the Persian Gulf. There's a rising tide of maritime tensions in the Persian Gulf. Five Iranian boats fired shots across the bow of a Singapore-flagged cargo vessel yesterday in an apparent attempt to stop the ship, a U.S. official told CNN. The Iranians ordered the ship into Iranian waters. When the ship's master refused, the Iranian boats opened fire, trying to disable the vessel. The freighter escaped into the territorial waters of the United Arab Emirates. The Pentagon is still collecting information about the incident.JUST WATCHED Iranian boats fire shots at a ship in the Persian Gulf Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iranian boats fire shots at a ship in the Persian Gulf 02:10STEPHANOPOULOS SLIP UPObjectivity questioned: It's funny how tens of thousands of dollars in donations to It's funny how tens of thousands of dollars in donations to the Clinton Foundation can backfire on a TV news anchor. ABC's George Stephanopoulos was all the buzz yesterday after word broke that he gave $75,000 to the charitable organization. Prominent Republicans didn't like it, of course, but others were a bit bewildered by it. He apologized for neglecting to tell viewers or his bosses, saying he thought all of his giving was a matter of public record. ABC isn't taking any disciplinary action against him, although the anchor is bowing out of the network's planned Republican presidential primary debate, scheduled for February.No matter how hard @GStephanopoulos tries to separate himself,his long history with the Clintons makes it impossible for him to be unbiased — Dr. Rand Paul (@RandPaul) May 14, 2015DEFLATEGATE - BRADY APPEALOn the ball: It's official: New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady will fight the four-game suspension the NFL dealt him this week. The It's official: New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady will fight the four-game suspension the NFL dealt him this week. The NFL Players Association filed an appeal on Brady's behalf yesterday, saying a neutral party should hear its argument. But late Thursday, the league said that Commissioner Roger Goodell would rule on the matter. The league has said the suspension is a fair punishment. The team was fined $1 million and will forfeit its first-round selection in the 2016 NFL Draft and its fourth-round pick in the 2017 draft.JUST WATCHED Tom Brady appeals 'Deflategate' suspension Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tom Brady appeals 'Deflategate' suspension 01:20DEPP'S DOGSHounding the actor: Johnny Depp's two Yorkshire Terriers, Pistol and Boo, have until Saturday to get out of Australia. Depp's dogs were put on notice after Johnny Depp's two Yorkshire Terriers, Pistol and Boo, have until Saturday to get out of Australia. Depp's dogs were put on notice after the actor violated Australia's famously strict biosecurity laws by bringing them in on a private flight -- and without the proper documentation. The star is in Australia filming the latest installment of the "Pirates of the Caribbean" franchise.JUST WATCHED Dogfight over Johnny Depp's Yorkies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dogfight over Johnny Depp's Yorkies 01:55Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.The Thrill is Gone: No one could bend the strings like B.B. King. No one could bend the strings like B.B. King. The blues legend died last night in Las Vegas at age 89, two weeks after going into home hospice care. King scored 30 Grammy nominations, 15 wins and a Lifetime Achievement award . He named his Gibson guitars Lucille.God bless BB King peace and love to his family Ringo and Barbarax😎✌️🌟💖 — Ringo Starr (@ringostarrmusic) May 15, 2015One man band: Three ukuleles, a snare drum, tambourine, organ, bass and harmonica. Samuraiguitarist covers Bob Marley's "Three Little Birds."Poltergeist clown makeup: A quick how-to on how to look really creepy.Question of the day: Why do people hate fat people? We are not asking, but this guy is.It was there a minute ago: When moving a pool table, make sure to tell the guy who was leaning against it.