(CNN) Five dead in Philly train derailment. Dozens dead in latest Nepal quake. And fewer Americans call themselves Christian.It's Wednesday, and here are five things to know for your New Day.AMTRAK CRASH: At least five people were killed last night when an Amtrak train traveling from Washington to New York derailed . Dozens were injured. Armed with flashlights, firefighters workers went from car to car, rescuing passengers from the train, which went off the tracks in Philadelphia. Mayor Michael Nutter called the scene "an absolute, disastrous mess." Seven cars and the train's engine were either turned over or found upside down. The FBI was on the scene, but as of last night there was nothing to indicate the incident was an act of terrorism.Philadelphia mayor: At least 5 dead in Amtrak derailmentPhiladelphia mayor: At least 5 dead in Amtrak derailment 03:33Philadelphia mayor: At least 5 dead in Amtrak derailmentNEPAL EARTHQUAKEMore misery: At least 65 have died in : At least 65 have died in Nepal's latest earthquake . The quake -- a magnitude 7.3 -- was weaker than the one that hit the region just over two weeks ago, but it was still deadly. It struck before dawn yesterday and aftershocks rocked the region throughout the day. At least 17 people died in India and a woman was killed in China when falling rocks hit her car. A U.S. military helicopter, in Nepal to support quake relief efforts, also went missing yesterday. The UH-1 Huey helicopter had six Marines and two Nepalis aboard at the time.Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake People collect bricks from the ruins of buildings in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on Friday, May 15. The region was struck with a magnitude-7.3 earthquake on Tuesday, May 12, just 17 days after a magnitude-7.8 quake left thousands dead. Hide Caption 1 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake Members of the Nepalese Army search for a U.S. Marine helicopter in Nepal's Dolakha District on Thursday, May 14. The chopper went missing with six U.S. Marines and two Nepali service members on board. Three bodies were found in the helicopter's wreckage on Friday, Nepal's defense secretary said. Hide Caption 2 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake Nepali rescue team members work at a collapsed building in Kathmandu on May 14. Hide Caption 3 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake Debris from a landslide blocks a road in the Dolakha district in Nepal on May 14. Hide Caption 4 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A man carries a jug of water in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on May 14. Hide Caption 5 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A man looks at massive damage in Chautara, Nepal, on Wednesday, May 13. Hide Caption 6 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A helicopter waits to evacuate an injured man at a Nepali army base near Chautara on May 13. Hide Caption 7 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A man carries his child to a camp for displaced people in Chautara on May 13. Hide Caption 8 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A family sleeps in an open space sheltered by plastic sheets in Kathmandu, Nepal, on Tuesday, May 12. Hide Caption 9 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake People take shelter inside a car instead of being indoors in Kathamandu on May 12. Hide Caption 10 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A rescue worker from Mexico stands at the site of a collapsed building in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 11 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake People look through the debris of buildings in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 12 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake An injured person is carried in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 13 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake An injured man rests at a hospital in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 14 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A boy sleeps in his father's lap after they moved to an open area in the Tundikhel area of Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 15 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A car is smashed under the weight of a collapsed building in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 16 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A rescue worker from the U.S. Agency for International Development looks for survivors in Kathmandu along with a sniffer dog on May 12. Hide Caption 17 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake People are carried out of a hospital building in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 18 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake People gather in an open space in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 19 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A woman tries to sit up at a hospital in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 20 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A woman rests at a makeshift hospital in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 21 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake Rescue teams search for survivors in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 22 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake Debris is cleared from the site of a collapsed building in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 23 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake Patients lie on stretchers in an open area after being carried out of a hospital building on May 12. Hide Caption 24 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake People in Kathmandu hurry along a street after the quake struck on May 12. Hide Caption 25 of 25WISCONSIN SHOOTINGNo charges: There were protests, but no violence yesterday when a district attorney announced : There were protests, but no violence yesterday when a district attorney announced no charges would be brought against the Madison, Wisconsin, police officer who shot and killed an unarmed biracial man. Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne said while Tony Robinson's death was "tragic and unfortunate," he concluded Officer Matt Kenny's use of force was lawful. Robinson's family criticized the decision and protestors took the streets, but there were no reports last night of any violence or unrest.JUST WATCHED No charges for cop who shot unarmed teen Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH No charges for cop who shot unarmed teen 02:30NORTH KOREADeath sentence: North Korea has : North Korea has reportedly executed the country's defense minister after the regime accused him of treason. Hyon Yong Chol was killed April 30 with an anti-aircraft gun at a military school in front of hundreds of witnesses, according to South Korean media. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has been accused of ordering the executions of as many as 15 top officials so far this year. However, during a rare trip to Pyongyang last week, a top official told CNN the allegations were "malicious slander."JUST WATCHED North Korean defector: Kim Jong Un out within 3 years Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North Korean defector: Kim Jong Un out within 3 years 02:47RELIGIONNew study: Fewer Americans identify themselves as Christians, mainly because millennials are leaving the fold. That's the takeaway from a new : Fewer Americans identify themselves as Christians, mainly because millennials are leaving the fold. That's the takeaway from a new Pew Research Center study released yesterday. The study says the Christian percentage of the population has dropped from 78.4% in 2007 to 70.6% today. Hinduism and Islam made small but significant gains, but the big drop in Christianity comes from people who now identify themselves as unaffiliated with any faith, a category that's up 10 percentage points since 2007.JUST WATCHED Survey: Fewer Americans identifying as Christians Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Survey: Fewer Americans identifying as Christians 03:32Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.The candy thief: A little girl conspires with her mom to hide her theft of candy from dad. And she's just cute enough to get away with it.For mom: A son produces a video to help his single mom catch a man.Play with me: An adorable (and confused) Yorkshire terrier desperately tries to get a little girl doll to play with him.Trick shots: Extreme fun with Frisbees.Feeding time: A pig sings to her piglets as she feeds them.