(CNN) A behind-the-scenes legal showdown is brewing over whether prominent death penalty opponent Sister Helen Prejean can testify on behalf of Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.Prejean gained national prominence as a death penalty abolitionist in 1995 with the release of the movie "Dead Man Walking."She told CNN last summer that she doesn't concern herself with a condemned inmate's guilt or innocence. It's easy to forgive the innocent, she said. It's the guilty who test our morality.A 'potential' witnessAssistant U.S. Attorney William Weinreb responded that prosecutors planned to file legal papers seeking to exclude Prejean's testimony, according to a transcript purchased by CNN. The legal papers have not been made public.A dispute over Prejean's testimony led to hours of legal wrangling behind closed doors and a decision by the judge to send the jury home at lunchtime. If she testifies at all, it will be on Monday and any testimony will likely to be very limited and focused.The defense has been working for more than a week to convince jurors to spare the life of the 21-year-old Tsarnaev. With his late brother, Tamerlan, he set off two homemade bombs near the finish line of the 2013 marathon; three people died in the blasts and another 17 lost limbs.Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed during a gun battle with police three days after the bombing.JUST WATCHED Tsarnaev cries in court as relative testifies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tsarnaev cries in court as relative testifies 01:04The defense has portrayed Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who was called Jahar, as a likeable but lost boy under the sway of an older brother obsessed with radical Islam and waging jihad. Some 40 witnesses -- including relatives brought from Russia and former teachers and classmates -- portrayed Tamerlan as overbearing and sometimes violent, but "kind" was the word used most often to describe Jahar.Clarke has acknowledged Tsarnaev's role in the bombings, but insists they would never have happened if not for Tamerlan.Longtime fight against executionsNow in her mid-70s, Prejean embarked on a mission three decades ago to end the death penalty based on her Catholic faith and belief in human rights. She says the Universal Declaration of Human Rights forbids torture, cruel and unusual punishment and degrading treatment.Prejean believes executions are a form of torture, as is waiting for them.She spends much of her time ministering to the condemned men, and they are mostly men, on death row. "You are a son of God," she tells them. "Christ is with you. What is being done to you is wrong."Photos: Death row's nun Photos: Death row's nun Sister Helen Prejean has been on a mission to end the death penalty for three decades. The Roman Catholic nun rose to fame after the success of her book and the subsequent 1995 film adaptation, "Dead Man Walking." Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun A young Prejean, right, and her sister Mary Ann with their father. She grew up, she says, in a privileged home in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, oblivious to the racism and poverty around her. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun In her youth, Prejean jokes, a Catholic woman had two choices: get married or become a nun. She picked the latter and joined the Congregation of St. Joseph in 1957. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean on the set with Susan Sarandon and Tim Robbins during the filming of "Dead Man Walking." Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean visits Dobie Gillis Williams on death row at the Louisiana State Penitentiary in 1996. Williams, who had an IQ of 65 and was convicted by an all-white jury, was executed in 1999. Prejean says he was innocent. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean's sister Mary Ann and brother Louie accompanied her to Notre Dame University when she won the 1996 Laetare Medal, awarded for outstanding service to the Catholic church and society. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean speaks to the media after Lori Urs, right, married Joseph O'Dell just hours before his execution in Virginia in 1997. Prejean believes O'Dell was innocent, too. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean visited Karla Faye Tucker, who was executed in 1998 for murders. Tucker said she got sexual gratification from the killings but later became a Christian. Prejean thought the clemency board ought to have considered the change in Tucker. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean wrote her second book, "The Death of Innocents: An Eyewitness Account of Wrongful Executions" in Montana. In it, she challenges Justice Antonin Scalia's support for the death penalty and questions his Catholic faith. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean, right, talks with James Allridge's attorney Jim Marcus after the execution of his client in 2004. Allridge had asked for clemency based on apparent rehabilitation and a quest for redemption. Prejean believes Texas should have looked at those factors because its capital statute emphasizes, as it did in Allridge's death sentence, the "future dangerousness" of the convicted. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean was by Gov. Jon Corzine's side in 2007 as he signed a bill to repeal the death penalty in New Jersey, the first state to abolish executions through legislation since it was reinstated in 1976. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean speaks to an audience at Clarke University in Dubuque, Iowa, in 2012. Even at 75, she's on the road many days a year speaking to audiences about why she believes the death penalty is wrong. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Death row's nun Prejean leaves the courthouse in Boston on May 11, 2015, after testifying in the death penalty trial of Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. She said she believed Tsarnaev was "genuinely sorry" for the pain and suffering he inflicted on his victims. Three people were killed and 260 were injured in the 2013 bombings. Hide Caption 13 of 13Prejean was raised middle class and Catholic in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and decided to become a nun. Her social conscience was awakened during the 1980s, and she decided to work with the poor. She found plenty of poor, black people who needed her at the St. Thomas housing project in New Orleans.She began to correspond with an inmate at the notorious Angola State Prison, Elmo Patrick Sonnier; he had been convicted of a brutal kidnapping, rape and double murder.He told her he was Catholic. She visited him at Angola, saw a human being and was present on the day he was executed -- April 5, 1984, in an electric chair called "Gruesome Gertie." She has witnessed five other executions since them.She wrote two books about capital punishment, including "Dead Man Walking," which was turned into a movie starring Susan Sarandon and Sean Penn.Was he defiant?Weinreb also said during Wednesday's sidebar conversations that prosecutors wanted to introduce "defiant notes" Tsarnaev wrote in his hospital bed as he recovered from being shot by police during his capture."Your honor, two days when he lay in the bed in Beth Israel (hospital), he wrote one defiant note after another," Weinreb told O'Toole.The defense had called a federal marshal, who testified that Tsarnaev apologized after he was scolded for raising his middle finger at a surveillance camera in a holding cell at the courthouse.Prosecutors had planned to show the notes to the jury if the defense argued that Tsarnaev had not been defiant while in custody.