(CNN) At least seven people were killed and more than 200 others were injured when an Amtrak train jumped the rails in Philadelphia on Tuesday night as it was headed from Washington to New York. The death toll is among the largest for train wrecks in the United States in the last two decades.Here are some of the deadliest U.S. passenger train wrecks since 2000:• September 12, 2008Casualties: 25 killed; more than 100 injuredWhere: Chatsworth, California, near Los AngelesWhat: A Metrolink commuter train and a Union Pacific freight train A Metrolink commuter train and a Union Pacific freight train collided head-on in the late afternoon. The Metrolink's locomotive and one of its three passenger cars derailed; two of the freight train's locomotives and 10 of its 17 cars derailed.Why: The National Transportation Safety Board determined that the Metrolink engineer -- among those killed in the wreck -- was distracted while he was text messaging someone on a phone, and that he therefore failed to stop his train at a red signal. Metrolink already had prohibited its engineers from using wireless devices while operating trains. The NTSB said the crash could have been avoided if the Metrolink train had had positive train control technology, which combines GPS and other technology to monitor trains and stop them from colliding, derailing or speeding.As a result: The NTSB recommended that all rail companies install cameras and audio recorders at the controls so bosses could occasionally review whether their engineers were breaking cell phone rules. Congress ordered the nation's railroads to adopt positive train control by December 2015.• September 26, 2005Casualties: 11 killedWhere: Glendale, California, near Los AngelesWhat: A Metrolink commuter train struck an unoccupied Jeep Cherokee that a man had parked on the railroad tracks. The southbound train derailed, ran into a northbound Metrolink train and then crashed into a Union Pacific train that was parked nearby. Until 2008 (above), this would be Metrolink's deadliest crash.Why: Prosecutors accused Juan Manuel Alvarez of parking the vehicle on the tracks, intending to kill commuters, so he could get attention from his estranged wife, Prosecutors accused Juan Manuel Alvarez of parking the vehicle on the tracks, intending to kill commuters, so he could get attention from his estranged wife, the Los Angeles Times reported . Defense attorneys claimed Alvarez parked the vehicle there intending to commit suicide, but changed his mind and exited the vehicle before the train arrived, according to the Los Angeles Times.As a result: Alvarez was convicted of murder in 2008 and sentenced to life in prison.• June 22, 2009Casualties: Nine killed; dozens injuredWhere: Washington.What: One Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority commuter train (Train 112) struck the rear of another (Train 214) that was stopped near the Red Line's Fort Totten station during rush hour about 5 p.m. The rear car of Train 214 telescoped about 63 feet into the lead car of Train 112, the NTSB said. All nine people who died were on Train 112, and that included 112's operator.Why: A track circuit component that is supposed to detect trains failed in the area where Train 214 was stopped -- meaning Train 214 was A track circuit component that is supposed to detect trains failed in the area where Train 214 was stopped -- meaning Train 214 was invisible to Washington Metro's automatic train control system . Since Train 214 was essentially invisible, the system commanded Train 112 to keep going right into the back of 214, the NTSB found. The NTSB said the crash would have been avoided had Washington Metro properly tested its system.As a result: The NTSB made a number of safety oversight and equipment inspection recommendations.• June 24, 2011Casualties: Six killed; 16 injuredWhere: A desert in Churchill County, NevadaWhat: A heavy commercial truck A heavy commercial truck struck an Amtrak passenger train at a crossing, killing the truck driver, the train conductor and four train passengers. The train was headed from Chicago to Emeryville, California.Why: The NTSB said the driver was inattentive, asserting that although the crossing signals were active when the truck was nearly a half-mile away, the driver didn't start braking until his truck was 300 feet from the crossing. The NTSB also said nine of the truck's 16 brakes were out of adjustment or inoperative.As a result: The NTSB made 20 safety recommendations to a number of parties, including the truck driver's employer.• February 3, 2015Casualties: Six killed; more than a dozen injuredWhere: Valhalla, New YorkWhat: A Metro-North passenger train struck an SUV at a crossing at 6:26 p.m. Witnesses said the SUV was stopped in the crossing when the crossing gates came down, striking the rear of the SUV, A Metro-North passenger train struck an SUV at a crossing at 6:26 p.m. Witnesses said the SUV was stopped in the crossing when the crossing gates came down, striking the rear of the SUV, according to a preliminary NTSB report. The SUV driver got out, looked at the back of the SUV, re-entered the vehicle, drove forward and was struck by the train, the preliminary report says. The train's engineer applied emergency brakes, but the train, though it had been going just under a 60 mph limit, did not stop in time, the NTSB said. Killed were five train passengers and the SUV driver.Why: The NTSB is investigating.• April 18, 2002Casualties: Four killed; 142 injured, including 36 seriouslyWhere: Near Crescent City, FloridaWhat: An Amtrak train carrying 446 people derailed on a left-hand curve of a CSX-owned track. Twenty-one of the train's 40 cars were off the rail.Why: The NTSB said the track buckled, blaming what it said was CSX's inadequate track resurfacing operations. The buckle happened where a CSX resurfacing crew had been working. According to the NTSB, the crew had shored up the track after a substantial drop in temperature only to see it expand and buckle a few days later when temperatures rose.As a result: The NTSB recommended, among other things, that CSX start a quality-control program for its track surfacing workers.• December 1, 2013Casualties: Four killed; at least 61 others injuredWhere: Bronx, New YorkWhat: A Metro-North passenger train, heading from Poughkeepsie to Manhattan's Grand Central Terminal, derailed at a left-hand curve. The lead car came to rest inches from water at the intersection of the Hudson and Harlem rivers.