(CNN) The FIFA fallout continues. Texas could see more storms for the next five days. And comedian Tracy Morgan settles with Walmart over a deadly crash.It's Thursday, and here are five things to know for your New Day:FIFA INVESTIGATIONIn the end, FIFA became a household name in the U.S. not because of soccer, but alleged fraud. Allegations of corruption at FIFA are nothing new to those who follow the international soccer body. But what was surprising to some yesterday was that someone was finally doing something about it. The U.S. Justice Department unsealed a 47-count indictment in federal court in Brooklyn that detailed charges against 14 people accused of racketeering, wire fraud and money laundering conspiracy. What happens next?ANTHRAXBig mistake: Four Defense Department workers in the United States and up to 22 overseas are in post-exposure treatment after the U.S. military inadvertently shipped live anthrax samples recently. : Four Defense Department workers in the United States and up to 22 overseas are in post-exposure treatment after the U.S. military inadvertently shipped live anthrax samples recently. A Maryland-based lab received the live samples yesterday , which prompted an urgent review to see whether any other live anthrax has been shipped.JUST WATCHED Army lab mistakenly ships live Anthrax spores Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Army lab mistakenly ships live Anthrax spores 01:53FLOODSIt's not over yet: Houston, one of the hardest-hit cities in the flooding, could see more storms for at least the next five days. What's worse: Areas farther north, including Dallas, could get another 2 to 4 inches of rain through Sunday, and parts of eastern Oklahoma will get deluged with 4 to 6 inches of rain. That means Houston, one of the hardest-hit cities in the flooding, could see more storms for at least the next five days. What's worse: Areas farther north, including Dallas, could get another 2 to 4 inches of rain through Sunday, and parts of eastern Oklahoma will get deluged with 4 to 6 inches of rain. That means runoff could rush downstream to Houston, inundating parts of the city once again. Southwest of Houston, officials in Wharton, Texas, called for a voluntary evacuation on the western side of the city as forecasters warned that the Colorado River was likely to rise above flood stage by today.JUST WATCHED Race to find survivors after Texas flood Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Race to find survivors after Texas flood 02:38TRACY MORGANSuit settled: Comedian Tracy Morgan Comedian Tracy Morgan has settled with Walmart for an undisclosed amount over the deadly car crash that left him seriously injured. A Walmart tractor-trailer rear-ended the limo bus Morgan was in in New Jersey last year. The collision killed Morgan's friend and fellow comedian, James McNair.IRSMassive theft: The IRS believes that a major cyber breach that allowed criminals to steal the tax returns of more than 100,000 people originated in Russia, The IRS believes that a major cyber breach that allowed criminals to steal the tax returns of more than 100,000 people originated in Russia, two sources briefed on the data theft tell CNN . On Tuesday, the Internal Revenue Service announced that organized crime syndicates used personal data obtained elsewhere to access tax information, which they then used to file $50 million in fraudulent tax refunds.