It's Thursday and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day.CAPITOL ATTACK PLOTAn Ohio man has been arrested for allegedly plotting to attack the U.S. Capitol . Christopher Lee Cornell, 20, came to the FBI's attention several months ago for alarming social media posts in which he talked about his support for violent jihad, according to a criminal complaint. He was plotting, with an undercover FBI operative, to set off pipe bombs in the Capitol and shoot people as they fled, the complaint said. Cornell and the operative allegedly met in Cincinnati in October and again in November. A source says the plan posed no threat to lawmakers.PARIS ATTACKSThat didn't last long: Another million copies of the latest issue of Charlie Hebdo will be back on Paris newsstands this morning after selling out the day before. Three million copies were sold in the initial run, which may now be expanded to 5 million. It's the first time the French satirical magazine has been published since last week's rampage that killed 12 people and wounded another 11. The cover features a cartoon of the Prophet Mohammed crying. Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula has claimed responsibility for last week's rampage.JUST WATCHED French Muslims react to new Charlie Hebdo cover Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH French Muslims react to new Charlie Hebdo cover 01:51ISIS VIDEO BOY EXECUTIONA new first: ISIS finds another way to shock us in one of its ISIS finds another way to shock us in one of its latest propaganda videos . A boy with a pistol appears to execute two men who are accused of being Russian spies. The theatrically produced video is called "Uncovering an Enemy Within." CNN cannot verify the authenticity of the video, but it appears to be the first time ISIS has shown a child carrying out an execution. In earlier ISIS videos, the boy named Abdullah says that he's from Kazakhstan and wants to grow up to kill "infidels." ISIS has used shocking imagery of children in the past. In August, a 7-year-old Australian boy held a man's severed head.JUST WATCHED ISIS claims video shows boy executing spies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH ISIS claims video shows boy executing spies 03:09EL CAPITAN CLIMBAmazing feat (and hands): Tommy Caldwell and Kevin Jorgeson are now a part of history. They're the Tommy Caldwell and Kevin Jorgeson are now a part of history. They're the first free climbers to scale the notoriously difficult Dawn Wall of El Capitan at Yosemite National Park. Free climbing means they reached the summit using only their hands and feet. Caldwell and Jorgeson had ropes too, but they were only there to catch them if they fell. The two men started scaling the 3,000-foot rock formation back on December 27 and reached the top yesterday.JUST WATCHED Climbers summit Yosemite's El Capitan via Dawn Wall Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Climbers summit Yosemite's El Capitan via Dawn Wall 01:23OSCARSWho does Oscar like?: Movie nerds, this is your morning. The Movie nerds, this is your morning. The Oscar nominations come out and then the debate can begin. The folks that follow such things say "Boyhood," "Birdman" and "Selma" are locks for Oscar nods in the Best Picture category. A couple of others expected to make it are the British period dramas "The Imitation Game" and "The Theory of Everything." The Oscar nominations will be announced this morning, starting at 8:30 a.m. ET. The Academy Awards show is February 22.There you go. All you need to know to get an early start to your morning.