It's Monday, and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayWINTER STORMHOME DEPOT SHOOTINGDeadly gunfire: Shoppers, who crowded into a Shoppers, who crowded into a Manhattan Home Depot store to prepare for the snowstorm, fled back into the streets yesterday after an employee shot a store manager and then himself, the NYPD said. The 38-year-old manager was later pronounced dead at a local hospital. The 31-year-old shooter died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound at the store, according to the NYPD.JUST WATCHED NY police: Shooting in Home Depot store leaves 2 dead Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NY police: Shooting in Home Depot store leaves 2 dead 01:03SCREEN ACTORS GUILD AWARDSSAGs take flight: "Birdman" won the big prize -- outstanding motion picture cast -- at the "Birdman" won the big prize -- outstanding motion picture cast -- at the 21st Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards last night. Best male actor went to Eddie Redmayne in "The Theory of Everything." Julianne Moore snapped up the award for best actress for her role in "Still Alice." On the TV side, "Orange Is the New Black" won for best comedy series. "Downton Abbey" took home best TV drama series. The SAG Awards are closely watched for indicators about which way the wind is blowing for next month's Academy Awards.JUST WATCHED 'Birdman' flies high at SAG Awards Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Birdman' flies high at SAG Awards 00:10ISIS JAPANESE HOSTAGESHostage crisis: The The Japanese government is grappling with an unpredictable hostage crisis whose terms are being dictated by the Islamist extremist group ISIS. The militants appear to have killed one of the two Japanese hostages they have been holding. And they're apparently demanding the release of a convicted terrorist in Jordan to spare the life of the other. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe condemned the apparent killing and called for the other Japanese hostage to be released immediately.JUST WATCHED ISIS demands release of bomber Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH ISIS demands release of bomber 04:39CRAIGSLIST MISSING COUPLEMissing: Police are looking for a suspect in the case of Police are looking for a suspect in the case of a Georgia couple who went missing after contacting a car seller on Craigslist. Elrey Runion and his wife, June, placed an ad looking for a 1966 Mustang and then drove to rural McRae from the Atlanta suburb of Marietta last week to meet someone who said he had a car like the one they wanted, relatives said. No one has heard from them since. Ronnie "Jay" Adrian Towns was the "last known communications" with Runion, said Sheriff Chris Steverson of Telfair County.JUST WATCHED Couple missing after Craigslist meet-up Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Couple missing after Craigslist meet-up 01:14There you go. All you need to know to get an early start to your morning.