(CNN) The blizzard of 2015 is just about a memory. Meteorologists take heat for their forecast. And Ghostbusters goes all-girl.It's Wednesday and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day.WINTER STORMGrab a shovel: It's pretty much done snowing in the Northeast; now it's time to dig out. Eastern Massachusetts bore the brunt of the storm. Boston's Logan International Airport got more than 2 feet of snow. In Auburn and Worcester, the total topped 30 inches. Most of the travel restrictions have been dropped across the region. The blizzard warnings are gone. A few days of digging out and things should be pretty much back to normal.SNOWPERBOLEHindsight: The The Blizzard of 2015 didn't turn out to be as epic as we were first led to believe. Sure, some parts of Massachusetts got 30-plus inches of snow, but New York City dodged a good bit of the storm, and so did a lot of other areas. Parts of the Northeast were so underwhelmed it prompted the hashtag #snowFail. The really sarcastic folks have opted for the term "snowperbole." It's defined as "exaggerated statements or claims about snowfall amounts that aren't meant to be taken seriously." While some say forecasters "cried wolf," New York Mayor Bill de Blasio says "better safe than sorry."#snowperbole historic claim of nothing... #winterstormjuno as is... "Juno where all the snow went?" A photo posted by Joe Talaiver (@jtalaiver) on Jan 27, 2015 at 6:20am PSTLIBYA HOTEL ATTACKDeadly attack: The Libyan branch of the Islamic State has taken credit for yesterday's The Libyan branch of the Islamic State has taken credit for yesterday's attack on the Corinthia Hotel in Tripoli. The attack left 10 dead including one American, one French citizen, three people from Tajikistan, five Libyans. The two attackers also died. An online group that supports ISIS said the attack was carried out in the name of Abu Anas al-Libi. Al-Libi was an alleged al Qaeda operative accused of involvement in the bombing of U.S. embassies in Africa. He was captured by U.S. special forces in Libya. He died in a U.S. hospital this month.JUST WATCHED American killed in Libya hotel attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH American killed in Libya hotel attack 02:07ISIS Japan JordanAnother threat: A video file posted online yesterday is supposed to relay a new message from A video file posted online yesterday is supposed to relay a new message from Japanese ISIS hostage Kenji Goto : He and a captive Jordanian military pilot will be killed in the next 24 hours if Jordan doesn't release a convicted would-be suicide bomber. It is the second purported message from Goto in four days. If authentic, it is the first time ISIS is publicly linking the fates of Goto and the captive Jordanian pilot, Moaz al-Kassasbeh, whom ISIS captured after his jet crashed last month in Syria. In the ISIS proposal, Goto would go free if Jordan releases longtime prisoner Sajida al-Rishawi.JUST WATCHED New threat claimed in ISIS hostage video Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New threat claimed in ISIS hostage video 02:08GHOSTBUSTERSWho ya gonna call?: This time it will be girl This time it will be girl Ghostbusters who deal with those pesky poltergeists. Paul Feig is set to direct the reboot of the 1984 comedy, but this time with all-female leads. The Hollywood Reporter says Melissa McCarthy, Kristen Wiig, Leslie Jones and Kate McKinnon will strap on on the proton packs first worn by Bill Murrary, Dan Aykroyd, Harold Ramis and Ernie Hudson. Filming is slated to begin this summer in New York.There you go. All you need to know to get an early start to your morning.Be sure to tune in to "New Day," from 6 to 9 a.m. ET, join us at NewDayCNN.com and go and have a GREAT NEW DAY!