(CNN) New York's mayor tries to defuse tensions. North Korea has its Internet back. And rock and roll says goodbye to an iconic voice.It's Tuesday and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day1. NYPD COP KILLINGSTurning blue: New York Mayor Bill de Blasio is catching plenty of heat in the aftermath of the execution-style killings of two of the city's cops over the weekend. Critics -- including those in the police force -- accuse him of stoking an anti-police fervor that contributed to the deaths of officers Wenjian Liu and Rafael Ramos. He came into office promising police reform. Now he's trying to cool tensions after encouraging people to protest the killings of Michael Brown and Eric Garner, two unarmed African-American men, at the hands of white police officers. Neither officer was charged. He said the murders this weekend were "an attack on all of us" and called for a hiatus from the protests.De Blasio: This was an attack on all of usDe Blasio: This was an attack on all of us 03:17De Blasio: This was an attack on all of us2. MILWAUKEE POLICE SHOOTINGNo charges here: A district attorney in Wisconsin has decided against filing charges against a police officer who fatally shot a mentally ill man more than a dozen times in Milwaukee. The officer, Christopher Manney, killed Dontre Hamilton during a confrontation in April. The officer says he opened fire when Hamilton grabbed his baton and struck him with it. Manney has since been fired for not following protocols, but he will not be charged. As in the Brown and Garner cases, Hamilton was black and Manney is white. The U.S. Department of Justice will review the case.JUST WATCHED DA: Use of force justified in shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH DA: Use of force justified in shooting 01:383. NORTH KOREA INTERNETMessage sent?: North Korea's Internet appears to be back up after a more than nine-hour outage, according to a company that monitors such things. The disruption came in the midst of an escalating war of words between the United States and North Korea over a massive cyberattack on Sony Pictures. The United States blames North Korea for the Sony hack; North Korea denies it was involved. It's not clear what caused the outage, but it brought down major websites that are hosted inside the country. There were no problems accessing pro-Pyongyang pages that have servers elsewhere, the South Korean news agency Yonhap reported.4. HOLIDAY TRAVEL WEATHERChristmas countdown: Getting to grandma's house could be a bit sloppy the next two days, especially in the eastern third of the country. Rain, storms, wind and even a little snow is predicted, forecasters say. Severe storms, damaging winds, large hail and possibly isolated tornadoes are predicted in the Deep South. Plenty of rain will douse the region. The foul weather could mean airport delays up and down the East Coast. The Northwest can expect lots of moisture too, which could turn to snow as it heads toward the Midwest later in the week.JUST WATCHED Will bad weather mess up holiday travel? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Will bad weather mess up holiday travel? 02:145. JOE COCKERClassic rocker gone: His raspy voice brought us the hits "You Are So Beautiful" and "Up Where We Belong." Joe Cocker died yesterday after a battle with lung cancer. He was 70. His performing career spanned some 50 years, from Woodstock, where he immortalized the Beatles' "With a Little Help From My Friends," to today. He had tour dates scheduled well into 2015. Cocker was one of rock music's iconic voices.JUST WATCHED 1998: Joe Cocker reflects on his career Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 1998: Joe Cocker reflects on his career 01:13Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.-- Mad Dogs & Englishmen: The New Day blog wouldn't be doing its job if we didn't offer you a second helping of Joe Cocker. Here's "Cry Me a River" from 1970.-- Didn't expect this: Ever wonder what happens to the money you give a homeless person? Here's what one man did.-- Coffee Kiss: Back in 2000, rocker Paul Stanley appeared and sang in a commercial for Folger's. The company never aired it, but we get to see it now. You won't confuse it with "Rock and Roll All Nite."-- Not Kiss: These classical musicians put on a show in the NYC subway before being joined midway by a troupe of ballet dancers. It's an impromptu get together, or so we're told.-- Droning on: Here's a little video from the Federal Aviation Administration you should watch, just in case you get a quadcopter for Christmas.There you go. All you need to know to get an early start to your morning.Be sure to tune in to "New Day," from 6 to 9 a.m. ET, join us at NewDayCNN.com and go and have a GREAT NEW DAY!