(CNN) The terror threat spreads in Europe. The U.S. eases Cuba travel restrictions. And Duke backs away from allowing a Muslim call to prayer.It's Friday and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day.BELGIUM ANTI-TERROR OPERATIONFRANCE ATTACKSAdieu: The goodbyes continue in the aftermath of the terror attack on the Charlie Hebdo offices last week. Funerals are being held today for magazine editor Stephane "Charb" Charbonnier, illustrator Philippe Honore and Algerian-born copy editor Mustapha Ourrad. They were among the 12 killed when brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi burst into the newsroom and gunned down staffers. Another 11 were wounded. In addition, : The goodbyes continue in the aftermath of the terror attack on the Charlie Hebdo offices last week. Funerals are being held today for magazine editor Stephane "Charb" Charbonnier, illustrator Philippe Honore and Algerian-born copy editor Mustapha Ourrad. They were among the 12 killed when brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi burst into the newsroom and gunned down staffers. Another 11 were wounded. In addition, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry met in Paris today with French President Francois Hollande and Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius.JUST WATCHED What will lasting effects of French terror attacks be? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What will lasting effects of French terror attacks be? 03:55CUBA RESTRICTIONS EASEDHavana here we come: It just got a lot easier for It just got a lot easier for Americans to travel to Cuba . The Obama Administration has softened restrictions. Cuban Americans traveling to see family members, American officials on government trips, journalists on assignment on the island as well as everyday citizens visiting for educational, cultural, religious reasons will no longer need permission first. President Barack Obama originally announced the change in U.S. policy on Cuba on Dec. 17.JUST WATCHED Pres. Carter on the thaw with Cuba Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pres. Carter on the thaw with Cuba 05:20OKLAHOMA EXECUTIONDeath sentence: Oklahoma has executed its first inmate since a controversial lethal injection in April. Oklahoma has executed its first inmate since a controversial lethal injection in April. Charles Frederick Warner was put to death last night for the rape and murder of his then-girlfriend's 11-month-old daughter in the summer of 1997. Warner was originally scheduled to die on the same night as Clayton Lockett -- April 29, 2014 -- but the execution was called off after the state took 43 minutes to execute Lockett. He was convulsing and writhing on the gurney. The execution was halted, but Lockett eventually died. His execution was the first in the state to use a new cocktail of drugs to end his life.Warner was convicted in 2013 for the rape and murder of his then-girlfriend's 11-month-old daughter in summer 1997.DUKE MUSLIM PRAYERSNo, let's not: has backed away from its decision to allow a Muslim call to prayer to sound from a campus chapel bell tower on Fridays. Plans changed because the school's effort to "unify was not having the intended effect," said Duke spokesman Michael Schoenfeld. The Duke Muslim Students Association had planned to chant the call from the Duke Chapel bell tower. It signals the beginning of the weekly prayer service. Franklin Graham, son of legendary evangelist Billy Graham, applauded the school for the reversal. Others expressed their disappointment over it, saying Duke had bowed to political correctness. Duke University has backed away from its decision to allow a Muslim call to prayer to sound from a campus chapel bell tower on Fridays. Plans changed because the school's effort to "unify was not having the intended effect," said Duke spokesman Michael Schoenfeld. The Duke Muslim Students Association had planned to chant the call from the Duke Chapel bell tower. It signals the beginning of the weekly prayer service. Franklin Graham, son of legendary evangelist Billy Graham, applauded the school for the reversal. Others expressed their disappointment over it, saying Duke had bowed to political correctness.JUST WATCHED Duke reverses decision to allow Muslim call to prayer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Duke reverses decision to allow Muslim call to prayer 01:30There you go. All you need to know to get an early start to your morning.Be sure to tune in to "New Day," from 6 to 9 a.m. ET, join us at NewDayCNN.com and go and have a GREAT NEW DAY!