(CNN) Wednesday was a day for digging out in New England. But forecasters are warning more snow might be on the way.To be sure, it will be nothing compared to what has already fallen this week. Worcester, Massachusetts, received a record 34.5 inches from Monday through Wednesday."There's so much of it, you have a problem because there's just nothing to do with it," a resident told CNN affiliate WHDH.He compared it with a blizzard in 1978 and a storm in 2013."This is much worse," he said. "It just never stopped."For many people in New England this blizzard brought whiteout conditions from heavy snow and wind greater than 35 mph for as long as 14 hours. In towns and cities from Connecticut to Massachusetts to New Hampshire there were plenty of folks who were digging through more than 30 inches of fresh snow on sidewalks and driveways.Homeowners weren't just dealing with the question of where to put all the snow. Some had to call their insurance agents, like residents of 11 homes in Marshfield, Massachusetts, where there was significant damage after a seawall breach.Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Dexter Newcomb begins cleanup at his house in Scituate, Massachusetts, on Wednesday, January 28, a day after a winter storm left his neighborhood coated in frozen sea spray and sand. Hide Caption 1 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Cars in Norwood, Massachusetts, sit buried by snow drifts on January 28. The first blizzard of 2015 dumped nearly 3 feet of snow in parts of four Northeastern states. Massachusetts was hit the hardest. Hide Caption 2 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Workers continue snow removal efforts in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston on January 28. Hide Caption 3 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A man battles strong winds in Portland, Maine, on Tuesday, January 27. Hide Caption 4 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A wave slams into a sea wall in Scituate as evening high tide approaches on January 27. Hide Caption 5 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Snow piles up at the entrance of a closed T station in Boston on January 27. The city's public transit system was set to reopen the next day. Hide Caption 6 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast U.S. Army soldier Jennifer Bruno carries belongings from her house, center rear, which was heavily damaged by storm surge in Marshfield, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 7 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Icy water floods a street in Scituate on January 27. Hide Caption 8 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Snow clings to a man's face as he shovels a sidewalk in Portland, Maine, on January 27. Hide Caption 9 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A person skis down Memorial Drive in Cambridge, Massachusetts, on January 27. Hide Caption 10 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Plows clear snow off the Long Island Expressway in Melville, New York, on January 27. Hide Caption 11 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Plows line up at airplane gates at Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks, Connecticut, on January 27. Hide Caption 12 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A worker clears snow in Newtown, Pennsylvania, on January 27. Hide Caption 13 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Workers clear the platform at the Long Island Rail Road station in Glen Head, New York, on January 27. Hide Caption 14 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A man clears his snow-covered car on the Upper West Side in New York City on January 27. Hide Caption 15 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast An emergency vehicle drives down a snowy street in Winthrop, Massachusetts, on January 27. Hide Caption 16 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Fishing boats ride out the storm at a dock in Scituate on January 27. Hide Caption 17 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A woman walks her dog as snow swirls around the Bunker Hill Monument in Boston on Monday, January 26. Hide Caption 18 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Snow falls around the Empire State Building in New York on January 26. Hide Caption 19 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast People walk through falling snow in Hoboken, New Jersey, on January 26. Hide Caption 20 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Two passengers ride a subway car in New York on January 26. Hide Caption 21 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast People look out from office building windows as snow falls in downtown Philadelphia on January 26. Hide Caption 22 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A man stands in front of a screen listing departing flights at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport on January 26. Hide Caption 23 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast People cross a street covered in snow in New York's Times Square on January 26. Hide Caption 24 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast As the snow moves in, residents pick up some last-minute items at King's Highway Stop & Shop in New Bedford, Massachusetts, on January 26. Hide Caption 25 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast People walk near Penn Station on New York's Seventh Avenue while a major snowstorm begins on January 26. Hide Caption 26 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A tugboat sails on the East River in New York on January 26. Hide Caption 27 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Travelers wait for their train platform to be announced at New York's Penn Station on January 26. Hide Caption 28 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast The New York skyline is seen from Liberty State Park in Jersey City, New Jersey, on January 26. Hide Caption 29 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A pedestrian passes through Johnstown Central Park in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, on January 26. Hide Caption 30 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Snow falls on pedestrians in New York on January 26. Hide Caption 31 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A plane is de-iced at New York's LaGuardia Airport on January 26. Thousands of flights were canceled in anticipation of the storm. Hide Caption 32 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A man buys a shovel in Winthrop, Massachusetts, on January 26. Hide Caption 33 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Commuters travel across the Zakim Bunker Hill Bridge into downtown Boston on January 26. Hide Caption 34 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A cyclist in New York navigates between parked cars and a sanitation truck with a snow plow on it on January 26. Hide Caption 35 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Passengers talk with a ticket agent at LaGuardia Airport to try to beat the snowstorm on January 26. Hide Caption 36 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast Traffic moves through falling snow near Evans City, Pennsylvania, on January 26. Hide Caption 37 of 38 Photos: Massive storm hammers Northeast A New York City snowplow, loaded with salt, sits in midtown Manhattan as light snow falls on January 26. Hide Caption 38 of 38After deserting the streets Tuesday as the storm struck, traffic moved again along major roads in Massachusetts and beyond. Boston's Logan International Airport accepted incoming flights around 8 a.m., according to spokesman Matthew Brelis. Buses and trains in Massachusetts -- including the Boston-area subway system, the "T" -- ran again, with major roads reopened as well, said incoming state Transportation Secretary Stephanie Pollack.But schools in Boston were closed, as they will be Thursday. The National Weather Service said Wednesday that another system is moving toward the area and several more inches of snow could come down Thursday night into Friday night. The high on Saturday is forecast to be 16 degrees.CNN senior meteorologist Dave Hennen said as the low pressure develops off the coast, damaging winds might yet again be in store for New England on Friday and Saturday.A harsh reality for those hit by feet of snowIf anyone has a right to complain, it was those digging out Wednesday not just in New England but also on New York's Long Island.The weather service reported that Orient on the tip of Long Island, ended up with 30 inches of snow. That's about 10 inches more than fell across Long Island Sound in New London, Connecticut, though Mayor Daryl Justin Finizio noted that his city has up to 8-foot drifts and some roads that were still impassable Wednesday morning."We're getting there," said Finizio. "But it will be another day or two digging out from this. This isn't going anywhere."JUST WATCHED Battling to dig out of the blizzard Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Battling to dig out of the blizzard 04:05"There are still a few dead ends that we still need to punch through to get to, to make sure that people can get out of their houses," the mayor said.One good thing: Because it was colder than expected, most of the snow didn't weigh enough to snap too many limbs down onto too many power lines. So instead of 300,000 power outages in Massachusetts, as authorities had feared, the number topped out at 36,000, according to Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency spokesman Peter Judge."Although we may end up with record snow, it's not going to be a record disaster, which it could have very well been," Judge said.Blizzard babies bornStill, any outage can be deadly in a winter storm like this. And at one point an entire island, Nantucket, was in the dark.Four hours after the power went out, Danielle Smith gave birth to her first child at Nantucket Cottage Hospital -- with a few lights on and some heat, thanks to the facility's generator."And Danielle is a superstar," said Dr. Margaret Koehm, who noted that a "blizzard girl" joined Smith's "blizzard boy," Cayden, a short time later at the same hospital. "She did it all naturally."JUST WATCHED Baby boy born during Nantucket blizzard Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Baby boy born during Nantucket blizzard 04:55In central Connecticut, Heather Klein felt her contractions coming on overnight Monday. After getting the OK from Hartford police to break the travel ban, she drove in and settled into the hospital in time for the birth of her baby, Anna.Mom and baby had plenty of quality time together Tuesday, since visitors couldn't hit the roads to come see them."It's so boring," Klein said. "I can't wait to go home."Homes destroyed in coastal townFor Jennifer Bruno, there's no going home.The Iraq war veteran had evacuated to a friend's house overnight, knowing that things might not be safe in her own home of Marshfield, a town of 25,000 located 30 miles south of Boston.JUST WATCHED Blizzard destroys National Guard sergeant's home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Blizzard destroys National Guard sergeant's home 01:28When she got back home, the National Guard sergeant broke down in tears."Part of the roof collapsed, the wall, my door was missing," Bruno said of her house. "It was just destroyed."She wasn't alone, as 10 other homes in the same seaside town were also damaged after the powerful storm tore down about 50 feet of seawall. Two of the houses were damaged badly enough to be condemned.There was significant flooding there and in other coastal communities around Massachusetts, which had to deal not only with storm surges but lashing winds that in some places topped 75 mph.Even so, there is also recognition that -- for the vast majority of the 58 million people in the storm's path, especially given the dire warnings -- it could have been even worse."Despite the fact that we had record-breaking snowfall in many parts of Massachusetts," Gov. Charlie Baker said Wednesday, "we have come out of this, I think, in relatively good shape."