Story highlights Lingzi Lu was a graduate student in math and statisticsShe had gone to the race with two friendsThe day she died, she posted a picture of her breakfast to a social media websiteLike thousands of others, the graduate student from China crowded with friends around the finish line at the Boston Marathon to cheer on the runners.She had moved to the city in time for the fall semester, making friends and soaking up new experiences.The marathon was a chance to be a part of an annual ritual so cherished by Bostonians.And so she went Monday to Copley Square with two friends in tow.They were in the wrong place at the wrong time.JUST WATCHED Chinese student killed in Boston bombing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chinese student killed in Boston bombing 01:43Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A young runner, left, stops by a Boston church blocks away from the scene of the bombings. The blasts exploded near the Boston Marathon's finish line on Monday, April 15, killing three people and injuring more than 170 others. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – Unclaimed finish line bags litter the ground near the bombing sites. A day after the terror attack, authorities warned city residents to keep their guard up amid a massive investigation into the bombings. Hide Caption 2 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – Investigators work at an area of the crime scene on Boylston Street on April 16. Hide Caption 3 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – Blood is visible on a sidewalk in front of a Boston store on April 16. Hide Caption 4 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – Flowers rest against a police barricade down the street from the Boston Marathon's finish line on April 16. Hide Caption 5 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – Unused thermal blankets for runners are piled high near the scene of the bombings on April 16. Hide Caption 6 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – National Guardsmen look out from inside Boston's Back Bay Station on April 16. Hide Caption 7 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – U.S. military Humvees move down deserted Boylston Street on April 16. Hide Caption 8 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – National Guardsmen patrol the Back Bay Station on April 16 as security remains tight in Boston. Hide Caption 9 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – Pedestrians pass National Guard troops at a roadblock on April 16.Hide Caption 10 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – The unfinished meals of fleeing customers are left on tables at an outdoor restaurant in Boston on April 16. Hide Caption 11 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – People congregate at a security gate near the blast scene on April 16. Hide Caption 12 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A man jogs down a street near the scene of the bombings on April 16. Hide Caption 13 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A woman sits alone at a Boston cafe on April 16. Hide Caption 14 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A woman carries a sign she made to support her runner husband near the scene of the bombings. Hide Caption 15 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A police officer stands on duty in Boston on April 16. Hide Caption 16 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – People have breakfast at a Boston cafe on April 16. Hide Caption 17 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A Boston police officer stands near blast sites April 16. Hide Caption 18 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – National Guard troops man a roadblock April 16. Hide Caption 19 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A Boston police officer is heavily armed blocks away from the scene of the bombings. Hide Caption 20 of 21 Photos: Boston: The aftermath of terror Boston: The aftermath of terror – A runners bib lies discarded April 16. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 21 of 21JUST WATCHED Source: Bombs were in pressure cookers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Source: Bombs were in pressure cookers 02:28JUST WATCHED Student was filming Boston Marathon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Student was filming Boston Marathon 02:52Two bombs went off within 12 seconds of each other near the finish line, killing three.The graduate student was one of them.Who she wasBoston University identified her on Wednesday as Lingzi Lu, a graduate student in mathematics and statistics.The second student was in stable condition at Boston Medical Center and the third student was not hurt, BU Today said.Her photos on Facebook show her enjoying a simple student life of home-cooked meals in modest surrounding, smiles over warm cups of coffee, laughs with friends.The day she died, she posted a picture of her breakfast to the Chinese social media website Weibo -- bread and a bowl of fruit."My wonderful breakfast," she commented in English with a smiley face emoticon.Then an explosionAfter the two bombs ended the road race, Lu's roommate posted a message on Facebook."God bless the Boston community," wrote Li Jing, also from China.The blasts wounded 183 others.Li learned of that injury -- but didn't yet know her friend had died."I have been unable to reach her," she wrote on her Facebook page. "Everyone is very worried. I have reported this to BU Police. If anyone knows anything, please let me know. Thanks for everyone's help."Friends offered suggestions on how to find her.JUST WATCHED New clues in Boston Marathon attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New clues in Boston Marathon attack 02:24JUST WATCHED Bombing investigation could take time Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bombing investigation could take time 02:17JUST WATCHED From the marathon to marriage Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH From the marathon to marriage 02:42JUST WATCHED Is it possible to secure major events? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is it possible to secure major events? 02:29"Li Jing, I am so sad for your roommate...I will pray for her and pray for your soul," one posted on Facebook.Death confirmedBoston University's president announced the graduate student's death in an open letter published Tuesday on the school's website and confirmed that her friend was wounded."Our hearts and thoughts go out to the family and friends of both victims," wrote college President Robert Brown.At first, the university declined to release Lu's name at her family's request, but the school later received permission from a family representative, BU spokesman Colin Riley said.The university established the Lu Lingzi Scholarship Fund in her honor, it announced Thursday.The Chinese consulate in New York issued a statement of condolenceIn China, news of the death set off a wave of sympathy on social media sites.By Wednesday, netizens there had added more than 17,000 comments to the victim's last Weibo post about her breakfast."Wish there's no pain in heaven! May the girl rest in peace!" WenyiqingnianHarryChen posted.Tuesday evening, two university chaplains held a campus vigil for her and the other victims. It was followed by a town hall-style meeting for those in search of comfort and counseling.The graduate student died alongside Krystle Campbell, 29, and Martin Richard, 8.Her friend, Zhou Danling, is on her way to recovery at a Boston hospital.A love of math and chanceLu had worked hard to achieve. She won an academic scholarship to the Beijing Institute of Technology, where she received accolades for her math skills.She went on to Boston University to pursue that passion and was working on a master's degree in statistics.She would have known how slim the chances were that something like this could happen in a crowd of thousands cheering the runners on a sunny day.