Story highlights Clements' killer was a member of the same gang as the sought-after menThe 211 Crew is a white supremacist prison gangThe men are believed to be armed"We don't know their whereabouts," the sheriff's office saysColorado authorities are looking for two members of the white supremacist prison gang known as the 211 Crew in connection with the killing of state prisons chief Tom ClementsEl Paso County Sheriff's Office identified the two men as James Lohr, 47, and Thomas Guolee, 31. One or both could be headed toward Nevada, the office said."They are both known associates of the 211 Crew," said Sheriff's Lt. Jeff Kramer. "They are believed to be armed and dangerous."Clements was widely recognized for cracking down on prison gangs, including the 211 Crew. He was shot at his home. Police believe former gang member Evan Ebel , who was out of prison on parole, may have been the trigger man.Investigators have said they were looking into whether Ebel might have conspired with other inmates to kill Clements.JUST WATCHED Evan Ebel's red flags overlooked Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Evan Ebel's red flags overlooked 02:56JUST WATCHED Widow: Error won't bring my husband back Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Widow: Error won't bring my husband back 02:14JUST WATCHED Service for slain Colorado prison chief Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Service for slain Colorado prison chief 02:08Authorities have speculated Ebel might have killed Leon for his uniform so he could use it as a disguise in the killing of Clements, who was gunned down on March 19 after he opened his front door.Due to a clerical error, Ebel was released early on parole , which he later violated.He had been sentenced to eight years in prison in 2005 for armed robbery. In 2008, he was sentenced to another four years -- to be served consecutively -- for punching a prison guard.Two days after Clements death, Ebel died in northern Texas in a gun battle with authorities that left a sheriff's deputy wounded.Kramer said Lohr and Guolee may also pose a threat to the safety of officers who encounter them.Police have little to go on in order to track them."We don't have vehicle information," Kramer said. "We don't have a concerted search out looking for them. We don't know their whereabouts." Lohr has multiple misdemeanor warrants for his arrest unrelated to the Clements case.Guolee has a felony warrant for his arrest, also unrelated to the Clements case.Kramer declined to say whether the pair knew Ebel.