After a 24-hour manhunt that paralyzed the Boston area, authorities captured the suspect in this week's marathon bombings. In the aftermath, his older brother -- also a suspect -- lay dead, and so did a police officer believed killed by the two.A quick glance at the five major developments.CAPTUREDPolice arrested Dzhokar Tsarnaev, 19, after a long night of terror and mayhem in the Boston area.The teen bombing suspect suffered serious injuries and is hospitalized at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, a hospital spokesman said.JUST WATCHED Social media offers clues about brothers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Social media offers clues about brothers 00:10JUST WATCHED Legal rights of the suspect bomber Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Legal rights of the suspect bomber 02:42Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is detained by officers on Friday, April 19. After a car chase and shootout with police, one suspect in the Boston Marathon bombing, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, was shot and killed by police early Friday, and his brother and second suspect, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, was taken into custody Friday night. The two men are suspects in the bombings at the Boston Marathon on April 15, that killed three people and wounded at least 170. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Special imaging techniques employed by Massachusetts State Police reveal Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding in a boat in a backyard in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Dzhokhar Tsarnaev gets out of the boat he was hiding in outside of a home in Watertown, as seen in a surveillance video still. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – An ambulance carries Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, from the scene after he was apprehended in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police SWAT teams leave the area after apprehending the suspect in a yard where he was hiding in a dry-docked boat on April 19. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Residents flee from an area where a suspect was hiding on Franklin Street on April 19. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT team members run toward a police assault on a house as gunfire erupts on April 19. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – People react while watching police respond to reported gunfire on April 19. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT team members move down residential streets as they perform door-to-door searches in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A U.S. military helicopter lands behind Watertown Mall as law enforcement agencies continue to search for the 19-year-old bombing suspect on Friday. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams prepare to enter a home as they continue the door-to-door search. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – U.S. President Barack Obama meets with members of his national security team in the Situation Room of the White House on April 19 to discuss developments in the Boston bombings investigation. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT team members line a residential street in Watertown, Massachusetts, as the manhunt continues on Friday. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A man watches from the window of a home as a SWAT team member keeps watch on Friday, in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police to continue to the door-to-door search on Francis Street in Watertown, Massachusetts, on Friday. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Law enforcement officers place themselves in an overhead position on Arsenal Street as the search continues on April 19. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Law enforcement officers react to what was initially thought to be a threatening suspect on Arsenal Street on April 19. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A police SWAT team searches houses on April 19 for the second suspect. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams searches homes along Winsor Avenue in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Massachusetts state trooper watches other troopers line up at Watertown Mall as the manhunt for the second suspect continues in Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police continue the ongoing manhunt for the second suspect on Williow Avenue in Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Watertown police vehicle with bullet holes in its body and a shattered windshield is towed out of the search area on April 19 in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Massachusetts State Police officer checks the bag of a cyclist amid heightened security on Friday in Watertown. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Katia Costa looks out her window as police continue the manhunt on Nichols Avenue in Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Ruslan Tsarni, uncle of the Boston terror suspects, told CNN affiliate WBZ that Tamerlan "got what he deserved" in an interview outside his home in Montgomery Village, Maryland, on Friday. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A woman is questioned by Cambridge police and other law enforcement agencies Friday near the home of the second suspect in Cambridge, Massachusetts. A Massachusetts Institute of Technology campus police officer was shot and killed late Thursday night at the school's campus in Cambridge. A short time later, police reported exchanging gunfire with alleged carjackers in nearby Watertown. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams move into position at the intersection of Nichols and Melendy avenues in Watertown, Massachusetts, on Friday. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT teams gather at the intersection of Nichols and Melendy avenues in Watertown while searching for the remaining suspect on Friday. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Onlookers take pictures while SWAT team members look around on Friday. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick, left, speaks to the media at a shopping mall on the perimeter of a locked-down area during the search on Friday. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Metro SWAT members hang off the back of a truck during the search on Friday. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – SWAT officers check a door with guns ready on Friday. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Officers patrol Watertown on Friday. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers – The aftermath of the shootout that police said involved the two suspects in Watertown early Friday. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police with guns drawn search for a suspect on Friday in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A police officer runs with his gun drawn on Friday. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston Police gather in the parking lot in front of a Best Buy store near the Watertown Mall on Friday. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis speaks during a media briefing in the parking lot of the Watertown Mall on Friday. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Boston police gather in front of a Best Buy on Friday. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police stop cars at School and Walnut streets on Friday. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A Massachusetts state trooper checks a building along Mount Auburn Street as police search neighborhoods in Watertown. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police search neighborhoods yard by yard on Friday. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police convene on School and Walnut streets on Friday. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – A police officer talks to a driver at a checkpoint in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Photos: Manhunt for Boston bombers Manhunt for Boston bombers – Police officers keep a man on the ground in Watertown on Friday. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 45 of 45Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man removes a sign hanging from the Lennox Hotel along Boylston Street after the street reopened to the public for the first time since the Boston Marathon bombings in Boston on Wednesday, April 24. The city is trying to return to normal less than a week after two bombs exploded near the finish line of the Boston Marathon, shocking the nation and leaving the city on edge. See all photography relating to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man washes a bus stop window on Boylston Street on April 24. Hide Caption 2 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Alec Mikels cleans tables at Whiskey's Smokehouse on Boylston Street on Tuesday, April 23 in Boston. Hide Caption 3 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A cleaner power washes Boylston Street near the blast site after the FBI handed the area back to the city of Boston on Monday, April 22, following the week-long investigation. Hide Caption 4 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – The Boston Fire Department Hazardous Materials team cleans the first blast site near the finish line of the Boston Marathon on April 22. Hide Caption 5 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Cleaning material is sprayed on April 22 on the outlined blast seat on the sidewalk of Boylston Street at the site of the marathon bombings. Hide Caption 6 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A member of the Boston Fire Department Hazardous Materials team cleans the first blast site with a pressure washer on April 22. Hide Caption 7 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Brad Marchand of the Boston Bruins embraces one of the first responders from the Boston Marathon attack after the game against the Florida Panthers at the TD Garden on Sunday, April 21, in Boston. Hide Caption 8 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – David Ortiz of the Boston Red Sox speaks to the crowd during a ceremony held in honor of the bombing victims before a baseball game against the Kansas City Royals at Fenway Park in Boston, on Saturday, April 20. Hide Caption 9 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Neil Diamond sings "Sweet Caroline," a song traditionally played at Boston Red Sox home games, during a game against the Kansas City Royals on April 20. Hide Caption 10 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Members of law enforcement react during ceremonies in honor of the Marathon bombing victims before Saturday's game. Hide Caption 11 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Photos: Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A woman sheds a tear during pregame ceremonies Saturday. Hide Caption 12 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Photos: Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man holds an American flag at ceremonies before the Saturday game in Boston. Hide Caption 13 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Hundreds of people pour onto Hemingway Street in the Fenway neighborhood to celebrate after the announcement that the second Boston Marathon bombing suspect had been captured on Friday, April 19. Hide Caption 14 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Women cheer police as they exit Franklin Street on Friday, April 19, in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 15 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Officers from the Department of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives relax Friday after the capture in Watertown, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 16 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A woman gives a Boston police officer a hug and other officers are thanked during a celebration in the Boston Common on April 19. Hide Caption 17 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A member of the North Metro SWAT team pumps his fist while leaving the scene near Franklin Street on April 19. Hide Caption 18 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Around 200 people celebrate on Hemingway Street in the Fenway neighborhood after the capture of the second suspect on April 19. Hide Caption 19 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – People wave U.S. flags as police drive down the street on April 19. Hide Caption 20 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A photograph of Martin Richard, one of the victims of the Boston Marathon bombing, was placed on the plexiglass by a fan following the hockey game between the Buffalo Sabres and the New York Rangers on April 19 at the First Niagara Center in Buffalo, New York. Hide Caption 21 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man waves a U.S. flag in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 22 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Local residents cheer to news that police have captured the surviving suspect Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 23 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – President Barack Obama arrives in the White House briefing room to make a statement late April 19 about the capture of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. "We've closed an important chapter in this tragedy," he said. Hide Caption 24 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A SWAT team member is followed by reporters and a celebrating crowd on April 19 after the successful operation. Hide Caption 25 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A police officer adjusts his hat while various law enforcement agencies descend on the area around Franklin Street on April 19. Hide Caption 26 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Spectators celebrate as law enforcement officers leave the scene on April 19 near Franklin Street. Hide Caption 27 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – People gather at the scene near Franklin Street in Watertown on April 19. Hide Caption 28 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – A man claps next to a police vehicle in the Watertown neighborhood on April 19. Hide Caption 29 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Onlookers applaud first responders departing the scene at the end of the manhunt on April 19. Hide Caption 30 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Police officers and SWAT team members exult after the successful operation to capture suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev on April 19. Hide Caption 31 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Boston SWAT team members are surrounded by spectators and the media on April 19. Hide Caption 32 of 33 Photos: Photos: Boston celebrates Boston celebrates, seeks return to normal – Residents clap after the capture of the second of two suspects wanted in the Boston Marathon bombings on April 19. See all photography relating to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 33 of 33JUST WATCHED Witness: We heard explosions, gunshots Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Witness: We heard explosions, gunshots 01:28The standoff and subsequent arrest Friday night came just minutes after frustrated authorities indicated during a news conference that a manhunt for the suspect came up empty.HOW IT STARTEDPolice responded Thursday night to a call on the Massachusetts Institute of Technology campus, where university police officer Sean Collier, 26, was fatally shot. Police believe the Boston Marathon bombing suspects, Dzhokar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev, were responsible for the shooting.Soon after the alleged attack, the two suspects hijacked a car at gunpoint in Cambridge, taking the driver hostage. They later released the hostage at a gas station, and as a police chase ensued, the suspects hurled a grenade and pipe bombs at officers in hot pursuit.A NIGHT OF MAYHEMAuthorities used the tracking device in the carjacked Mercedes to track the brothers to Watertown.However, the suspects were determined not to go down without a fight. Explosives and gunfire rang into the night, sending residents scattering.Officers fired back, striking a man later identified as Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26.He was suspect No. 1 in the Boston Marathon bombings that killed three people and injured about 180 others.He was wearing explosives when his body was recovered, a source said.The younger brother -- suspect No. 2 -- fled into the night.Authorities asked Boston-area residents not to leave their homes Friday as they went door-to-door searching for the suspect. They shut down transportation services and asked residents to stay home as a massive manhunt ensued.About 6 p.m., a frustrated Gov. Deval Patrick lifted the lockdown and said mass transit service has resumed. He urged residents to be vigilant because the suspect was still on the run.SUSPECT CORNEREDNot too long after the lockdown was lifted, there was some good news.Massachusetts authorities arrested the teen after a resident found him in his boat in Watertown. The man saw blood on his boat in the backyard, and the suspect bleeding under a tarp.Police converged on the scene and asked the teen to surrender."Come out on your own terms. We know you're in there. Come out with your hands up," officers said.Police and the suspect exchanged gunfire.He was found in a boat in the yard of a home close to where he and his older brother engaged in a shootout with police nearly 24 hours earlier."We've closed an important chapter in this tragedy," President Barack Obama said after the arrest.2 BROTHERS, 2 ENDINGSThe brothers came from the Russian Caucasus region and moved to Kazakhstan at a young age before coming to the United States several years ago. The younger brother was 8 years old at the time, according to relatives. He came to the United States as a tourist with his family in the early 2000s and later asked for asylum. He became a naturalized U.S. citizen last year, according to a federal official.He attended the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth.The older brother was not a citizen, but was lawfully in the United States as a green-card holder. He studied engineering at Bunker Hill Community College just outside Boston, but had taken the year off to train as a boxer, sources told CNN.The family of Katherine Russell, his wife, issued a letter saying their "hearts are sickened by the knowledge of the horror he has inflicted."