Story highlights A large backhoe demolishes part of the house and scoops valuables to safetyCrews recover a Bible, military awards and an American flag from the wreckageWork to demolish a Florida home where a sinkhole opened up will continue Monday, authorities say"It's really not possible to recover the body" of Jeff Bush, a county official saysUnable to rescue a man devoured by a giant sinkhole, workers started demolishing his Florida home Sunday -- three days after the ground under his bedroom opened up and swallowed him.Crowds watched as a backhoe plunged its bucket into the home's blue walls, leaving the wreckage of wood beams and cinder blocks where rooms once stood.Some snapped photos with cell phone cameras, said John Gauntt, a reporter for CNN affiliate Bay News 9. Others turned toward the ground with tears in their eyes.Demolition of the house lasted for about three hours on Sunday and was expected to continue on Monday morning, Hillsborough County Administrator Mike Merrill told reporters.It was a delicate process, officials said, as a county employee skillfully maneuvered a massive piece of construction equipment to scoop up the family's valuables and carry them to safety.JUST WATCHED Sinkhole sounded like car hitting house Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sinkhole sounded like car hitting house 01:09JUST WATCHED Sinkhole victim's brother: I have nothing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sinkhole victim's brother: I have nothing 03:04JUST WATCHED Sinkhole search suspended Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sinkhole search suspended 01:28The items salvaged included a Bible, military awards and an American flag that hung near the house's front door.One woman wept as an official handed her a framed family portrait. The demolition crew worked for only a few hours on Sunday to give the family time to sift through their belongings, Merrill said.But authorities said they couldn't recover Jeff Bush's body from the massive hole that opened up under his bedroom. The sinkhole -- about 20 feet wide and 50 to 60 feet deep -- was still expanding, they said, and the suburban Tampa house could collapse at any time.Authorities made the heartbreaking decision to stop the search for Bush after the odds against his survival became abundantly clear.Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way This photo shows a giant sinkhole (C) in a five-lane urban boulevard, eroding soil and exposing underground steel columns supporting commercial buildings in Fukuoka, southwestern Japan, on November 8, 2016. No injuries were reported as the accident occurred in the early morning hours. / AFP / JIJI PRESS / STR / Japan OUT (Photo credit should read STR/AFP/Getty Images) Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – Eight Corvettes fell into a sinkhole that opened up beneath a section of the National Corvette Museum in Bowling Green, Kentucky, on February 12. The sinkhole was about 40 feet wide and 25-30 feet deep. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – An increasing number of sinkholes have appeared in and around the neighborhood where the Lotte World Tower is being built in Seoul, South Korea. The first one was discovered in June and several others have appeared since then, according to local media reports, causing the construction of what would be Seoul's tallest building to come under scrutiny. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – The rear portion of a residential home is consumed by a sinkhole November 14 in Dunedin, Florida. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A 60-foot-wide sinkhole formed underneath the Summer Bay Resort in Clermont, Florida, about 10 minutes from Walt Disney World, on August 11. One resort building collapsed, and another slowly sank. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A backhoe is swallowed by a sinkhole in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, on August 6. The driver of the backhoe was not injured. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A sinkhole killed a guard at a construction site in Shenzhen, China, on March 27. The sinkhole might have been caused by heavy rains and the collapsing of old water pipes running beneath the surface, the Shenzhen Special Zone Daily reported. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – Workers watch the demolition of the house where a sinkhole opened three days before in Seffner, Florida, on March 3. Sinkholes caused by acidic groundwater corroding the limestone or carbonate rock underground are common in Florida, according to the Florida Department of Environmental Protection. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – Buildings fell into a sinkhole near a subway construction site in Guangzhou, China, in January 2013. The hole measured about 1,000 square feet across and 30 feet deep and was without casualties, according to a state media report. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A basketball court in Ortley Beach, New Jersey, fell into a sinkhole caused by Superstorm Sandy in November 2012. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – In July 2011, a man inspects a 40-foot-deep sinkhole that a family found after they heard a booming noise in their kitchen in Guatemala City, Guatemala. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – Construction on a subway line caused a huge sinkhole to form in a road in Beijing in April 2011. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – An aerial photo shows sinkholes created by the drying of the Dead Sea near Israel in 2011. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A utility worker examines the area around a sinkhole caused by a broken water main in Chevy Chase, Maryland, in December 2010. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – Tropical Storm Agatha caused a sinkhole to open in Guatemala City in May 2010. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A fire truck protrudes from a sinkhole as Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa talks to reporters in September 2009. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A water main collapsed an entire block-long part of Ocean Park Boulevard in Santa Monica, California, in December 2002. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – In Orlando, a sinkhole 150 feet wide and 60 feet deep swallowed trees, pipelines and a section of sidewalk near an apartment building in June 2002. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A 30-foot-deep sinkhole appeared in a busy street in a suburb east of downtown Los Angeles. A motorist drove into the hole but was rescued before a concrete slab fell onto the car. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – "The Great Blue Hole" is the name of a massive underwater sinkhole off the coast of Belize. The deeper you go, the clearer the water becomes, revealing amazing stalactites and limestone. Hide Caption 20 of 20"We just have not been able to locate Mr. Bush, and so for that reason, the rescue effort is being discontinued," Merrill told reporters Saturday evening. "At this point, it's really not possible to recover the body."The Bush family's nightmare began Thursday night, just as everyone was about to go to sleep.A deafening noise shattered the peace in the blue, one-story home in the suburb of Seffner.Then, Jeremy Bush said he heard his brother, Jeff, scream."I ran toward my brother's bedroom," he told CNN's "AC360.""Everything was gone. My brother's bed, my brother's dresser, my brother's TV. My brother was gone."Jeremy Bush jumped in the hole and frantically shoveled away rubble. But as the house's floor collapsed, a sheriff's deputy pulled him to safety, while his brother remained trapped below."I couldn't get him out," Jeremy Bush said, weeping. "I tried so hard. I tried everything I could."Jeremy Bush and four others, including a 2-year-old child, were uninjured.After officials called off the search for his brother's body Saturday, Jeremy Bush told Bay News 9 the family was devastated."It's not just I lost my brother. There are so many memories in this house," he told the CNN affiliate. "My wife and her brother and the whole family. ... Every holiday, we gathered at this house. Her grandmother passed away. All the stuff to remember her by is in this house, and we're losing it all. You can't replace that. You can't replace a life being gone."As crews began demolishing the house Sunday, pieces of the family's lives were pushed into public view.Walls with picture frames on them came crashing down. Baby toys and clothes on hangers were raked across the ground.Knocking down the unsafe structure is necessary, officials said, to get a better look at the sinkhole and to figure out the best way to fill it."Once they can get a better view, then they can get a sense of what the next step is. ... This is one step at a time, because we really don't know what we're dealing with here," Merrill said Sunday morning.Sinkholes are common in the state, according to the Florida Department of Environmental Protection. Florida lies on bedrock made of limestone or other carbonate rock that can be eaten away by acidic groundwater, forming voids that collapse when the rock can no longer support the weight of what's above it.Hillsborough County, on Florida's west coast, is part of an area known as "sinkhole alley" that accounts for two thirds of the sinkhole-related insurance claims in the state, according to a Florida state Senate Insurance and Banking Committee report.With officials concerned that more ground near the house in Seffner could give way Sunday, the massive backhoe demolishing the house kept its distance, staying on the street.Nearby homes were evacuated Friday as a precaution.The family that lived next door was given about 30 minutes to grab belongings before abandoning the house, which was compromised by the sinkhole, fire department spokesman Ronnie Rivera said.Though the risky search for Jeff Bush has ended, the danger has not.Merrill said workers were dealing with a "very unusual sinkhole" -- deep, wide and extremely unstable."It's underground, it's unseen and we're uncertain as to what's under there," said John Lyons, the county's director of public works. "So we'll be very cautious going in."Contractors will finish demolition work on Monday, he said. "They'll pull out the rest of the structure, load it up and take it away."But authorities said Jeff Bush's body will remain in its final resting place, trapped underground where the house his family lived in for generations once stood.