(CNN) Have you seen "Incredibles 2" yet? It's shaping up to be a Disney classic -- and not just at the box office . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. ImmigrationThe fury over the Trump administration's policy that effectively separates families seeking refuge at the border continued yesterday, with all eyes on Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen. In a tumultuous White House press briefing , Nielsen defended the policy, saying she had not seen any of the many images circulating of distraught immigrant children and claiming such images only tell one narrative (the others, she said, are "narratives of crime, of the opioids, of the smugglers").Nielsen's handling of the immigration situation has prompted some Democratic senators to call for her resignation. Jeff Merkley accused her of telling "a lot of whoppers" during the briefing and s aid she needs to step down to make room for "someone with integrity." Kamala Harris also called for her to resign , saying Nielsen's tenure has lacked "transparency and accountability."Ordinary people around the country aren't ignoring this political maelstrom. At one point, about $4,000 per minute poured in to a Facebook fundraiser set up to help separated immigrant families.Ex-staffer at shelter on why he quit his jobEx-staffer at shelter on why he quit his job 01:39Ex-staffer at shelter on why he quit his job2. North KoreaKim Jong Un is on the move again. On the heels of his meeting with President Trump in Singapore, the North Korean leader is in China today and tomorrow, presumably to brief Chinese President Xi Jinping on his Trump summit . While the US-North Korean meeting was a first, Kim is a regular in China, and this will be his third trip there in three months. China is North Korea 's only real ally and supports its seemingly thawed diplomatic relations with the US.JUST WATCHED N. Korea defector recalls field trip to execution Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH N. Korea defector recalls field trip to execution 01:363. TradeJUST WATCHED China is killing my business. Now tariffs are too Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China is killing my business. Now tariffs are too 03:044. Opioid crisisJUST WATCHED Drug company knew early about opioid abuse, book claims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Drug company knew early about opioid abuse, book claims 09:015. GerrymanderingTwo major gerrymandering cases have been rejected by the Supreme Court , leaving the door open for all kinds of questions. Gerrymandering is a practice in which politicians draw oddly-shaped district lines to finagle voting bases and stay in power. These two cases featured accusations of Republican gerrymandering in Wisconsin and Democratic gerrymandering in Maryland. By refusing to consider them, the Supreme Court has effectively punted on a critical legal decision that would provide guidance on how to deal with similar alleged legislative overreaches.JUST WATCHED How gerrymandering got its name Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How gerrymandering got its name 01:57BREAKFAST BROWSEMillennials will be less happy, healthy in middle age than their parentsJUST WATCHED This is your brain on pain Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This is your brain on pain 01:39After being shut out for years, IKEA is finally headed to IndiaJUST WATCHED Watch this robot build an IKEA chair in minutes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch this robot build an IKEA chair in minutes 00:57Going on a cruise for the first time this summer? Here's what to knowJUST WATCHED The Business of Making Fun Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The Business of Making Fun 02:46Does marijuana increase sexual desire?If by sex you mean "a whole can of Pringles and a nap," then yesJUST WATCHED Why weed is stuck in a legal limbo Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why weed is stuck in a legal limbo 02:28Chadwick Boseman gave his MTV Award to the Waffle House heroHe was accepting an award last night for best hero in a movie but decided to give it to a real one insteadJUST WATCHED Waffle House hero: We were tussling for gun Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Waffle House hero: We were tussling for gun 02:32TODAY'S QUOTE"We are going to have the Air Force, and we are going to have the Space Force: separate but equal. It is going to be something so important."President Trump, using a term from US segregationist history to describe his plans for a new military branch in space.JUST WATCHED Trump directs creation of 'Space Force' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump directs creation of 'Space Force' 00:50AND FINALLYJust a relaxing little bath