(CNN) -- Super Bowl? More like Super Bust!The team that set a record for most points in the NFL this season almost set another Sunday night: team to score zero points in a Super Bowl. Fortunately, the Denver Broncos managed eight measly points late in the game to avoid that ignominy.Still, the Seattle Seahawks delivered a brutal crushing. A 43-8 crushing.But the Super Bowl stopped being about just the game a long time ago. It's about the ads, the halftime show, the social media reaction.More than 24.9 million tweets were sent about the game and halftime show, Twitter reported; 24.1 million were sent in 2013.The top three moments were all sports-related, including the Percy Harvin 87-yard kickoff return for a touchdown at the opening of the third quarter, a touchdown pass to Jermaine Kearse and the 69-yard interception return by Malcolm Smith.Here are our 10 favorite social media moments from Sunday night.1. The heartbreakNo matter how much joy you took in the Seahawks' carnage, this photo of a young Broncos fan crying at his team's loss is pretty gloat-sapping.2. The fur coat"Broadway Joe" stepped onto the midfield for a coin toss (that he botched), and he sent Twitter into a tizzy with his mammoth fur coat.3. The big winnerThe ads were great. We especially liked the Clydesdale horse and the shelter puppy. But Radio Shack's back-to-the-'80s spot was a big winner with viewers.4. The charmerBruno Mars charmed just about everyone. The Red Hot Chili Peppers? Not so much.5. The apologyYikes. Several of JC Penney's tweets during the game had people scratching their heads. The company later posted an apology for the misspellings, saying it was "tweeting with mittens."6. The tweetPeople pay attention to Hillary. A tweet from the former secretary of state and former first lady -- a sly dig at Fox -- has been retweeted more than 50,000 times.7. The cellphonesYou pay thousands of dollars for prime seats to the game. Then you spend the entire time staring at it through your smartphone screen. Sigh.8. The oops!CBS accidentally aired its Wi-Fi access password. Props for using both numbers and uppercase letters.9. The channel changersThe one-sided game was so one-sided that even guys were like, "I'd rather watch 'Downton Abbey.' "