Story highlights His agent says Sam's revelation will not hurt his draft prospectsMichael Sam was an All-American lineman at the University of MissouriWith his skills, he could be drafted by the NFL in MayHe'd be the first openly gay draftee in pro footballMichael Sam , an All-American defensive lineman from the University of Missouri, publicly revealed that he's gay Sunday, creating the possibility he'll be the first openly gay player drafted by the National Football League."I came to tell the world I'm an openly proud gay man," he said in an interview with ESPNHe said he told his Missouri teammates in August and suffered no repercussions. He said he was surprised to discover many people in the media already knew he was gay."I understand how big this is," Sam said in the ESPN interview. "It's a big deal. No one has done this before. And it's kind of a nervous process, but I know what I want to be ... I want to be a football player in the NFL."Sam also spoke about his sexual orientation Sunday to The New York Times , saying: "I just want to make sure I could tell my story the way I want to tell it. I just want to own my truth."JUST WATCHED Watch NFL prospect reveal he's gay Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch NFL prospect reveal he's gay 01:38Photos: Openly gay athletes Photos: Openly gay athletes David Denson, a first baseman for the Milwaukee Brewers' rookie affiliate in Helena, Montana, told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel in August 2015 that he is gay. The news makes him the first active player affiliated with a Major League organization to come out publicly. Click through to see other openly gay athletes. Hide Caption 1 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes American soccer legend Abby Wambach's sexuality was an open secret for years before she married fellow soccer player Sarah Huffman in 2013. Hide Caption 2 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Swimmer Ian Thorpe, seen here in 2004 with one of his five Olympic gold medals, told an Australian news outlet that he is gay in an interview that aired on Sunday, July 13. Hide Caption 3 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Former Missouri defensive end Michael Sam told ESPN and The New York Times that he is gay on February 9. Sam later became the first openly gay player to be drafted by a NFL team when he was taken by the St. Louis Rams in the seventh round. Hide Caption 4 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Robbie Rogers became the first openly gay male athlete to play in a professional American sporting match when he took the field for Major League Soccer's Los Angeles Galaxy during a match against the Seattle Sounders on May 26. Hide Caption 5 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes "I didn't set out to be the first openly gay athlete playing in a major American team sport. But since I am, I'm happy to start the conversation," NBA player Jason Collins said in a Sports Illustrated article Hide Caption 6 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Sheryl Swoopes, a retired WNBA star and coach of the Loyola University Chicago's women's basketball team, came out in 2005. Hide Caption 7 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Brittney Griner , selected No. 1 in the 2013 WNBA draft by the Phoenix Mercury, is openly gay. Hide Caption 8 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes In an exclusive interview with CNN, former San Francisco 49ers player Kwame Harris came out as gay after rumors circulated in the media. Hide Caption 9 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Rugby player Gareth Thomas of Wales spoke about being gay to a British news channel in 2009. Hide Caption 10 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Justin Fashanu became the first openly gay soccer player in Europe when he came out in 1990. Eight years later, he took his own life. Hide Caption 11 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Tennis great Martina Navratilova came out in 1981. Hide Caption 12 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes After his retirement in 2007, basketball player John Amaechi announced he was gay. Hide Caption 13 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes After retiring from professional football in 1972, David Kopay acknowledged to the Washington Star that he was gay. Hide Caption 14 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Villanova University's Will Sheridan came out to his teammates in 2003. Hide Caption 15 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes In 2012, U.S. women's soccer player Megan Rapinoe confirmed in Out magazine that she was a lesbian. Hide Caption 16 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Champion figure skater Johnny Weir confirmed in his 2011 memoir, "Welcome to My World," that he was gay. Hide Caption 17 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Australia's Matthew Mitcham came out in an interview with the Sydney Morning Herald in 2008. Hide Caption 18 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes In 2012, Orlando Cruz became the first active professional fighter to publicly announce that he was gay. Hide Caption 19 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Openly gay British dressage rider Carl Hester helped his team win gold at the 2012 Olympics. Hide Caption 20 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes English cricketer Steven Davies announced he was gay in 2011. Hide Caption 21 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Germany's Judith Arndt won the silver medal in cycling at the 2012 Olympics. Hide Caption 22 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Billy Bean, a former Major League Baseball player, discussed being gay in a 1999 New York Times article. Hide Caption 23 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Tennis legend Billie Jean King was outed by a former female partner in 1981. Hide Caption 24 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes In 2002, professional football player Esera Tuaolo came out on HBO's "Real Sports." Hide Caption 25 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes French tennis player Amelie Mauresmo came out in 1999. Hide Caption 26 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Greg Louganis, who won four Olympic golds for the United States during his diving career, has been openly gay since 1995. Hide Caption 27 of 27JUST WATCHED Will coming out hurt Sam's NFL chances? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Will coming out hurt Sam's NFL chances? 02:09Sam, at 6-foot-2 and 260 pounds, starred in college football last season. Besides being first team All-American, he was named the top defensive player in the Southeastern Conference, considered the nation's best league. Teammates named him the team's most valuable player.With those credentials, he's expected to be picked in the NFL draft in May. The Bleacher Report mock draft projected him to go in the late rounds because "athletic limitations including a lack of flexibility and a lack of optimal size are concerning."His agent said Monday that he does not think Sam's decision to acknowledge his sexual orientation will hurt his draft prospects."I think, if anything, teams will look at it and see a guy who was honest and upfront instead of waiting until after the draft to potentially make his announcement," Joe Barkett told CNN. "Mike was forward, and he wants the team who drafts him to accept him for who he is."The NFL issued a statement on Twitter on Sunday : "We admire Michael Sam's honesty and courage. Michael is a football player. Any player with ability and determination can succeed in the NFL. We look forward to welcoming and supporting Michael Sam in 2014."However, the NFL has made headlines on the issue of sexual orientation in the past. Last year, a University of Colorado player said an NFL team asked him if he liked girls and had a girlfriend.The NFL quickly said, "Any team or employee that inquires about impermissible subjects or makes an employment decision based on such factors is subject to league discipline."Sam issued his own Tweet : "I want to thank everybody for their support and encouragement, especially @espn, @nytimes and @nfl. I am proud to tell my story to the world!"Sam's announcement comes as the federal government expands its recognition of same-sex marriages. Attorney General Eric Holder said the Justice Department will issue a memo Monday that extends the federal government's recognition of same-sex marriages, even in the 34 states that don't consider it legal.Other athletes have come out as gay, but they didn't have Sam's profile.GLAAD, a lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender media advocacy group, said Sam is "the latest high-profile athlete to come out as LGBT. Others include the NBA's Jason Collins, the WNBA's Brittney Griner, WWE's Darren Young, UFC's Liz Carmouche, MMA's Fallon Fox and Major League Soccer's Robbie Rogers."Of those athletes, Collins made the biggest media splash . He's not playing in the NBA this season.Praise poured in for Sam, who overcame a rough childhood in which one of his brothers was killed and others ended up in prison.Sam's head football coach at Missouri, Gary Pinkel, said: "We're really happy for Michael that he's made the decision to announce this, and we're proud of him and how he represents Mizzou. Michael is a great example of just how important it is to be respectful of others, he's taught a lot of people here first-hand that it doesn't matter what your background is, or your personal orientation, we're all on the same team and we all support each other."GLAAD President Sarah Kate Ellis said in a prepared statement: "By rewriting the script for countless young athletes, Michael has demonstrated the leadership that, along with his impressive skills on the field, makes him a natural fit for the NFL. With acceptance of LGBT people rising across our coasts -- in our schools, churches, and workplaces -- it's clear that America is ready for an openly gay football star."