Story highlights OSHA referred case after allegations first surfacedLara Padgett investigated SeaWorld after an orca killed a trainer in 2010SeaWorld files complaint, saying that Padgett divulged its trade secretsIt says Padgett attended "Blackfish" premiere, accepted free lodgingSeaWorld Parks & Entertainment is requesting the U.S. Department of Labor investigate the conduct of employee Lara Padgett, alleging she violated the ethics code for government employees.Padgett is an Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) agent who investigated SeaWorld for safety violations after the death of Dawn Brancheau, a veteran trainer killed by a 12,000-pound orca named Tilikum in 2010.As a result of some of Padgett's findings, OSHA determined SeaWorld violated the Occupational Safety and Health Act, saying it exposed its workers to a "known hazard" in the workplace.OSHA fined SeaWorld and restricted the interaction between trainers in the water with the killer whales, a decision that SeaWorld has appealed.In a 228-page complaint filed Thursday, SeaWorld said it has obtained information showing Padgett is biased against the aquatic park and accused her of engaging in cronyism with the producers of the documentary, "Blackfish," produced by Magnolia Pictures and acquired by CNN Films last year.Photos: Killer whales in captivity Photos: Killer whales in captivity Lolita, a captive killer whale at the Miami Seaquarium, was added to the endangered species listing for Southern Resident Killer Whales by NOAA Fisheries in February. Although her species was already listed as endangered, Lolita was not previously included because there was an exemption for captive members of the population. Lolita has been at the Miami Seaquarium since 1970. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Killer whales in captivity Killer whales, or orcas, were first put on public display in the 1960s. The best known killer whale shows in the United States are at SeaWorld Parks, which are synonymous with their "Shamu" killer whale shows, seen here. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Killer whales in captivity SeaWorld's first park opened in San Diego, California, in March 1964 with only a handful of employees, a few dolphins, sea lions, and two aquariums. The park introduced orcas the next year, and they quickly became the stars of the park's shows. A steady stream of celebrities have posed with SeaWorld's killer whales, including actress Halle Berry, seen here in 2009. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Killer whales in captivity SeaWorld opened its Orlando park in 1973, where the first killer whale was born in captivity in 1985. SeaWorld emphasizes that it is "dedicated to education, entertainment, research and conservation" of all its marine animals. Here, two orcas at SeaWorld Orlando perform in 2000. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Killer whales in captivity The 1993 hit movie "Free Willy" captured hearts and sparked a massive campaign to free Keiko, the orca that played "Willy" in the movie, from the Mexican amusement park where he performed. Here, Keiko is being prepared to be released into the wild in 1998. In 2002, Keiko spent five weeks journeying across the Atlantic to Norway. He wasn't quite ready to be independent, finding companionship among the Norwegian fishermen and children. He died in December 2003, most likely from pneumonia. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Killer whales in captivity A male killer whale, Bingo, is transported to the Nagoya Port Aquarium in Japan in December 2011, after the death of the aquarium's only other orca. Marine animal activists say the transfers of orcas between marine parks are unhealthy for these mammals because of the stress and trauma. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Killer whales in captivity This female killer whale, Morgan, was taken in by a Dutch dolphinarium after being found starving in the shallow waters of the North Sea off the Netherlands coast. She is now performing at Loro Parque in Spain's Canary Islands -- despite an agreement that she would be released into the wild after her rehabilitation. Animal rights activists have mounted a legal challenge for her release. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Killer whales in captivity Today, there are 45 captive orcas performing at about 10 parks across the world, most of them born in captivity. Here, orcas perform at the Marineland aquatic park in Antibes, in southeastern France. Hide Caption 8 of 8JUST WATCHED Did SeaWorld rig 'Blackfish' poll? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Did SeaWorld rig 'Blackfish' poll? 02:18JUST WATCHED SeaWorld fights back on 'Blackfish' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH SeaWorld fights back on 'Blackfish' 01:42JUST WATCHED SeaWorld defends record in open letter Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH SeaWorld defends record in open letter 04:29The film explores the concept of keeping killer whales in captivity for entertainment. It set off a national debate resulting in significant backlash for SeaWorld.SeaWorld has long called "Blackfish" one-sided and claimed it is the product of animal activists.A spokesman for the Department of Labor's inspector general said the office had received the complaint but could issue no further comment. Attempts to reach Padgett were not immediately successful Friday.Department of Labor spokesman Jesse Lawder said OSHA referred the matter to the inspector general in January, immediately after allegations first surfaced, and that the agency is awaiting the results of that investigation.In the complaint, SeaWorld alleges Padgett attended the 2013 Sundance Film Festival with "Blackfish" producers and accepted lodging free of charge.SeaWorld provided CNN with several purported photos of Padgett, lifted from what appear to be her personal social media accounts, showing the federal employee in various photos with the film's cast and crew -- including a picture of the group in a "Charlie's Angels" pose, complete with air guns, at the film's premiere in New York.The company also accused Padgett of disclosing confidential information."Blackfish" associate producer Tim Zimmermann asked to borrow a witness' thumb drive and was subsequently seen working with Padgett on a laptop computer, the complaint says.The witness then found new documents related to OSHA's investigation on the drive after it was returned -- documents, the complaint states were clearly labeled as SeaWorld trade secrets. The complaint does not identify the witness.Zimmermann told CNN no confidential documents were shared with him."I have no idea what to make of these accusations," he said. "Lara Padgett never shared documents with 'Blackfish.' There are no documents in the film."What's more, Padgett was not invited to Sundance by the "Blackfish" crew, Zimmermann said. She stayed in the house where the crew stayed for a few nights due to a lodging shortage in the area, but she "came on her own dime," he said." 'Blackfish' does not have any, did not use any confidential documents," Zimmermann said. "We obviously knew who she was. We tried to interview her, but ... all of OSHA declined to participate."He added, "Any feelings she had on SeaWorld, it was on her own."Government employees are prohibited from divulging trade secrets. They face imprisonment, fines or termination if found in violation."We believe that this conduct demonstrates that she was influenced by improper considerations, and failed to bring the appropriate objectivity, in the investigation of the death of whale trainer Dawn Brancheau," the complaint states."SeaWorld further believes that Ms. Padgett's disclosure of confidential information and other conduct reflect an intense bias and a desire to assist those in the animal rights community who have publicly, and for many years, demonstrated a desire to damage SeaWorld as a viable business."