Other states are considering the kinds of right-to-deny-service bills that Arizona's governor quashed. Calorie counting might get simpler if the FDA has its way. And our galactic maps just got a little more accurate.Welcome to the Thursday edition of "5 Things to Know for Your New Day."1. RELIGIOUS LIBERTY MOVEMENTNot just Arizona:A bill that would have allowed Arizona businesses to deny service to gays and lesbians out of religious conviction has died on the governor's desk. Other states, though -- including Georgia, Idaho, Mississippi and Missouri -- are considering similar bills. Proponents say the measures would protect people from being compelled to take actions against their religion, while critics say they're a way to discriminate against gays.The Arizona development came on a day that a federal judge issued a ruling that, if it survives appeals, would strike down Texas' same-sex marriage ban.2. NUTRITION LABEL MAKEOVERThe whole enchilada. Or soda bottle:You soon might have a harder time mistaking the number of calories you're getting from that soda. The Food and Drug Administration today is proposing changes to nutrition labels, and if they happen, your 20-ounce soda bottle would reflect calories and other data for the whole bottle, not just a theoretical 8-ounce serving. Other serving-size rules would similarly try to more accurately reflect what people usually eat or drink. Other proposed changes: A bigger emphasis on added sugars and certain nutrients, such as Vitamin D and potassium.3. UKRAINE UNRESTConflict of interests:Although a West-leaning government took over in Ukraine's capital after months of protests, not all of the country is ready to stray from neighboring Russia. Today, armed men seized government buildings -- and raised a Russian flag over one of them -- in Ukraine's southern Crimea region, according to an official there. Earlier, pro-Russian demonstrators faced off against rival protesters in the Crimean city of Simferopol. Meanwhile, Russia is conducting surprise military exercises near Ukraine. Crimea has tight ties with Russia, and one if its cities, Sevastapol, has a 60% Russian population and is home to Russia's Black Sea fleet.4. CORY REMSBURGHis inspiring battle:Remember the war veteran who got a roughly two-minute standing ovation at President Obama's State of the Union address last month? Army Sgt. 1st Class Cory Remsburg, who was partially paralyzed by a roadside bomb in Afghanistan in 2009, has become one of the public faces of Americans returning from war with traumatic brain injuries. He celebrated his 31st birthday this week in a way that will likely surprise you. In a New Day interview airing today, see how he's getting through what he says is the most challenging battle he's ever faced.5. PLANETS DISCOVEREDMore rocks in the 'hood:You knew of only 1,000 planets in our galaxy? Silly Earthling. The list nearly doubled yesterday when NASA announced that it had discovered 715 more in the Milky Way, courtesy of the Kepler space observatory. Of those, four potentially could support life. Maybe they'll delay any planet-hopping, resource-plundering aliens for a bit. Anyway, expect Kepler to find even more planets.