Story highlights The NFL invited Isaac Lufkin and his mom to be its guests at the Super BowlLufkin was born without arms and is a kicker on his high school's freshman teamHe says he wants to play in the Super Bowl one day for the Baltimore RavensOffers poured in from TV producers, kicking coaches after CNN aired his storyHis pick to win the big game may have lost Sunday, but 14-year-old Isaac Lufkin is still smiling after a once-in-a-lifetime trip to the Super Bowl.Isaac and his mom Lori were guests of the National Football League and got to experience America's premier sporting event behind the scenes as a VIP.We first told you about Isaac last week. He was born without arms, but that hasn't stopped him from being place kicker for his Classical High School freshman football team in Providence, Rhode Island. In fact, he helped lead his team to an undefeated 2013 season and the freshman football state title.Isaac's passion for football is clear, but when you watch him kick it's more than passion. It's proof that almost anything is possible."I wanna play in the NFL. The (Baltimore) Ravens," Isaac told CNN as he practiced his kicking on the Classical High School football field.JUST WATCHED NFL flies armless kicker to Super Bowl Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NFL flies armless kicker to Super Bowl 03:16JUST WATCHED Armless teen aims for NFL Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Armless teen aims for NFL 05:05Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Seattle Seahawks head coach Pete Carroll celebrates his team's remarkable 43-8 win over the Denver Broncos in Super Bowl XLVIII. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – The helmets of the competing Super Bowl teams Seattle and Denver flank the iconic Vince Lombardi trophy. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Denver makes a disastrous start as the ball sails over Peyton Manning from a snap which leads to a safety and points on the board for Seattle. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Manning (18) cuts a dejected figure after he walks off the field after being intercepted. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – The Seahawks cheerleading squad had more to celebrate as its team took a stranglehold on the Super Bowl from the start. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Marshawn Lynch (no 24) forces his way through a pack of players to score the opening touchdown of the game for the Seahawks. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Manning is about to be intercepted in the second quarter with MVP Malcolm Smith returning for 69 yards to score the second touchdown for Seattle. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Smith has intercepted Manning's misplaced pass and is charging towards the end zone to score a touchdown. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – A young Seahawks fan is dressed for the occasion as he supports his team at Super Bowl XLVII. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – New Jersey Governor Chris Christie takes a welcome break from recent political controversies to share a moment with NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell in the build up to Super Bowl XLVII. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Seattle's controversial cornerback Richard Sherman was well protected against the New Jersey elements prior to the showdown. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Star quality. Actor Kevin Costner and his wife Christine Baumgartner turn up to watch the proceedings at the Metlife Stadium. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Opera singer Renee Fleming enchanted the crowd with her rendition of the American national anthem before the kickoff. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Denver Broncos fans were dressed for the chilly weather in New Jersey for Super Bowl XLVIII against Seattle Seahawks. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Bruno Mars and Anthony Kiedis of the Red Hot Chili Peppers join forces during the Super Bowl XLVIII halftime show in New Jersey. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Wide receiver Percy Harvin is on his way to completing an 87-yard return from the kick off at the start of the second half to put Seattle out of sight in Super Bowl XLVIII Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Demaryuis Thomas scored a deserved touchdown in the third quarter to provide a rare moment of success for Denver. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII Seattle wins Super Bowl XLVIII – Seahawks coach Carroll gets the traditional treatment as the clock counts down at the Metlife Stadium. Hide Caption 18 of 18His determination and fiercely independent spirit caught the attention of many people -- including the NFL -- after CNN's "The Situation Room" aired his story last week. At MetLife Stadium he got to go on the field before the game to watch the players warm up, he shook hands with superstar actors and was feted in a luxury box.And then President Bill Clinton stopped by to say hello."It was the best honor that has ever been bestowed on me," Isaac said.What did the 42nd president say?"He told me I should keep on kicking." Sounds like good advice.'Pity just makes me weaker'Several doors have opened for the ninth grader. There have been invitations to be on reality shows and kicking camps and football coaches have reached out.And of course, Facebook friend requests that have been so numerous, Isaac says he's had to set up a second Facebook page.His mother, Lori, told CNN the attention has been "overwhelming, but in a positive way ... I went from mom who wants everybody to see my son the way I do to OK, mom is super secretary."Despite all the attention Isaac has gotten, she said, "He needs to prove to me academically that he can finish high school with a great GPA. Because the only way he is going to play for the NFL is if he does have one, so education is No. 1 right now."You may wonder why Isaac doesn't have prosthetic arms. Dr. Michael Nunnery, who has been Isaac's prosthetist since he was a toddler, said artificial limbs wouldn't necessarily improve Isaac's quality of life right now. Isaac has become so capable and flexible on his own -- able to type, play video games, eat and dress himself with his feet -- prosthetic arms may hinder that. Nunnery says having prosthetic arms would certainly make kicking harder for Isaac by throwing off his balance.As for Isaac, he is adamant he wants to do everything on his own."I don't like pity. Pity just makes me weaker," he said.He added that he understands if someone wants to pick up his backpack if he drops it, but he's just going to put it back on the floor and pick it up himself to prove his independence."I look forward 20 years and I'm on my own, and I have my own house," he envisioned. "Who's going to help me? My mom's gone. Who's going to help me? I'll just be sitting on my bed in the same clothes. Never being able to brush my teeth or my hair or washing it. No, that's not a life for me."Not a soccer fanFor now, Isaac's dreaming of finishing his high school football career undefeated for the next three years, then making his way to the NFL. He wants to keep wearing purple, but one day as a player for the Ravens.Isaac lead his division in onside kicks that were recovered this season and he didn't back off on his other kickoffs. Watch game tape and you'll see him plowing into the scrums to assist on a tackle. He told the Providence Journal, who first reported this story, that he tried soccer and it wasn't for him."I played a lot of soccer, but I'm not a good soccer player," he told the newspaper. "I'm too aggressive. I like contact."He hopes his Classical teammates, and others, will be inspired when they see him out on the field. There are no excuses, he said, no way they can be lazy."If I can kick a ball and set it up and do my own thing, then they can do their own thing," he told CNN.On Sunday, you could see that Isaac wanted to go on the field at MetLife Stadium and have a kick. "I couldn't stop smiling and I still can't stop smiling. It's exciting. Very exciting," he said. That smiled remained even as he watched the Broncos and Peyton Manning come up short against the Seattle Seahawks.He made a prediction. He would be back at the Super Bowl one day. It might be a good distance down the road, but he was positive he would get there."No doubt," he said.