(CNN) Any traveler who returns with mementos from their adventures might struggle deciding what exactly to do with them.Perhaps that's why astronaut Neil Armstrong, the first man to step foot on the moon, left some of his personal artifacts from his journey to the moon in a closet.Armstrong's widow, Carol, found the items, and she snapped a picture of them that she shared with curators at the Smithsonian's National Air and Space Museum, a release from the museum said.Armstrong, who uttered those now famous words, "One small step for man, one giant leap for mankind," died in 2012 after complications associated with heart surgery.In the wake of his death, Carol Armstrong donated many of the Apollo 11 artifacts to the museum's National Collection. She also shared some of her husband's correspondence and paper files to his alma mater, Purdue University in Indiana.Not until recently did Carol Armstrong email the museum with the news she'd found, "a white cloth bag filled with assorted small items that looked like they may have come from a spacecraft."With the email, she included a picture of the items, spread out on her carpet.Photos: Famous firsts in space Photos: Famous firsts in space On July 20, 1969, the Apollo 11 mission put the first humans on the moon. Neil Armstrong famously commemorated his first steps on the moon by saying, "That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind." Hide Caption 1 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin, Armstrong's fellow astronaut on Apollo 11, salutes the U.S. flag on the lunar surface. Aldrin followed Armstrong and became the second man to walk on the moon on July 21, 1969. Hide Caption 2 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space This is the first photograph of Earth's south polar ice cap. It was taken by the crew of Apollo 17 as the astronauts traveled to the moon in December 1972. Hide Caption 3 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space The Soviet Union launched the Space Age and the space race with the successful launch of Sputnik I, the world's first satellite, on October 4, 1957. It orbited the Earth every 98 minutes. Hide Caption 4 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space Laika the dog is pictured aboard Sputnik II on November 13, 1957. She was the first animal to orbit the Earth. She did not survive her trip, but the mission provided valuable data that paved the way for the first human in space. Hide Caption 5 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space Soviet pilot and cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin made history as the first human to fly into space. On April 12, 1961, Gagarin took off in the Vostok 1, orbited the Earth and parachuted back to firm ground. Hide Caption 6 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space Less than a month after Gagarin's trip, astronaut Alan Shepard became the first American to travel into space. On May 5, 1961, Shepard piloted Freedom 7, the first manned Mercury program mission, in a suborbital flight that lasted a little more than 15 minutes. Hide Caption 7 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space John Glenn, aboard the Friendship 7, became the first American to orbit the planet on February 20, 1962. He also set a record as the oldest astronaut in space when, at the age of 77, he went on a mission aboard the Space Shuttle Discovery in November 1996. Hide Caption 8 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space Valentina Tereshkova, seen here with Gagarin, piloted the Vostok 6 on June 16, 1963, becoming the first woman to fly into space. Hide Caption 9 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space Soviet cosmonaut Vladimir Komarov died during his second flight when the Soyuz 1 spacecraft crashed during its return to Earth on April 23, 1967. He was the first human to die during a space mission. Hide Caption 10 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space Skylab, the United States' first space station, orbited Earth from 1973 to 1979. The Soviet program had launched their first space station, Salyut, in 1971, and it stayed in space for 15 years. Hide Caption 11 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space On July 15, 1975, Cold War adversaries temporarily broke the thaw when the United States and the Soviet Union embarked on their first joint space mission. Russia's Soyuz craft launched seven hours before the U.S. Apollo craft, and the two vehicles linked up 52 hours after Soyuz lifted off. Here, the two crews pose for a portrait. Hide Caption 12 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space At left is Alexei Leonov, commander of the Soviet crew of Soyuz 19, shaking hands with Thomas Stafford, commander of the American crew of Apollo 18, on July 17, 1975. This would be the last Apollo mission conducted by NASA. Hide Caption 13 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space Gen. Arnaldo Tamayo Mendez, center, looks at a homemade rocket in Havana, Cuba, in 2009. Mendez became the first Latin American, the first person of African descent and the first Cuban to fly in space when he flew aboard the Soviet Soyuz 38 on September 18, 1980. Hide Caption 14 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space Taking off on April 12, 1981, Columbia made the first orbital flight of NASA's space shuttle program. Here, crew members John Watts Young, left, and Robert Laurel Crippen hold a model of the orbiter in 1979. Hide Caption 15 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space Sally Ride became the first American woman to go into space when she was part of a crew aboard the space shuttle Challenger in June 1983. Hide Caption 16 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space Guion "Guy" Bluford was the first African-American to go into space. He was a mission specialist on the space shuttle challenger in 1983. Hide Caption 17 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space In February 1984, astronaut Bruce McCandless became the first astronaut to float in space untethered, thanks to a jetpack-like device called the Manned Maneuvering Unit. The units are no longer used, but astronauts now wear a similar backpack device in case of emergency. Hide Caption 18 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space Jan Davis and Mark Lee were the first couple to go into space together when the husband and wife were astronauts on the space shuttle Endeavour in 1992. Hide Caption 19 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space The private company SpaceX sent an unmanned capsule with supplies to the International Space Station on October 7, 2012. It was the first commercial space mission and the first of a dozen commercial cargo flights under a contract with NASA. Hide Caption 20 of 21 Photos: Famous firsts in space New close-up images of a region near Pluto's equator were released by NASA on Wednesday, July 15. Its New Horizons spacecraft was launched in 2006 and traveled 3 billion miles to the dwarf planet. It's the first spacecraft to explore Pluto and its moons. The mission completes the reconnaissance of the classical solar system, and it makes the United States the first nation to send a space probe to every planet from Mercury to Pluto. Hide Caption 21 of 21Most of the artifacts Carol Armstrong had made available to the museum prior to her closet find, weren't any actual flown artifacts, but were still exciting, Allan Needell the Apollo curator at the National Air and Space Museum told CNN.Carol Armstrong's locating the bag and turning to the museum "to help determine the significance of the items it was an immense honor and challenge," Needell said.The physical challenge of conserving and protecting the items, which Carol Armstrong shipped to the National Air and Space Museum, along with the intellectual challenge of determining what they were led Needell to enlist a team of experts from the Apollo Lunar Surface Journal (ALSJ)For a year, the team worked to document and understand the "function and significance of each of the items in the bag," confirming recently that a few definitely came from Neil Armstrong's Apollo 11 mission.JUST WATCHED Moon landing; Rare footage, fresh story Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Moon landing; Rare footage, fresh story 02:15The first they were able to verify was the white cloth bag in which the items were found.The temporary stowage bag was often called the "McDivitt purse," named after Apollo 9 Commander James McDivitt, who suggested astronauts might need a place to temporarily stow items.Evidence that the bag and its contents were a part of the moonwalk mission were confirmed through Armstrong's own words.He's recorded as having said, "You know that that one's just a bunch of trash that we want to take back -- LM parts, odds and ends, and it won't stay closed by itself. We'll have to figure something out for it."But transcripts from the ALSJ provide evidence Armstrong alerted mission control to the bag of "odds and ends" on board before their return. This was imperative as the return trajectory calculations would have needed to accommodate the additional weight (about 10lbs) in order to allow the team's safe re-entry to Earth, explained the curator in a blog post on the museum's website.Inside the bag was the camera that recorded Armstrong's landing on the moon, as well as his famous remarks upon his landing. The 16mm data acquisition camera was mounted in the window of the lunar module Eagle and recorded historic images: Armstrong just before he stepped onto the moon. Armstrong planting the American flag with Buzz Aldrin.JUST WATCHED What is NASA's next giant leap? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is NASA's next giant leap? 02:57Also a part of the haul was a waist tether used by Armstrong to help support his feet during a rest period on the moon. Astronauts used these tethers as security in case they were forced to do a spacewalk during orbit, the museum release said.Needell said the Armstrong artifacts "tell a number of stories" - the technical story that has been so carefully documented and the human story of those who were involved."It was a most satisfying discovery process," he said.A team of experts is still cataloging some of the items found inside to determine whether any others were a part of the Apollo 11 mission.