(CNN) Hollywood has its swankiest night of the year, a president escapes imprisonment and a terror group says it wants to attack U.S. malls.It's Monday, and here are the Five Things to Know for Your New Day.AL-SHABAABRemember the horrific 2013 attack at an upscale Kenyan mall that left more than 60 people dead? Well the Somali-based terror group Al-Shabaab says it wants an encore -- at American, Canadian and British malls . As one might guess, the patriotic sounding Mall of America is on the list. But so far there's been "no credible or specific evidence" that an attack is in the works, Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said.OSCARSGlitz, glam and dishwashing gloves: From Eddie Redmayne's uber-giddy acceptance speech to Lady Gaga performing "The Sound of Music" to Patricia Arquette's rallying cry for women's equality, this year's Academy Awards was full of memorable moments. And for those who mainly care about what everyone wore, here you go: From Eddie Redmayne's uber-giddy acceptance speech to Lady Gaga performing "The Sound of Music" to Patricia Arquette's rallying cry for women's equality, this year's Academy Awards was full of memorable moments. And for those who mainly care about what everyone wore, here you go:YEMENTake that, rebels: It's not often that a country's president goes into house arrest -- and then escapes. Yemeni President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi was forced to house arrest a month ago by Houthi militant rebels. But he escaped and released a statement saying he is still president, calling all political decisions made since September illegal and invalid. But one day after his act of defiance, It's not often that a country's president goes into house arrest -- and then escapes. Yemeni President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi was forced to house arrest a month ago by Houthi militant rebels. But he escaped and released a statement saying he is still president, calling all political decisions made since September illegal and invalid. But one day after his act of defiance, Hadi's nephew was kidnapped by the rebelsJUST WATCHED President escapes house arrest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH President escapes house arrest 01:01UKRAINEJUST WATCHED Bomb explodes during pro-Ukrainian rally Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bomb explodes during pro-Ukrainian rally 01:02ISIS