(CNN) "60 Minutes" correspondent Bob Simon, who covered both the Vietnam and Gulf Wars, died Wednesday in a car accident in New York, CBS News reported. He was 73."It's a terrible loss for all of us at CBS News," said Jeff Fager, the executive producer of "60 Minutes.""It's such a tragedy, made worse because we lost him in a car accident -- a man who's escaped more difficult situations than almost any one journalist in modern times ... we will miss him very much."Simon's career in news spanned some 50 years and earned him countless awards.Simon at an Americas Business Council forum at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in May 2010.Simon at an Americas Business Council forum at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in May 2010.In a March 2010 photo released by CBS, Simon confers with a news producer at the CBS Broadcast Center in New York. Simon's many awards included four Peabodys, 27 Emmys and the Overseas Press Club's highest honor for a body of work.In a March 2010 photo released by CBS, Simon confers with a news producer at the CBS Broadcast Center in New York. Simon's many awards included four Peabodys, 27 Emmys and the Overseas Press Club's highest honor for a body of work."60 Minutes" correspondents Mike Wallace, left, Simon and Steve Kroft during a behind-the-scenes photo shoot for Vanity Fair in 2003."60 Minutes" correspondents Mike Wallace, left, Simon and Steve Kroft during a behind-the-scenes photo shoot for Vanity Fair in 2003.Simon, far left, with other correspondents of "60 Minutes," and Don Hewitt, the executive producer, lower left, at the annual News and Documentary Emmy Awards in 2003. Next to Simon are Lesley Stahl, Ed Bradley, Morley Safer and Andy Rooney. In the back are, Christiane Amanpour, Diane Sawyer, Steve Kroft, Meredith Vieira and executive editor Philip Scheffler.Simon, far left, with other correspondents of "60 Minutes," and Don Hewitt, the executive producer, lower left, at the annual News and Documentary Emmy Awards in 2003. Next to Simon are Lesley Stahl, Ed Bradley, Morley Safer and Andy Rooney. In the back are, Christiane Amanpour, Diane Sawyer, Steve Kroft, Meredith Vieira and executive editor Philip Scheffler.Simon with his wife, Françoise, and daughter Tanya at the press conference after he was freed.Simon with his wife, Françoise, and daughter Tanya at the press conference after he was freed.Bob Simon with his CBS crew during a press conference after the Iraqis freed them following 40 days of imprisonment in 1991. From left: sound man Juan Caldera, producer Peter Bluff, Simon and cameraman Roberto Alvarez.Bob Simon with his CBS crew during a press conference after the Iraqis freed them following 40 days of imprisonment in 1991. From left: sound man Juan Caldera, producer Peter Bluff, Simon and cameraman Roberto Alvarez."60 Minutes" correspondent Bob Simon died Wednesday, February 11, in a car accident in New York, CBS News reported. He was 73. Simon's career in news spanned some 50 years and earned him countless awards."60 Minutes" correspondent Bob Simon died Wednesday, February 11, in a car accident in New York, CBS News reported. He was 73. Simon's career in news spanned some 50 years and earned him countless awards."Bob was, and I'll tell you it's very hard to talk about him in the past tense, but Bob was for the last five decades, simply one of the best, in my opinion ... at getting a story, telling a story, writing a story and making it simply unforgettable," said CNN's Anderson Cooper, who worked with Simon at "60 Minutes."The accidentBy the time officers arrived at the scene of the accident, Simon -- seated in the rear of a Lincoln Town Car -- was unconscious and unresponsive, with injuries to his head and torso, according to the NYPD.Simon was not wearing a seat belt. A preliminary report said Simon appeared to have died from head and neck trauma caused by the violent impact, according to a senior law enforcement source. He was transported to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead.The vehicle's 44-year-old driver, who suffered two broken legs and two broken arms, was listed in stable condition. The Lincoln Town Car collided with a Mercedes at a red light, police said, and then struck a stanchion dividing traffic. His driving record indicates prior traffic summonses, the senior law enforcement source said. The drivers of both cars passed sobriety tests.Crash investigators are looking at whether the Town Car was speeding when it crashed Wednesday evening, according to the senior law enforcement source. Speed is being investigated based on the trajectory of the Town Car following the impact with the Mercedes, which was going the same direction.Investigators are also trying to get information on whether either of the drivers were texting or were on their phones before the crash, the senior law enforcement said.A spokesman for New York's Taxi and Limousine Commission identified the driver of the town car as Abdul Reshad Fedahi. His license has been suspended pending the police investigation.His careerSimon joined CBS in 1967 as a reporter and editor based in New York. He went on to report from all over the world.Simon covered the war in Vietnam and was on one of the last helicopters out of Saigon, according to his CBS News biography.In 1991, he was captured by Iraqi forces at the start of the Gulf War. Simon and three colleagues spent 40 days in prison, an experience he later wrote about in his book "Forty Days."Among his many awards are four Peabodys, 27 Emmys and the Overseas Press Club's highest honor for a body of work, the biography read.Simon and his wife, Françoise, have one daughter, who is a producer for "60 Minutes."TributesTributes to the news veteran quickly poured in."Condolences to the family of my friend and long-time colleague," said former CBS anchor and "60 Minutes" alum Dan Rather.Condolences to the family of my friend and long-time colleague, CBS News Correspondent Bob Simon. — Dan Rather (@TheDanRather) February 12, 2015"So sorry to learn of the passing of Bob Simon," said former CNN host Larry King. "He was a great reporter & wonderful man. A frequent guest of mine."So sorry to learn of the passing of Bob Simon. He was a great reporter & wonderful man. A frequent guest of mine. So sorry to hear this. RIP — Larry King (@kingsthings) February 12, 2015"I never met him, but it feels like I knew him after all these years of watching @60Minutes," said comedian and actor Gilbert Gottfried.I never met him, but it feels like I knew him after all these years of watching @60Minutes . RIP Bob Simon — Gilbert Gottfried (@RealGilbert) February 12, 2015"He was a warrior-poet who loved life and loved people," said Cooper.He added: "I gotta say just on a personal basis, I grew up admiring Bob Simon, and whenever I gave talks at schools I'd always say Bob Simon is the greatest writer and the person I most look up at (in) this business. And when I started working at '60 Minutes,' to even be in the same halls, the same offices as Bob Simon, was such an honor, and it's just a huge loss for CBS and for everybody."