It's Tuesday, and here are the 5 Things to Know for Your New Day:WINTER WEATHERFrom the Plains to the Northeast, a second brutal winter storm in a week has left behind a deadly trail and record amounts of snow. You can see it in the aftermath : Canceled classes, grounded flights and massive piles of snow along roadways. And we're only in early February. Boston has already gotten a year's worth of snow in the last two weeks. The 16.2 inches that fell on Chicago on Sunday set a single-day record at O'Hare International Airport. Keep the snow boots handy.MEASLESThe outbreak: Just over a month into 2015 and the U.S. is already reporting Just over a month into 2015 and the U.S. is already reporting 102 cases of measles . It doesn't sound like a huge number, but last year there were 644 cases, so we're nearly a sixth of the way there. To give you some perspective, the highest number of cases in a single year between 2001 and 2011 was 220. While it's true that most of them can be traced back to an outbreak at Disneyland in California, it still points out how quickly measles can spread when children aren't vaccinated. Some parents opt out of vaccinations for religious reasons or out of concerns they aren't safe.Last year saw the greatest number of measles cases since 2000. Will 2015 surpass that mark? From @CDCgov pic.twitter.com/n1Loj5i4uJ — Mariano Castillo (@marianoCNN) February 2, 2015CASTRO PHOTOSEl Presidente: We have some new pictures of We have some new pictures of former Cuban leader Fidel Castro this morning. The 21 photos are the first we've seen of him since August. They were published in state media. So why did we get them now? There have been plenty of rumors and speculation about Castro's health. This is probably supposed to show us that he's OK.JUST WATCHED Cuban state media posts new Fidel Castro photos Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cuban state media posts new Fidel Castro photos 01:42SUGE KNIGHTNew legal trouble: is expected to be arraigned today on a murder charge and other counts for a hit-and-run in Compton, California, according to the Los Angeles County District Attorney's office. He is being held without bail. Knight, 49, faces up to life in prison if convicted in the fatal hit-and-run. Former rap mogul Marion "Suge" Knight is expected to be arraigned today on a murder charge and other counts for a hit-and-run in Compton, California, according to the Los Angeles County District Attorney's office. He is being held without bail. Knight, 49, faces up to life in prison if convicted in the fatal hit-and-run.JUST WATCHED Suge Knight faces new legal trouble after hit-and-run Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Suge Knight faces new legal trouble after hit-and-run 02:48BOBBI KRISTINA BROWNFighting for her life: Days after she was found face-down and unresponsive in a bathtub full of water at her Roswell, Georgia, home, Whitney Houston's daughter Days after she was found face-down and unresponsive in a bathtub full of water at her Roswell, Georgia, home, Whitney Houston's daughter Bobbi Kristina Brown is on a ventilator and in intensive care, a source close to the family said. Brown, 21, is in a medically induced coma and the status of her brain function won't be known until the sedatives are reduced, the source told CNN. The source said yesterday that Brown is in "really bad shape."