(CNN) More details emerge on the North Carolina shooting. Ukraine and Russia agree on a ceasefire. And poor Boston to get more snow.It's Friday, and here are the Five Things to Know for Your New Day.UKRAINE CRISISMarathon peace talks aimed at ending the bloody crisis in eastern U kraine concluded yesterday in a breakthrough: A ceasefire that's due to start Sunday and an agreement for both sides to pull back heavy weapons. If the ceasefire holds -- which is far from certain -- it could end a 10-month conflict that has claimed more than 5,000 lives and plunged East-West relations to their lowest point since the end of the Cold War.'FIFTY SHADES OF GREY 'To see or not to see?: Should you beat it to the theater Friday to see "Fifty Shades of Grey"? The verdict is in, and it seems that the critics have not been Should you beat it to the theater Friday to see "Fifty Shades of Grey"? The verdict is in, and it seems that the critics have not been blown away by the eagerly awaited film . Meanwhile, some countries have banned it.JUST WATCHED Does 'Fifty Shades of Grey' deliver on excitement? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Does 'Fifty Shades of Grey' deliver on excitement? 02:44MORE SNOW IN BOSTONNot again!: More flakes will come down in Boston on Saturday night and Sunday on top of record level piles on the ground, the National Weather Service says. Forecasters are warning people in coastal Massachusetts that conditions will be just right for a blizzard. The snow that has already fallen in Boston is almost the stuff of mythology. The city has set a record 42 inches for the whole month of February. It's only about half over, and the new snowfall could add another 8 to 14 inches.JUST WATCHED Heavy snowfall reaches dangerous levels in Northeast Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Heavy snowfall reaches dangerous levels in Northeast 02:26BOBBI KRISTINABoyfriend not welcome: Bobbi Kristina Brown, the 21-year-old daughter of musical giant Whitney Houston, was found face down in a bathtub full of water on January 31. Bobbi Kristina Brown, the 21-year-old daughter of musical giant Whitney Houston, was found face down in a bathtub full of water on January 31. And as she fights for her life at an Atlanta hospital, her relatives say her boyfriend, Nick Gordon, is not welcome at the hospital.JUST WATCHED Investigators focus on Bobbi Kristina's boyfriend Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Investigators focus on Bobbi Kristina's boyfriend 01:57NORTH CAROLINA SHOOTINGWho is the alleged gunman?: Neighbors say Neighbors say suspect Craig Hicks was known for angrily confronting people over everything from loud music to parking issues in his neighborhood in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. More details are emerging on the man suspected of killing three Muslim students.