(CNN) ISIS attacks Kurdish forces but is ultimately repelled. The defense rests in the "American Sniper" trial. And the ceasefire falls apart in Ukraine.It's Wednesday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayISISCHRIS KYLEAmerican sniper trial: The prosecution rested yesterday in the The prosecution rested yesterday in the trail of Eddie Ray Routh , who is accused in the 2013 shooting deaths of Chris Kyle and Chad Littlefield. Routh's lawyer admits his client killed Kyle and Littlefield, but contends he was insane at the time. Prosecutors have described Routh as a troubled young man, but they argue he wasn't insane; they say his actions were those of a cold-blooded killer. Kyle was a former Navy SEAL who claimed to be the deadliest sniper in U.S. history. He's the subject of the hit Hollywood movie "American Sniper."JUST WATCHED Video shows American Sniper shooter in police car Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video shows American Sniper shooter in police car 03:05UKRAINETruce? What truce?: The The ceasefire isn't going well in eastern Ukraine. The truce between the government in Ukraine and pro-Russian separatists is pretty much nonexistent. The U.N. Security Council unanimously approved a resolution yesterday, calling on all parties to abide by the ceasefire, but it doesn't look like anyone's paying attention. Washington has accused Russia of fueling the conflict by backing separatist forces. Moscow denies any role.JUST WATCHED U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine: Putin can stop this violence Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine: Putin can stop this violence 03:41IMMIGRATIONWait a minute: Republicans on Capitol Hill are cheering a judge's ruling that puts the brakes on the Republicans on Capitol Hill are cheering a judge's ruling that puts the brakes on the President's executive order on immigration . Barack Obama's action would delay the deportations of millions of immigrants. The White House has promised to appeal the decision, saying the injunction against his executive order will ultimately be overruled. U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said the legal process will take some time to play out.JUST WATCHED Texas judge blocks Obama's immigration action Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Texas judge blocks Obama's immigration action 01:58KENTUCKY SHOOTINGFamily gone: Folks in Corbin, Kentucky, are shocked over Folks in Corbin, Kentucky, are shocked over the death of Jason Hendrix . The 16-year-old's brief life ended in a hail of gunfire with police over the weekend after Hendrix allegedly ignored a traffic stop by a Maryland state trooper more than 600 miles from home. The investigation into Hendrix's background resulted in the discovery of the three bodies in Kentucky -- his parents and his sister. Investigators say the motive may have been an argument with his parents over cellphone and computer use, but they're still trying to sort things out.JUST WATCHED Teen killed in police shootout, family found dead Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Teen killed in police shootout, family found dead 01:28Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Check out these chicks: Meet the newest online sensation, two bald eagles tending to their eaglets at Berry College in north Georgia. You can see them on the school's " Meet the newest online sensation, two bald eagles tending to their eaglets at Berry College in north Georgia. You can see them on the school's " Eagle Cam ."JUST WATCHED Eagles nest on campus of Berry College Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Eagles nest on campus of Berry College 01:00On the other hand: Ever wonder why some people are left-handed? Well, wonder no more.Hero dog: Nine-year-old boxer : Nine-year-old boxer Carmen went home this week after two weeks of care at an animal hospital . She tried to save the life of her owner Ben Ledford during a house fire by shielding his face from the heat. He didn't survive. Carmen now has a new home with Ben's brother Phil and his wife.