Boston (CNN) Even as the defense for accused Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev continued its quest to move the trial to another city, prosecutors indicated Thursday that a federal court is drawing close to finding enough unbiased jurors in Boston.Sixty-one prospects have been identified as qualified to decide the capital case against Tsarnaev, Assistant U. S. Attorney William Weinreb announced at a federal appeals court hearing before a three-judge panel. The attorneys plan to pick 12 jurors and six alternates from a pool of 70.U.S. District Judge George O'Toole has turned down three previous defense requests to move the trial. He is convinced he can find enough impartial jurors among the 1,373 people who filled out lengthy questionnaires.To prevail at the appeals court level, the defense will have to convince two of the three judges that extraordinary circumstances are creating a hardship that is likely to cause irreparable harm. Judith Mizner, appellate chief of the federal public defender's office, suggested that the real harm might be a loss of faith in the judicial system.The defense says "Boston Strong" slogans are easy to find in the city, including on this cement mixer.Jury selection began on January 5, and has lasted far longer than anyone expected . Court also has been closed on six days by snowstorms.The brief hearing on arguments on the change of venue issue interrupted the morning's session of jury selection. It will be the 18th day. So far, 219 people have been questioned closely about their opinions about Tsarnaev's guilt, their feelings about the death penalty and whether they or anyone they knew was directly affected by the bombing and deadly police shootout a few days later.Another "Boston Strong" banner rises above a sign for the federal courthouse in the city.The defense says it is impossible to overcome the bias against Tsarnaev in Boston. Mizner pointed to construction crews working outside the courthouse who have raised "Boston Strong" banners and painted the rallying slogan on the sides of cement mixers."This attack is viewed as an attack on the marathon itself and an attack on the city of Boston," Mizner said. She cited juror responses such as these:• "Why waste time on a trial because this guy is guilty."• "We should skip the trial and go right to the sentencing."• "For this case, I think a public execution would be appropriate, particularly by a mom of a victim at the finish line."Photos: How long does it take to pick a jury? Photos: How long does it take to pick a jury? Jury selection in the trial of accused Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has taken longer than the judge had expected. For several weeks, prospective jurors have each taken a turn in the hot seat, being questioned by U.S. District Judge George A. O'Toole and attorneys for the prosecution and defense, as Tsarnaev, second from right in this court sketch, listened. But this case isn't the longest jury selection ever, by far. Although no one appears to keep official records on such matters, several infamous cases over the years have taken months to pick a jury, and longtime jury consultant Jo-Ellan Dimitrius recalls one jury selection that took the better part of a year. Click through the gallery to learn more: Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: How long does it take to pick a jury? Dimitrius helped pick the jury that eventually acquitted O.J. Simpson of murder charges in 1995. Simpson didn't face the death penalty, and it took about three months to pick a jury in his Los Angeles trial. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: How long does it take to pick a jury? It took only 10 days to select a jury in the 2011 murder trial of Casey Anthony despite public sentiment against her. Anthony was accused of killing her 2-year-old daughter, Caylee, but the jury acquitted her of first-degree murder and the other most serious charges against her. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: How long does it take to pick a jury? The jury that heard the 2013 case against George Zimmerman, center, was picked in a day. The six-woman panel acquitted the Florida night watchman of charges he intentionally killed Florida teenager Trayvon Martin. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: How long does it take to pick a jury? It took about four months to seat a jury to hear the 2004 case against Scott Peterson, right, accused of murdering his wife and unborn son. Peterson was represented by prominent Los Angeles defense attorney Mark Geragos, left. Peterson was convicted and sentenced to death. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: How long does it take to pick a jury? It took 47 days to empanel a jury in Connecticut to hear one of the most horrific death penalty cases in recent memory, the so-called Cheshire murders. Two ex-cons, Steven Hayes, left, and Joshua Komisarjevsky, were convicted and sentenced to death for the 2007 home invasion murders of the wife and daughters of a prominent endocrinologist. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: How long does it take to pick a jury? Consultant Dimitrius says the longest jury selection might belong to the trial of Richard Ramirez, known as "the Night Stalker." It took nine months to seat a jury in the capital murder case against Ramirez. His spree of serial murders, rapes and home invasions terrified Los Angeles and San Francisco in the mid-1980s. He received 13 death sentences but died of cancer in prison. In this 1985 courtoom photo, Ramirez displays a pentagram symbol on his hand. Hide Caption 7 of 7But prosecutors countered that painstaking individual questioning of jurors is successfully identifying people who promise to keep an open mind and decide the case based on the evidence they hear in court.The defense asserts that the trial should be moved because 98% of the people who filled out questionnaires either believe Tsarnaev is guilty, have a connection to the marathon or know someone who was a victim's relative, a first responder or on the staff of the hospitals that treated more than 260 maimed or injured people.Three people, including an 8-year-old boy, died on April 15, 2013, when two pressure cooker bombs went off, just moments apart, near the marathon finish line. An MIT police officer was ambushed and shot to death days later as Tsarneav and his older brother, Tamerlan, allegedly tried to escape capture by police. Tamerlan died in the gunfight.The three-judge appeals court said it will rule later on the venue issue.Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was arrested on April 19, 2013, after a massive manhunt. An overnight shootout with police killed the other suspect -- Tsarnaev's 26-year-old brother, Tamerlan. A jury condemned Tsarnaev to death on Friday, May 15, for his role in killing four people and wounding hundreds more. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev On April 18, 2013, the FBI released photos and videos of two suspects and asked the public to help identify them. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found on April 19, 2013, in a boat that was dry-docked in the backyard of a Watertown home. He was covered in blood from bullet wounds. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev The August 2013 cover of Rolling Stone featured Tsarnaev and sparked a backlash against the magazine. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Tsarnaev stands in court, flanked by his lawyers, in this sketch from July 2013. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev An image posted to the social sharing website Reddit purportedly shows Dzhokhar Tsarnaev being detained by law enforcement officers. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Tsarnaev was seen on this convenience store surveillance video that was released by the Boston Police Department. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev A still of the suspects from footage released by the FBI after the bombing. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Additional photos and video were released by the FBI. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev A picture of Tsarnaev from his apparent profile on VKontakte, a Russian social network similar to Facebook. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev The Boston Police Department also released this undated photograph of Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 11 of 11Meanwhile, jury selection is continuing, with just nine more to be found before each side exercises 23 challenges, dismissing individual jurors without having to explain why. Those left standing will likely end up on the jury of a three- to four-month trial that could be wrenching and gruesome at times.