Atlanta (CNN) As Bobbi Kristina Brown fights for her life at an Atlanta hospital, the public spat between her boyfriend and her family goes on.In social media posts, Nick Gordon said he's been prevented from visiting Brown, the daughter of music legend Whitney Houston."Let me in the hospital to see my girl and let her hear my voice," he tweeted Saturday. "If she hears my voice, let me massage her, play her favorite music I believe it will help."But Brown's father slammed the accusation, saying Gordon was offered a chance to visit her.Bobbi Kristina posted this photo to Instagram about 2 a.m. ET on Saturday, January 31. Hours later, she was found facedown in her bathtub, alive but unresponsive.Bobbi Kristina posted this photo to Instagram about 2 a.m. ET on Saturday, January 31. Hours later, she was found facedown in her bathtub, alive but unresponsive.Bobbi Kristina and her grandmother Cissy Houston attend a premiere party for the show in October 2012.Bobbi Kristina and her grandmother Cissy Houston attend a premiere party for the show in October 2012.Pat Houston and Bobbi Kristina were among the family members appearing in "The Houstons: On Our Own," a reality show that aired on Lifetime in 2012.Pat Houston and Bobbi Kristina were among the family members appearing in "The Houstons: On Our Own," a reality show that aired on Lifetime in 2012.Bobbi Kristina Brown and Nick Gordon arrive at the 2012 movie premiere of "Sparkle" in Hollywood. Brown and Gordon reportedly were engaged in 2013. An attorney for her father says the two never married , contrary to some reports.Bobbi Kristina and Neil Portnow, president of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, attend "We Will Always Love You: A Grammy Salute to Whitney Houston" in October 2012.Bobbi Kristina and Neil Portnow, president of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, attend "We Will Always Love You: A Grammy Salute to Whitney Houston" in October 2012.Houston's sister-in-law Pat Houston and Bobbi Kristina accept the Millennium Award on behalf of Houston at the 2012 Billboard Music Awards.Houston's sister-in-law Pat Houston and Bobbi Kristina accept the Millennium Award on behalf of Houston at the 2012 Billboard Music Awards.Bobbi Kristina was 18 when her mother was found dead in a Beverly Hills hotel room. Here, Bobbi Kristina arrives at a funeral home in Newark, New Jersey.Bobbi Kristina was 18 when her mother was found dead in a Beverly Hills hotel room. Here, Bobbi Kristina arrives at a funeral home in Newark, New Jersey.Bobbi Kristina's famous parents gave her frequent access to music royalty. Here she is with her mother, left, and cousin Dionne Warwick in 2011.Bobbi Kristina's famous parents gave her frequent access to music royalty. Here she is with her mother, left, and cousin Dionne Warwick in 2011.Singer-actress Jennifer Hudson, right, poses with 18-year-old Bobbi Kristina at a pre-Grammys gala in 2011.Singer-actress Jennifer Hudson, right, poses with 18-year-old Bobbi Kristina at a pre-Grammys gala in 2011.Bobbi Kristina, 16, joins her mother for a 2009 appearance on ABC's "Good Morning America." The free performance was taped in New York's Central Park.Bobbi Kristina, 16, joins her mother for a 2009 appearance on ABC's "Good Morning America." The free performance was taped in New York's Central Park.Another photo of Bobbi Kristina with her parents, who separated in 2006 and divorced the next year.Another photo of Bobbi Kristina with her parents, who separated in 2006 and divorced the next year.Bobbi Kristina, 6, appears with her mom on stage at a 1999 concert in New York.Bobbi Kristina, 6, appears with her mom on stage at a 1999 concert in New York.Bobbi Kristina, 3, accompanies her mother to the premiere of "The Preacher's Wife" in 1996.Bobbi Kristina, 3, accompanies her mother to the premiere of "The Preacher's Wife" in 1996.Bobbi Kristina was photographed with her famous parents often in the early years of their marriage. Here she is with them in the mid-'90s.Bobbi Kristina was photographed with her famous parents often in the early years of their marriage. Here she is with them in the mid-'90s.In this undated photo, probably from 1993, Houston and her husband pose with their infant daughter.In this undated photo, probably from 1993, Houston and her husband pose with their infant daughter.Bobby Brown, Houston and a 3-month-old Bobbi Kristina arrive at New York's Kennedy Airport in 1993.Bobby Brown, Houston and a 3-month-old Bobbi Kristina arrive at New York's Kennedy Airport in 1993.Bobbi Kristina Brown, the daughter of singers Whitney Houston and Bobby Brown, was found unresponsive in a bathtub at her Georgia home on January 31, 2015. She died at an Atlanta-area hospice on July 26, 2015 at the age of 22.Bobbi Kristina Brown, the daughter of singers Whitney Houston and Bobby Brown, was found unresponsive in a bathtub at her Georgia home on January 31, 2015. She died at an Atlanta-area hospice on July 26, 2015 at the age of 22."Let me be very clear, Mr. Gordon was offered an opportunity to potentially visit Bobbi Kristina and he declined to meet the terms of any possible visit," R&B singer Bobby Brown said in a statement through his lawyers."Obviously Mr. Gordon is not as desperate to visit Bobbi Kristina as he wants the world to believe."The statement did not specify what the terms were.Without specifying the details of those terms, Gordon's lawyers said they advised him against meeting them, "particularly in light of Mr. Brown's inability to guarantee access.""In an effort to do all he can to visit, Nick has repeatedly offered to meet with Mr. Brown privately to discuss his request in person, rather than through lawyers," lawyers Randall M. Kessler and Joe S. Habachy said in a statement. "Those offers have also been rejected. We hope Mr. Brown has a change of heart."Bobby Brown's attorney responded with another statement, saying Gordon has yet to tell Brown in writing what happened to his daughter."Due to Mr. Gordon's failure to place in tangible form his understanding of the events that lead to the hospitalization of Bobbi Kristina, there is no reason for any additional discussion with him," attorney Christopher Brown said in a statement."Mr. Gordon has every right to remain silent and not share his version of the events with Bobby Brown. We are only concerned with individuals that can help Bobbi Kristina and bring resolution to this investigation."Bobbi Kristina Brown, 21, remains in a medically induced coma at Emory University three weeks after she was found unresponsive in a bathtub.Doctors are attempting to slowly lift her coma, according to sources close to the family. Her breathing tube has been removed, and she will now be ventilated through a hole in her throat.Police have said they're treating her case as a criminal investigation after she was found on January 31 at her home in Roswell, Georgia.The extent of her injuries is not known.Let me in the hospital to see my girl and let her hear my voice SHE WILL WAKE UP!!! @REALbkBrown @YFKennedy — Nick Gordon (@nickdgordon) February 21, 2015Her mother, who died in 2012, was similarly found in a bathtub. A coroner ruled Houston's death an accidental drowning, with heart disease and cocaine use listed as contributing factors.Brown is her only child.