(CNN) From the Plains to the Northeast, a second brutal winter storm in a week has left behind a deadly trail and record amounts of snow.You can see it in the aftermath: Canceled classes, grounded flights and massive piles of snow along roadways.And we're only in early February.Record-setterThe Boston area has gotten the worst of it.Bean Town set a new record for snowiest seven-day period in the city's history with 40.2 inches, the National Weather Service reported. Boston's average annual snowfall is 47 inches. The city has already gotten more than that over the last two weeks.More snow has fallen in Boston in the past seven-day period than in any other week on record http://t.co/tWHp5j8sLV pic.twitter.com/hDO4tHT4nq — The Boston Globe (@BostonGlobe) February 2, 2015It's a similar story in Chicago where the latest storm dumped 19.3 inches of snow.Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast Pedestrians maneuver around huge snow piles as they walk through Boston's Financial District on Tuesday, February 3. The Boston area has received about 40 inches of snow in the past week. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast Calvin Healy, left, helps his brother Tyler dig out his car Monday, February 2, in Chicago. The storm dumped nearly 20 inches of snow in the Windy City. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast People try to free a stranded car in Chicago after it became stuck in snow on February 2. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast A plow clears snow on Interstate 295 in Yarmouth, Maine, on February 2. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast A man removes snow and ice from his car in Omaha, Nebraska, on February 2. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast Pedestrians make their way around lower Manhattan on a cold and wet morning in New York on February 2. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast A woman leans into the wind in Portland, Maine, on February 2. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast A man digs his car out of the snow February 2 in Chicago. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast A person crosses snow-covered train tracks in New York on February 2. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast A driver cleans snow off school buses in Derry, New Hampshire, on February 2. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast A car parked in Blue Island, Illinois, is buried by snow on February 2. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast Toby Hirshman holds onto his dog Macy as his other dog, Wally, runs in the fresh snow February 2 in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast Traffic on Interstate 94 is backed up in Harper Woods, Michigan, on February 2. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast The tarmac of New York's LaGuardia Airport is cleared on February 2. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast A United Airlines jet blows snow on a runway at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago on Sunday, February 1. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast A worker clears snow from a Chicago train platform on February 1. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Winter storm hits Midwest, moves to Northeast O'Hare International Airport crews work to clear a runway on February 1. Hide Caption 17 of 17The 16.2 inches recorded at O'Hare International Airport just Sunday were the most ever for any February day in the Windy City. The city got as much snow Sunday as it had in all of January, Mayor Rahm Emanuel said.And to add insult to injury. "We don't have this much snow in Alaska right now," Chicago visitors Emma Marks and Daniel Dobbs told CNN affiliate WLS.The tollAuthorities say at least 10 people have died as a result of the storm.In Weymouth, Massachusetts, on Monday, a 57-year old pedestrian died after she was struck by a snowplow. The accident occurred at a condominium complex, and the incident is under investigation.Two people died in car accidents in Nebraska as a result of slippery roads Sunday. The deaths occurred in Saunders and Lancaster counties, authorities said. In Ohio, Toledo Police Officer Michael Greenwood died while shoveling snow at home Sunday, a police spokesman said.The six other deaths are one in Michigan, two in New York, two in Wisconsin and one in Pennsylvania.Closing streets and schoolsBoston declared a snow emergency and banned on-street parking as snow piled up. City schools will be closed again Tuesday.The storm even forced Boston Mayor Marty Walsh to postpone the victory parade for the New England Patriots, who won the Super Bowl on Sunday night. The parade, which had been scheduled for Tuesday, will now happen a day later.New Yorkers were told to be prepared for roads and sidewalks to turn icy as temperatures plummeted. Overnight lows hit the single digits with wind chills knocking them into negative numbers.Back in the Midwest, scores of schools closed Monday as Chicago coped with the snow. Most schools systems will be back open Tuesday.In Omaha, Nebraska, wet, heavy snow tested even heavy-duty snow blowers, CNN affiliate KETV reported."It kept coming and coming and coming," Frank Halpine said.Travel headachesMonday was another ugly day for air travelers as more than 4,300 flights were canceled, according to Flightaware.com . Another 500 flights have been scrubbed for Tuesday as well.The air travel headache started over the weekend, with thousands of flights canceled Sunday, many of them in and out of Chicago. Boston, New York and Detroit were also hard hit.No relief from PhilPennsylvania groundhog Punxsutawney Phil didn't have to suffer the snow, but still forecast six more weeks of winter at his annual Groundhog Day appearance Monday.Legend has it that if Phil sees his shadow, there will be six more weeks of winter weather. If he doesn't, there will be an early spring.Nan Moore, who was visiting Punxsutawney to witness the prediction, correctly predicted the rodent's forecast."He's going to see his shadow," she said. "We're going to get more winter."