(CNN) Cleaning the "superbug" out of a hospital instrument may prove challenging; Ukraine's Maidan uprising is one year old today, and Rudy Giuliani claims President Obama doesn't love America.It's Friday and here are the 5 things to know for your New Day.SUPERBUGThe superbug CRE outbreak that led to the death of two patients at a Los Angeles hospital was caused by two medical scopes that still carried the bacteria even after they were disinfected. The superbug had become "embedded" in the scopes, UCLA Health officials say. The FDA has warned this could happen. Seven people are known to have been infected during special endoscopic procedures. Over 100 more may have been exposed to CRE.VEGAS ROAD RAGEMy neighbor, my enemy: Just road rage? Just road rage? There may be more behind the killing of a woman in Las Vegas after a bout of road rage. She knew her alleged shooter; they lived in the same neighborhood. Tammy Meyers used to talk to Erich Nowsch at a park near their homes. She gave him money, fed him, tried to turn him around, said Meyer's husband, Robert. "We knew how bad he was, but we didn't know it was this bad."JUST WATCHED Vegas road rage suspect in custody Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Vegas road rage suspect in custody 02:12GIULIANI SAID WHAT?He don't love you, like I love you: Before he threw his punch at President Obama, Before he threw his punch at President Obama, Rudy Giuliani wound up: "I know this is a horrible thing to say...He doesn't love you." Obama doesn't love America, Politico reported Giuliani as saying. He wasn't "brought up the way you were brought up." The White House counterpunched with tweets under the hashtag #ObamaLovesAmerica. It became a social media vortex for the President's supporters, detractors and court jesters.JUST WATCHED Giuliani: Obama doesn't love America Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Giuliani: Obama doesn't love America 02:00UKRAINE ONE YEARFrom Maidan to standoff: A year ago today, A year ago today, more than 50 activists in Kiev's Maidan, or Independence Square, were killed , and hundreds more were injured in the bloodiest day of the revolution protests. A year later, Ukraine is a powder keg. A ceasefire is in shambles. Debaltseve, a town at the heart of the battle between Ukrainian forces and pro-Russian separatists, is devastated. The ramifications for the West are huge because the conflict in eastern Ukraine has hiked tensions with Russia to a level not seen since the end of the Cold War.JUST WATCHED One year since violent day on Kiev's Maidan Square Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH One year since violent day on Kiev's Maidan Square 01:24ISIS FINANCERolling in blood and money: Their acts of violence are revolting, but ISIS probably has Their acts of violence are revolting, but ISIS probably has more business acumen than any other group of terrorists ever, experts say . The extremists are rolling in money via illegal oil deals that bring in $1 to $2 million a day. Last year, ISIS announced they may mine for silver and gold. But some of their businesses are almost as revolting as their beheadings: They kidnap and hold for ransom; steal and sell artifacts; extort "taxes" from captured cities, and they may be harvesting organs and selling them.JUST WATCHED Is ISIS in the business of harvesting organs? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is ISIS in the business of harvesting organs? 02:54Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Poor baby! No need to hide your drink in a brown paper bag. You'll look like a responsible dad, when you drink out of this plastic baby strapped to your chest instead.Muskrat love: Not all rodents are dirty. Capybaras are supposedly the world's largest, and they love a good, hot bath, when it's cold.I, robot: Commander Data never ate this good.Fightin' words: Don't mess with this 3-year-old. Because she'll talk you into a corner.Time stands still: It almost does when this high-tech, superspeed camera shoots...anything.