(CNN) Jordan executes two al Qaeda prisoners in retaliation. A New York train collision kills seven. And a "To Kill a Mockingbird" sequel is on the way.It's Wednesday, and here are the 5 Things to Know for Your New Day:ISIS OUTRAGETRAIN COLLISIONStuck on the tracks: A packed A packed Metro North commuter train plowed into a Jeep Cherokee on the tracks north of New York City yesterday, bursting into flames and killing at least seven people. Six of those killed were on board the train. The seventh fatality was the driver of the Jeep. The woman driving the SUV got stuck on the tracks when the crossing gates came down. The train was filled with more than 600 people at the time of the collision.JUST WATCHED At least seven killed when train hits SUV near New York Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH At least seven killed when train hits SUV near New York 03:21VACCINESThe unvaccinated: With the With the measles outbreak across the U.S. , many are asking: Who are these parents that aren't bringing their kids in for vaccinations? First of all, it's a relatively small group. The CDC says 95% of children in kindergarten have had vaccines for preventable diseases. Nearly all states allow religious exemptions. A smaller number let folks opt out for philosophical reasons. Many parents of unvaccinated children say they're concerned about side effects, autism and children having too many shots as they're growing up. Doctors say they're myths.JUST WATCHED Dr. Gupta answers your questions on vaccines Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dr. Gupta answers your questions on vaccines 02:31BOBBI KRISTINANew hospital: is now being treated at Atlanta's Emory University Hospital after being found facedown in a bathtub of water over the weekend. The daughter of singers Bobby Brown and Whitney Houston remains in a fight for her life. Her family has been tight-lipped on the 21-year-old's condition, but at last report she was on a ventilator in the intensive care unit. The family's lawyer threw out this tidbit last night: "We are currently investigating the events that led to the hospitalization of Bobbi Kristina." What does that mean? We're not sure, but police haven't said anything yet that points to foul play. Bobbi Kristina Brown is now being treated at Atlanta's Emory University Hospital after being found facedown in a bathtub of water over the weekend. The daughter of singers Bobby Brown and Whitney Houston remains in a fight for her life. Her family has been tight-lipped on the 21-year-old's condition, but at last report she was on a ventilator in the intensive care unit. The family's lawyer threw out this tidbit last night: "We are currently investigating the events that led to the hospitalization of Bobbi Kristina." What does that mean? We're not sure, but police haven't said anything yet that points to foul play.JUST WATCHED Social media clues in Bobbi Kristina incident? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Social media clues in Bobbi Kristina incident? 01:54HARPER LEEWhat took so long?: Fifty-five years is a long time to wait for a sequel, but we'll be getting one later this year for " Fifty-five years is a long time to wait for a sequel, but we'll be getting one later this year for " To Kill a Mockingbird ." It's called "Go Set a Watchman," and follows Scout, the little girl from "Mockingbird," as an adult. Harper Lee's classic novel came out in 1960 and was destined to be her only literary work until the manuscript for "Watchman" was rediscovered last year, the 88-year-old Lee said in a statement from her publisher. The new book was actually written before "Mockingbird," but was set aside at the advice of her editor. Mark your calendars for July 14 if you're interested.JUST WATCHED Harper Lee to publish second book Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Harper Lee to publish second book 01:28Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Beginners luck: In her first time bowling, this 84-year-old granny knocks 'em all down on her first throw -- or so we're told.Listen again: Remember the 1980s hit by The Proclaimers "I'm Gonna Be (500 miles)?" Well, forget about it. Here's a totally new version from "The Voice UK."Dope rhymes: While we're reworking the hits, here's Brian Williams laying down some phat beats as he covers Snoop Dogg's "Who Am I?" Or maybe, it's just a clever "Tonight Show" edit.A LEGO short film: Did you know, you can paint with the popular little bricks?Triple the panda-monium: The world's only panda triplets are now six months old. Warning: cuteness alert.