(CNN) Another U.S. hostage in Syria is dead. NBC suspends Brian Williams. And U.S. troops on Ebola duty are headed home.It's Wednesday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayISIS U.S. CAPTIVE DEADThe family of Kayla Mueller revealed devastating news yesterday. The American hostage held by ISIS was dead, her family said. The news came in a message from her captors over the weekend. The message sent to the family included photos, according to a U.S. official. Last week, ISIS clamed Mueller, an aid worker who was captured in northern Syria in 2013, had been killed during a Jordanian airstirke on Raqqa, but offered no proof. The White House blamed ISIS for her death, saying they were responsible for her well-being.ANCHOR SHAKEUPUnpaid leave: "NBC Nightly News" anchor "NBC Nightly News" anchor Brian Williams has been suspended for six months without pay following revelations that he exaggerated tales from an Iraq War mission in 2003. There is a widespread belief among rank-and-file NBC staffers that he may never actually return to the anchor chair he has held since 2004. Meanwhile, NBC's investigative unit is continuing to fact-check Williams' past reports and could come up with more damaging revelations.JUST WATCHED Brian Williams suspended six months without pay Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Brian Williams suspended six months without pay 02:08Fake-news changes: Jon Stewart is leaving "The Daily Show" after more than 15 years. Comedy Central had no immediate comment on when exactly Stewart will sign off, but it could happen as soon as this summer.JUST WATCHED Jon Stewart is leaving 'The Daily Show' later this year Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jon Stewart is leaving 'The Daily Show' later this year 01:01BOBBI KRISTINAInvestigation: , the boyfriend of Bobbi Kristina Brown, about bruises on her chest after she was found unresponsive in a bathtub on January 31, a friend of the young woman said. Daphne Barak said Gordon told her that the bruises were a result of him performing CPR on her. Brown, the daughter of Bobby Brown and the late Whitney Houston, remains in a medically induced coma in a neuro intensive care unit at Atlanta's Emory University Hospital. Police have questioned Nick Gordon , the boyfriend of Bobbi Kristina Brown, about bruises on her chest after she was found unresponsive in a bathtub on January 31, a friend of the young woman said. Daphne Barak said Gordon told her that the bruises were a result of him performing CPR on her. Brown, the daughter of Bobby Brown and the late Whitney Houston, remains in a medically induced coma in a neuro intensive care unit at Atlanta's Emory University Hospital.JUST WATCHED Who is Nick Gordon? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Nick Gordon? 02:34CHRIS KYLE MURDER TRIALCourt case begins: The trial begins today for the man accused of killing The trial begins today for the man accused of killing "American Sniper" Chris Kyle and another man. Prosecutors say Eddie Ray Routh murdered Kyle and Kyle's friend Chad Littlefield at a firing range on February 2, 2013. Kyle's fame made selecting a jury troublesome. His memoir, "American Sniper" is a best-seller and the movie based on the book has taken in close to $300 million at the box office.JUST WATCHED American snipers speak out against Bradley Cooper movie Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH American snipers speak out against Bradley Cooper movie 03:21EBOLAVirus battle: The Pentagon said its bringing home nearly all the U.S. troops it sent to West Africa 10 months ago to The Pentagon said its bringing home nearly all the U.S. troops it sent to West Africa 10 months ago to help with the Ebola epidemic . At the peak, about 2,800 American military personnel were deployed. About half have already returned. All but about 100 will be back home by the end of April. There have been more than 22,000 reported confirmed, probable and suspected cases of Ebola since the outbreak began, with almost 8,800 known deaths. The number of new cases continues to drop, according to the World Health Organization.JUST WATCHED Ebola quarantine: People see you as a threat Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ebola quarantine: People see you as a threat 02:41Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Haters gonna hate: Check out the commander in chief gettin' down on Taylor Swift's "Shake It Off."Such a ham: Watch Pearl the piglet run hog wild in a very pink room.Mega what?: Today we answer the question: What do you do with an old abandoned mine? Answer: You create Today we answer the question: What do you do with an old abandoned mine? Answer: You create Mega Underground Bike Park . It's in Louisville, Kentucky.Howling success: Shelby the German Shepherd loves to sing along to Shelby the German Shepherd loves to sing along to Maroon 5's "Animals."Left shark, right shark: Our two favorite sharks come to SportsCenter.Correction: Earlier versions of this report incorrectly described the military background of Chad Littlefield, who was killed with Chris Kyle. Littlefield was not a veteran.