(CNN) Boston gets another blast of winter. Europe considers more Russia sanctions. And Sam Smith cleans up at the Grammys.It's Monday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayWINTER WEATHERSometimes you just can't catch a break. Boston and large chucks of the Northeast are getting hammered again. Snow accumulations of 12 to 16 inches will be common across central and northeast Massachusetts. Some places could get up to 2 feet of the white stuff. Schools are closed today and tomorrow. Boston has already set a record for the snowiest seven-day period in history, with over 40 inches. The city is way past its annual snowfall average of 47 inches.UKRAINETightening the screws: European Union foreign ministers are meeting in Brussels, Belgium, today to decide whether to European Union foreign ministers are meeting in Brussels, Belgium, today to decide whether to expand Russian sanctions . In Washington, President Barack Obama and German Chancellor Angela Merkel are meeting too. Later this week, the leaders of Russia, Ukraine, Germany and France may meet face-to-face on the conflict in Belarus. The German government told CNN that "all sides have agreed" to the meeting, but Russian President Vladimir Putin hinted that a meeting might not be a done deal. An earlier meeting fell through. More than 5,000 people have died in the fighting.JUST WATCHED Cruz: U.S. should provide defensive weapons to Ukraine Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cruz: U.S. should provide defensive weapons to Ukraine 03:06GRAMMY AWARDSMusic's night: Sam Smith owned Sam Smith owned the Grammys last night. The British soul sensation snagged four awards, including best new artist, and record and song of the year for "Stay with Me." Smith was very quotable. First, understatement of the evening: "I'm having a really, really, really good night." And a tribute to a former lover who helped inspire the songs on his album "In the Lonely Hour." "Thanks so much for breaking my heart, because you got me four Grammys," he said. Beck pulled off the big upset of the night, besting Smith to win album of the year for "Morning Phase."Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Common and John Legend perform their song "Glory" to close out the 57th annual Grammy Awards on Sunday, February 8. The song, from the movie "Selma," recently won a Golden Globe for Best Original Song. Hide Caption 1 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Beyonce sings the gospel song "Take My Hand, Precious Lord." Hide Caption 2 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Chris Martin joins Beck for a performance of Beck's "Heart Is a Drum." Beck won Album of the Year and Best Rock Album for "Morning Phase." Hide Caption 3 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Actress Kristen Wiig performs while Sia sings her song "Chandelier." Hide Caption 4 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Colombian rocker Juanes performs his new song "Juntos (Together)." Hide Caption 5 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Mary J. Blige and Sam Smith perform Smith's "Stay With Me," which won the Grammys for Song of the Year and Record of the Year. Hide Caption 6 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Paul McCartney, Kanye West and Rihanna team up on Rihanna's new song "FourFiveSeconds." Hide Caption 7 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Dwight Yoakam performs with Brandy Clark on Clark's song "Hold My Hand." Hide Caption 8 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Eric Church sings "Give Me Back My Hometown." Hide Caption 9 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Usher, backed by a harp, sings Stevie Wonder's "If It's Magic." Hide Caption 10 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga sing Irving Berlin's "Cheek to Cheek," which is also the name of their collaborative album from last year. Hide Caption 11 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Katy Perry sings "By the Grace of God." Hide Caption 12 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Pharrell Williams and Hans Zimmer perform "Happy." Hide Caption 13 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Annie Lennox was on stage with Hozier for a cover of "I Put a Spell On You." Hide Caption 14 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Gwen Stefani and Adam Levine sing "My Heart Is Open." Hide Caption 15 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Ed Sheeran plays guitar with Jeff Lynne and the Electric Light Orchestra for "Mr. Blue Sky." Hide Caption 16 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Madonna had some interesting performers for her single "Living for Love." Hide Caption 17 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Kanye West went Auto-Tune for "Only One." Hide Caption 18 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Miranda Lambert performs "Little Red Wagon." Hide Caption 19 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances Ariana Grande sings "Just a Little Bit of Your Heart." Hide Caption 20 of 21 Photos: 2015 Grammys: Performances AC/DC open the show with "Rock or Bust" and "Highway to Hell." Hide Caption 21 of 21BRUCE JENNERVehicular manslaughter case: Bruce Jenner says he's cooperating with California authorities after a fatal car crash he was involved in over the weekend. He called it a "devastating tragedy." The accident took place along a tricky stretch of Pacific Coast Highway in Malibu. A Cadillac SUV Jenner was driving was the third vehicle in a multiple rear-end collision. It hit a Lexus that was spun into oncoming traffic and hit by a Hummer. The driver of the Lexus died. The Los Angeles Sheriff's Department has opened up a vehicular manslaughter investigation.JUST WATCHED 1 dead in car crash involving Bruce Jenner Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 1 dead in car crash involving Bruce Jenner 01:21EGYPT SOCCERFootball violence: Egypt Egypt suspended the country's Premier League soccer matches after clashes between police and fans left at least 19 and up to 30 people dead yesterday. The Interior Ministry blamed the violence on fans who didn't have tickets and tried to push their way in. It's the deadliest soccer-related violence in Egypt since a 2012 stampede. That incident left more than 70 people dead and 1,000 injured.JUST WATCHED Deadly violence ahead of football match in Cairo Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Deadly violence ahead of football match in Cairo 03:08Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Doggy payback: You know what they say about karma.Fiery photos: A photographer posts time-lapse of volcanic eruption in Guatemala. For a hot topic, this is pretty cool stuff.#Goatfail: Dixie the pygmy goat makes a valiant attempt to jump out of her stall, but doesn't quite get the job done.Overloaded: We're not sure which is funnier, the eventual fate of this little car or the reaction of the guys filming it.Sit down, Sir Paul: Apparently being a former member of the Beatles doesn't get your special privileges at the Grammy Awards.