(CNN) Legendary University of North Carolina head basketball coach Dean Smith -- a man who left his mark on young men both on and off the court -- died Saturday evening at the age of 83, according to the University of North Carolina's official athletics website.He had battled dementia for years, and according to a family statement provided to UNC , he "passed away peacefully" in his Chapel Hill home with his wife and five children by his side."It's a blessing in some ways," UNC coach Roy Williams, a longtime protege of Smith's, said at a news conference Sunday, "but it is also really hard."Williams called Smith "the perfect picture of what a college basketball coach should have been." The 64-year-old Williams, who played for UNC's junior varsity squad in the 1960s and attended Smith's practices during college before serving as his assistant for a decade, further said everything he does in administering the school's basketball program "is driven by my desire to make Coach Smith proud.""He set the standard for loyalty and concern for every one of his players, not just the games won or lost," Williams said in his statement . "He was the greatest there ever was on the court but far, far better off the court with people. His concern for people will be the legacy I will remember most."Former New York Gov. Mario Cuomo, whose passionate keynote address at the 1984 Democratic political convention vaulted him onto the national political scene, died on January 1. He was 82.Country music star Little Jimmy Dickens , a fixture at the Grand Ole Opry for decades, died January 2 after having a stroke on Christmas, according to the Opry's website. He was 94.Australian-born actor Rod Taylor , who starred in Alfred Hitchcock's thriller "The Birds," died on January 7 in Los Angeles. He was 84.Actor and comedian Taylor Negron died after a long battle with cancer, according to his family on January 10. He was 57.The death of punk music producer Kim Fowley was announced on January 15. He was 75. Fowley worked with a wide range of artists, including Paul Revere and the Raiders, the Modern Lovers, Blue Cheer, Kiss and Helen Reddy. But he will be likely be remembered most for helping form the Runaways.Hip-hop artist A$AP Yams , one of the founding members of A$AP Mob, died at the age of 26, the group's Facebook page said on January 18. It wasn't immediately clear how he had died.Australian writer Colleen McCullough , who wrote the best-selling novel "The Thorn Birds," died on January 29. She was 77.Basketball coach Dean Smith, who led the University of North Carolina from 1961 to 1997 and won two national championships over his illustrious career, died February 7 at the age of 83, according to the university's official athletics website.New York Times media columnist David Carr died suddenly after collapsing in the newspaper's newsroom on Thursday, February 12. He was 58.Voice-over performer Gary Owens died Friday, February 13, at the age of 80. Owens, a former radio disc jockey, was known as the voice of Space Ghost, Batman and many other characters. He gained nationwide fame in the late 1960s as the straight-laced announcer on TV's frenetic "Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In."Former U.S. poet laureate and Pulitzer Prize winner Philip Levine , whose work reflected the voice and soul of 20th-century blue-collar America, died Saturday, February 14, at his home in Fresno, California. He was 87.Actor Ben Woolf died February 23 at the age of 34. The Los Angeles Police Department confirmed that he had been hit by a car's side mirror several days earlier in Hollywood.Character actor Daniel von Bargen , seen here in the 1995 film "Lord of Illusions," was better-known for playing George Costanza's inept boss Mr. Kruger on "Seinfeld" and a hard-nosed military commander on "Malcolm in the Middle." Von Bargen died March 1 at the age of 64.Best-selling British fantasy author Terry Pratchett died at the age of 66, his website said March 12. Pratchett wrote more than 70 books, including those in his "Discworld" series. He had been diagnosed with a rare form of Alzheimer's disease in 2007.For more than two decades, bassist Mike Porcaro was a rock star with the band Toto, playing venues around the world. Porcaro died after a battle with Lou Gehrig's disease, or ALS, on March 15. He was 59.Singapore's founding father Lee Kuan Yew died on March 23, according to a statement released by the Prime Minister's office. He was 91. Lee, credited for transforming the colonial trading post into a prosperous financial center, was admitted to a hospital in February with severe pneumonia.Nobel literature laureate Gunter Grass , best known for his novel "The Tin Drum," has died, his publisher said April 13. He was 87.Actor Jonathan Crombie , who co-starred in the "Anne of Green Gables" TV movies, died April 15 at age 48. Crombie died from complications of a brain hemorrhage, "Anne of Green Gables" producer Kevin Sullivan said.R&B singer Johnny Kemp , best known for the 1988 party anthem "Just Got Paid," died April 16 in Jamaica. He is believed to have drowned at a beach in Montego Bay, the Jamaica Constabulatory Force said in a press release.Singer Ben E. King , whose classic hit "Stand by Me" became an enduring testament of love and devotion for generations of listeners, died on April 30. He was 76.Russian ballerina Maya Plisetskaya , who was considered one of the greatest ballerinas of the 20th century, died on May 2. She was 89.Former House Speaker Jim Wright died May 6 at a nursing home in Fort Worth, Texas. The Texas Democrat's congressional career spanned more than three decades. He was 92.Blues legend B.B. King , who helped bring blues from the margins to the mainstream, died May 14 in Las Vegas, according to his daughter Patty King. Two weeks earlier, it was announced that King was in home hospice care after suffering from dehydration. He was 89.Hip-hop artist Lionel Pickens, known by the stage name of Chinx , died May 17 after being shot, according to the New York Police Department. He was 31.The body of extreme-sports legend Dean Potter was found in Yosemite National Park during a helicopter search May 17, park spokesman Scott Gediman said. Friends had reported Potter and another athlete, Graham Hunt, missing, and it is believed that the pair BASE jumped from Taft Point, a scenic overhang in the park. Potter was 43, and Hunt was 29.Comedy great Anne Meara , wife of Jerry Stiller and mother of Ben Stiller, died on May 23, according to a statement from her family. She was 85.Comedian and actor Reynaldo Rey died on May 28 of complications from a stroke, according to his manager. He was 75.Actress Betsy Palmer died May 29 of natural causes at a hospice care center near her home in Danbury, Connecticut, according to her manager Brad Lemack. She was 88.Indie rapper Pumpkinhead died June 9, according to friends. He was 39. The cause of death was not made public.Academy Award-winning composer James Horner , perhaps best known for scoring "Titanic," died June 22 after the small plane he was piloting crashed in central California. He was 61.Bassist Chris Squire , founding member of British rock band Yes, died June 27 in Phoenix, his bandmates confirmed. Squire, 67, announced in May that he was sitting out the band's upcoming tour dates to undergo treatment for leukemia.Hall of Fame football player Charlie Sanders died on July 2, eight months after being diagnosed with cancer. He was 68. Sanders spent all 10 of his NFL seasons with the Detroit Lions, emerging as one of the best tight ends of his era.Egyptian actor Omar Sharif , who co-starred with Peter O'Toole in "Lawrence of Arabia," died Friday, July 10, after suffering a heart attack in Cairo, according to his agent, Steve Kenis. Sharif, who also starred in "Doctor Zhivago" and "Funny Girl," was 83.Mexican singer Joan Sebastian , a beloved performer on the airwaves and in Mexican rodeos, died July 13 at the age of 64, son Jose Manuel Figueroa told CNN en Español.Actor George Coe , an original member of "Saturday Night Live's" Not Ready for Prime Time Players who also appeared in such films as "Kramer vs. Kramer" and "The Stepford Wives," died on July 18. He was 86.Novelist E.L. Doctorow, whose books were almost always about the past but often stirred comparisons to the present, died on July 21. He was 84.British actor George Cole , who was best known in the United Kingdom for his role in the TV show "Minder," died August 5 at age 90.Rapper Sean Price , half of the group Heltah Skeltah and a member of Boot Camp Clik, died August 8, record label Duck Down Music confirmed. He was 43. The cause of his death is not currently known, a statement said.Former NFL star and longtime sportscaster Frank Gifford died August 9 at his Connecticut home, his family said. He was 84.Lifelong civil rights leader and former NAACP chairman Julian Bond died on August 15, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center. He was 75.The country's oldest known living veteran, Emma Didlake , died August 16, just one month after being honored by President Barack Obama in Washington. Didlake was 110 years old.IndyCar racer Justin Wilson died August 24 after being injured in a crash during a race in Pennsylvania. He was 37.Civil rights matriarch Amelia Boynton Robinson , second from right, died on August 26. She suffered a stroke and had been hospitalized in Montgomery, Alabama. She was in her 100s.Longtime NBA center Darryl Dawkins , perhaps best known for his emphatic slam dunks, died August 27 at the age of 58.Actor Kyle Jean-Baptiste , who made history as the first African-American to play the lead role in a Broadway production of "Les Miserables," died August 28 in New York. He was 21. Marc Thibodeau, a spokesman for the production, said Jean-Baptiste fell from a fire escape.Acclaimed author and neurologist Oliver Sacks , who wrote about his battle with cancer, died August 30, his longtime collaborator, Kate Edgar, confirmed. He was 82.Three-time NBA MVP Moses Malone died on September 13 at the age of 60. Malone was the first player in NBA history to be drafted out of high school. He played for 21 seasons and led the Philadelphia 76ers to the 1983 NBA title.Best-selling author Jackie Collins died of breast cancer on September 19, according to her publicist Melody Korenbrot. She was 77.New York Yankees legend Yogi Berra , who helped the team win 10 World Series titles, died September 22, the Yogi Berra Museum said. He was 90.Actor Al Molinaro , best known for his role as Big Al Delvecchio in the sitcom "Happy Days," died October 30 in Glendale, California, his son Michael Molinaro said. He was 96.New Orleans R&B legend Allen Toussaint died November 9 at the age of 77, his son said. Artists in nearly every major genre recorded Toussaint's songs or collaborated with him, including the Rolling Stones, the Yardbirds, Herb Alpert, Glen Campbell, Robert Palmer and Elvis Costello.Former baseball pitcher Tommy Hanson , one of the sport's top draft prospects in 2006, died November 9, the team said. He was 29. An incident report from the Coweta County Sheriff's Office stated that Hanson had suffered an overdose, but added that "the cause and manner of death is still being looked at" and that "there is no indication or suspicion of foul play."The family of actor Nathaniel Marston announced November 11 that he had died after being seriously injured in an October 30 car crash in Reno, Nevada. The 40-year-old's resume included "One Life to Live" and "As the World Turns."Film star and TV actress Marjorie Lord , who rose to fame in the Golden Age of Hollywood and on the TV show "Make Room for Daddy," died on November 28, according to daughter Anne Archer. She was 97.Actor Robert Loggia was known for film roles in "Scarface," "Jagged Edge," "Big" and "Prizzi's Honor." He died December 4 at age 85.Winning legacy ...Smith coached the Tar Heels from 1961 to 1997, tallying a record of 879-254 in those 36 seasons. The school named its basketball arena for Smith in 1986, and it's still popularly referred to as "the Dean Dome." On Sunday, fans left flowers outside the arena in his memory.He also won two national championships, in 1982 and 1993, and many of his young charges went on to become some of the greatest players in pro basketball history, including Michael Jordan , Billy Cunningham, James Worthy and Vince Carter.Echoing the sentiments of many who played under Smith, Jordan issued a statement, saying, "Other than my parents, no one had a bigger influence on my life than Coach Smith. He was more than a coach -- he was my mentor, my teacher, my second father. Coach was always there for me whenever I needed him and I loved him for it. In teaching me the game of basketball, he taught me about life."Smith is often mentioned in the same breath as former Indiana and Texas Tech coach Bobby Knight, Syracuse's Jim Boeheim and longtime rival Mike Krzyzewski of Duke University, all of whom are considered among the greatest men's college basketball coaches of all time.... both on and off the courtKrzyzewski said he was saddened by the news of Smith's passing and applauded him not only as a "magnificent teacher and tactician" but also as a compassionate mentor who believed instilling dignity in his players was as important as honing their basketball skills."We have lost a man who cannot be replaced"—Coach K on the passing of Dean Smith. Full statement here: http://t.co/pArAnvuXDD — Duke Basketball (@dukebasketball) February 8, 2015"His greatest gift was his unique ability to teach what it takes to become a good man. That was easy for him to do because he was a great man himself. All of his players benefited greatly from his basketball teaching, but even more from his ability to help mold men of integrity, honor and purpose. Those teachings, specifically, will live forever in those he touched," the coach said in a statementAs further testimony to how Smith's legacy transcended sports, the Twitter feed for Duke's basketball team also included several messages honoring the man who beat the Blue Devils 59 times.Sports Illustrated named Smith its Sportsman of the Year in 1997, and he was inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 1983. He was also one of the founding members in the inaugural class inducted into the National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame in 2006."He designed Carolina's 'Four Corners' offense, devised the foul-line huddle, created the 'fatigue signal' and implemented the 'run-and-jump' defense," according to his Hall of Fame biographyThe Emporia, Kansas-born son of two teachers was also a hoopster in his own right and, with his 1952 championship as a Kansas Jayhawk, is one of only two men to win college basketball championships as a coach and player. Knight is the other.A four-time National Coach of the Year, Smith is one of only three coaches to win the National Invitation Tournament, the NCAA Tournament and Olympic Gold. He led the U.S. men's team to victory in the 1976 Montreal games.A 'dedicated civil rights advocate'JUST WATCHED 2013: Coach Dean Smith receives Medal of Freedom Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2013: Coach Dean Smith receives Medal of Freedom 01:10In 2013, Smith joined former President Bill Clinton and entertainer Oprah Winfrey as Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients President Obama said during the ceremony , "While Coach Smith couldn't join us today due to an illness that he's facing with extraordinary courage, we also honor his courage in helping to change our country -- he recruited the first black scholarship athlete to North Carolina and helped to integrate a restaurant and a neighborhood in Chapel Hill. That's the kind of character that he represented on and off the court."On Sunday, Obama issued a statement praising Smith's basketball acumen as well as his leadership skills, saying he "reared a generation of players who went on to even better things elsewhere, including a young man named Michael Jordan -- and all of us from Chicago are thankful for that."But more importantly, Coach Smith showed us something that I've seen again and again on the court -- that basketball can tell us a lot more about who you are than a jumpshot alone ever could. He graduated more than 96 percent of his players and taught his teams to point to the teammate who passed them the ball after a basket," the statement said.Smith broke UNC's color barrier for scholarship athletes in 1967 with his recruitment of Charles Scott, a would-be two-time All-American who would help skipper the Tar Heels to consecutive NCAA Final Four appearances in 1968 and 1969.Despite averaging 22 points and seven rebounds a game throughout his college career, Scott was passed over for Atlantic Coast Conference player of the year honors. It's telling that he once told a Greensboro, North Carolina, newspaper that the snub was the one time in college "that I felt things were done in a prejudicial manner."And what concerned me more was how the media handled it. Nobody ever said anything about it, never challenged what took place. To me, that's just another form of hypocrisy," he told the News & Record.Smith left such an indelible mark on Scott's life that when Scott spoke at an awards ceremony for Smith many years later, he said, "When they introduce Coach Smith's family, why don't they mention my name? My father died when I was 12 years old, and Dean Smith is the only father I ever had."'It's just not fair'Recruiting Scott wasn't Smith's first foray into integration. In the 1950s, when Smith was an assistant coach at UNC, a pastor at an inclusive Baptist church asked Smith to dine with him and a black student at a then-popular Chapel Hill restaurant that, like most eateries in the city, had a policy of not serving African-Americans. Smith agreed, and the three were allowed to dine."We're human beings first, coaches and players second, and in the '60s we had to strike an extremely delicate balance between the two," Smith once wroteThe longtime Democrat would go on to strike that balance often, speaking out against the Vietnam War, the Iraq War, nuclear proliferation and the death penalty, among other causes."America lost not just a coaching legend, but a gentleman and a citizen," Obama said in his Sunday statement.Smith's wife, Linnea, accepted the 2013 Presidential Medal of Freedom on behalf of her husband, who had been fighting dementia for years.Sportswriter John Feinstein, who reportedly abandoned a biography on Smith because of his memory lapses, wrote a column for Smith's 83rd birthday last year , outlining how Smith refused to engage in self-pity because he'd led such a great life and knew there were people suffering more than he was.Dementia was a particularly cruel fate to befall a man who "remembered every name, every game, every play in every game. He also remembered every call that went against him and anything written or said about one of his players or friends that he thought was a slight -- real or perceived. He never asked me how my kids were. He asked how Danny and Brigid were," wrote Feinstein, who says he first noticed Smith's flagging memory in 2005.Even Krzyzewski, his longtime rival -- and some might say archrival, given the fierce history of competition between UNC and Duke -- concurred."You're talking about the person who had the sharpest mind and the most remarkable memory of anyone I've ever met. It's just not fair," Feinstein quoted Krzyzewski as saying.