(CNN) The search continues for the missing in the Taiwan plane crash. A massive data hack exposes millions. And the measles outbreak could prompt changes in CaliforniaIt's Thursday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayTRANSASIA AIRWAYS CRASHRescue workers are trying to find 11 people still missing from the TransAsia Airways plane that crashed into a river in Taiwan, amid concerns that some of them might have been swept away by currents. Fifty-eight people were aboard the flight when it veered out of control yesterday. Fifteen survived the crash, but 11 are still missing. The search continues.ISIS KILLINGTerror miscalculation: Passions are red-hot in Jordan where Passions are red-hot in Jordan where the killing of a Jordanian fighter pilot by ISIS has inflamed the nation. Jordan has already executed two al Qaeda prisoners in retaliation for his death, but the pilot's father wants more done. "I demand that this criminal organization (ISIS) ... should be annihilated." An ISIS video shows Lt. Moath al-Kasasbeh being burned alive in a cage. Analysts say the horrific images have hurt ISIS' cause even among radical Islamists who may have supported them before.JUST WATCHED Sen. Graham: Pilot's murder must be wakeup call in region Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sen. Graham: Pilot's murder must be wakeup call in region 04:58ISIS VIDEOPossible terror attack clue: There's a new ISIS video -- this time in French. It's standard ISIS stuff, but French There's a new ISIS video -- this time in French. It's standard ISIS stuff, but French officials are intrigued by a woman who appears in it. They wonder if it might be Hayat Boumeddiene, the wife of Amedy Coulibaly. He's the man who killed four hostages last month at a kosher grocery in Paris. She fled France and is believed to be in Syria.Authorities are tryng to identify the woman in the front right of this video image.DATA HACKMillions exposed: It's hard to believe that any information is safe anymore. It's hard to believe that any information is safe anymore. Hackers have stolen information on tens of millions of Anthem Inc. customers. It's a massive data breach that ranks among the largest in corporate history. The information stolen from the insurance giant includes names, birthdays, medical IDs, social security numbers, street addresses, e-mail addresses and employment information, including income data. The good news? Anthem said there's no evidence that credit card or medical information was compromised. Anthem joins Target and Neiman Marcus on a growing list of companies that have been hacked.JUST WATCHED Target and Neiman Marcus hacks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Target and Neiman Marcus hacks 03:24MEASLES OUTBREAKChanging the law: The The growing number of measles cases nationwide could prompt some changes in California, where most of the current cases got their start. Two state senators are proposing legislation that would eliminate the "personal beliefs" exemption for parents who don't want their children to be vaccinated. If passed, the state would still allow exemptions for medical reasons. There are now 99 measles cases in California.JUST WATCHED Do religious exemptions do more harm than good? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Do religious exemptions do more harm than good? 01:50Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Girls, Girls, Girls: Why is Alex Trebek reading Mötley Crüe lyrics?300 and counting: A herd of A herd of manatees took over Three Sisters Springs in Florida this week, forcing park officials to close it to human visitors. The gentile mammals congregate there because they like the warm water during the winter.More than 300 manatees swam into a Florida park, prompting closure of the area to humans: http://t.co/cr0k13PZq3 pic.twitter.com/tuWlQPxFfb — CNN (@CNN) February 4, 2015Do you want to build a snowman?: The Lincoln Children's Zoo in Nebraska comes up with some wintertime fun for their meerkats.Catch the rainbow: Navy photographer Ignacio Perez snaps a picture of the USS John C. Stennis Navy photographer Ignacio Perez snaps a picture of the USS John C. Stennis cruising through a rainbow in the middle of the Pacific. One question: Where's the pot of gold?A rainbow forms over the bow of the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS John C. Stennis.Oops: This is what happens when a high school basketball coach in Georgia misses all of the alley-oop, but gets all of the rim. Instant classic.