(CNN) Way out beyond Mars, but before you get to Jupiter, is a planet.You read that right. There's a planet between Mars and Jupiter.You may not have heard of it, but it was discovered in 1801 -- 129 years before Pluto. It originally was called a planet, then later an asteroid and now it's called a dwarf planet.Its name is Ceres (pronounced like series) and you'll likely be hearing a lot more about it in the coming weeks.Dawn's mission started at 7:34 a.m. ET on September 27, 2007, at Cape Canaveral, Florida. Dawn was launched into space on a Delta II rocket.Dawn's mission started at 7:34 a.m. ET on September 27, 2007, at Cape Canaveral, Florida. Dawn was launched into space on a Delta II rocket.Workers at Cape Canaveral prepare Dawn for launch by removing its transportation canister. Dawn was then mated with a Delta II rocket.Workers at Cape Canaveral prepare Dawn for launch by removing its transportation canister. Dawn was then mated with a Delta II rocket.Workers check on the spacecraft, at left, as they prepare to mate it with the upper stage booster rocket on the right.Workers check on the spacecraft, at left, as they prepare to mate it with the upper stage booster rocket on the right.This image compares an image of Vesta taken by Dawn as it moved in on the protoplanet with one taken by the Hubble Space Telescope. Before the Dawn mission, the Hubble image was the best available.This image compares an image of Vesta taken by Dawn as it moved in on the protoplanet with one taken by the Hubble Space Telescope. Before the Dawn mission, the Hubble image was the best available.This is Vesta's Numisia crater. It's about 19 miles (31 kilometers) in diameter.This is Vesta's Numisia crater. It's about 19 miles (31 kilometers) in diameter.As the spacecraft prepared to leave Vesta behind, scientists created this mosaic of the best views taken during Dawn's stay.As the spacecraft prepared to leave Vesta behind, scientists created this mosaic of the best views taken during Dawn's stay.On its way to Ceres, Dawn spent more than 300 days taking photos of the protoplanet Vesta. These three images show Vesta coming into view as the spacecraft approached in July 2011.On its way to Ceres, Dawn spent more than 300 days taking photos of the protoplanet Vesta. These three images show Vesta coming into view as the spacecraft approached in July 2011.Dawn took this picture on approach to Ceres on January 25. It was about 147,000 miles (237,000 kilometers) from the dwarf planet.Dawn took this picture on approach to Ceres on January 25. It was about 147,000 miles (237,000 kilometers) from the dwarf planet.These two views of Ceres were taken on February 12, when Dawn was about 52,000 miles (84,000 kilometers) from Ceres. The images were taken about 10 hours apart.These two views of Ceres were taken on February 12, when Dawn was about 52,000 miles (84,000 kilometers) from Ceres. The images were taken about 10 hours apart.This mosaic is made up of images taken by Dawn on February 19 from a distance of nearly 29,000 miles (47,000 kilometers).This mosaic is made up of images taken by Dawn on February 19 from a distance of nearly 29,000 miles (47,000 kilometers).Another puzzling feature on Ceres is a pancake-shaped basin seen in the lower right side of this image. The image was taken on February 19 from a distance of nearly 29,000 miles (47,000 kilometers). The basin is nearly 186 miles (300 kilometers) across.Another puzzling feature on Ceres is a pancake-shaped basin seen in the lower right side of this image. The image was taken on February 19 from a distance of nearly 29,000 miles (47,000 kilometers). The basin is nearly 186 miles (300 kilometers) across."Ceres has really surprised us," said Carol Raymond, Dawn's deputy principal investigator. "The first images have produced some really puzzling features." One of the puzzles: two bright white spots that showed up in photographs taken by Dawn on February 19."Ceres has really surprised us," said Carol Raymond, Dawn's deputy principal investigator. "The first images have produced some really puzzling features." One of the puzzles: two bright white spots that showed up in photographs taken by Dawn on February 19.Dawn snapped this image of Ceres on March 1, 2015 just before entering orbit on March 6. The image was taken at a distance of about 30,000 miles (about 48,000 kilometers).Dawn snapped this image of Ceres on March 1, 2015 just before entering orbit on March 6. The image was taken at a distance of about 30,000 miles (about 48,000 kilometers).Dawn gave scientists a big surprise: Ceres has a group of bright spots glowing inside a large crater. The above image is part of a sequence taken by Dawn on May 16, 2015 when the spacecraft was 4,500 miles (7,200 kilometers) away from Ceres. It's the closest view yet of the spots. But what are they? According to the mission's principal investigator, Christopher Russell, scientists have concluded the spots are "due to the reflection of sunlight by highly reflective material on the surface, possibly ice."Dawn gave scientists a big surprise: Ceres has a group of bright spots glowing inside a large crater. The above image is part of a sequence taken by Dawn on May 16, 2015 when the spacecraft was 4,500 miles (7,200 kilometers) away from Ceres. It's the closest view yet of the spots. But what are they? According to the mission's principal investigator, Christopher Russell, scientists have concluded the spots are "due to the reflection of sunlight by highly reflective material on the surface, possibly ice."NASA's Dawn probe captured this image of a 3-mile-tall pyramid-shaped structure rising from a plain on the surface of the dwarf planet Ceres. The discovery has further fueled speculation about just what mysteries Ceres may hold. The image was taken on June 6, 2015.This tall, conical mountain on Ceres was photographed from a distance of 915 miles (1,473 kilometers) by NASA's Dawn spacecraft. The mountain, located in the dwarf planet's southern hemisphere, is 4 miles (6.4 kilometers) high. The photo was taken on August 19, 2015.You get a close-up view of the southern part of Ceres in this image taken on December 10, 2015. You can see craters, troughs and grooves. The spacecraft took these images while it was about 240 miles (385 kilometers) above Ceres, its lowest ever orbit. Dawn will remain at this altitude for the rest of its mission.You get a close-up view of the southern part of Ceres in this image taken on December 10, 2015. You can see craters, troughs and grooves. The spacecraft took these images while it was about 240 miles (385 kilometers) above Ceres, its lowest ever orbit. Dawn will remain at this altitude for the rest of its mission.Ceres has more than 130 bright spots , according to NASA. This false color image shows one of spots -- this one in a crater called Occator. Scientists say the substance appears to be a type of magnesium sulfate called hexahydrite. Scientists use false color to help study differences in surface materials, NASA says.You can see part of Ceres' southern hemisphere in this image taken on October 18, 2015. The big crater in the middle of the picture is called Hamori after a Japanese god and protector of tree leaves. The crater is 37 miles (60 kilometers) in diameter. Dawn was 915 miles (1,470 kilometers) above Ceres when the photo was taken.You can see part of Ceres' southern hemisphere in this image taken on October 18, 2015. The big crater in the middle of the picture is called Hamori after a Japanese god and protector of tree leaves. The crater is 37 miles (60 kilometers) in diameter. Dawn was 915 miles (1,470 kilometers) above Ceres when the photo was taken.Ceres has several craters and linear troughs. In this image taken by NASA's Dawn spacecraft on October 14, 2015, the large crater Lono can be seen near the top right of the photo. The crater below it is called Besua.Ceres has several craters and linear troughs. In this image taken by NASA's Dawn spacecraft on October 14, 2015, the large crater Lono can be seen near the top right of the photo. The crater below it is called Besua.But Ceres is the first of these worlds to get a visitor from Earth: NASA's Dawn spacecraft is arriving on March 6.JUST WATCHED Hundreds more worlds in our solar system? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hundreds more worlds in our solar system? 01:27Ceres may be considered a dwarf planet, but it's "the giant of the main asteroid belt," Dr. Marc Rayman, chief engineer and mission director of the Dawn mission , told CNN. "It is not only the largest object between Mars and Jupiter, it is the largest object between the sun and Pluto that a spacecraft has not yet visited.""We are tremendously excited," Rayman said. "We have guided this robotic probe for well over seven years on an interplanetary journey of more than 3 billion miles. Along the way we sailed past Mars. We spent 14 months orbiting and scrutinizing the giant protoplanet Vesta . ... Now, finally, we are on the verge of conducting the first exploration ever of the first dwarf planet."Images taken on February 19 when Dawn was about 29,000 miles (46,000 kilometers) from Ceres show a bright spot on Ceres and a dimmer companion amid the small world's cratered surface. NASA says both spots appear to be in the same basin. The images are puzzling to scientists and they say they'll have to wait until Dawn gets even closer to sort out the cause."We we will have to wait for better resolution before we can make such geologic interpretations," said Chris Russell, principal investigator for the Dawn mission, based at the University of California, Los Angeles.Rayman said Ceres' surface is pretty beaten up and that its craters are "scars from life in the rough and tumble asteroid belt."Why study a beaten-up space rock? Rayman said because it's a survivor -- and a mysterious one. Made up of rock and ice, Ceres may even have liquid water deep beneath its surface -- "perhaps as ponds or lakes or even oceans," Rayman said.Facts about Ceres Discovered in 1801 by Giuseppe PiazziNamed for Roman goddess of agricultureThe word 'cereal' comes from CeresDiameter is about 590 miles (950 km)First object discovered in asteroid beltHe said Ceres "appears to have been in the process of growing to become a full-sized planet when Jupiter terminated its growth nearly 4.6 billion years ago."So by studying Ceres, scientists learn more about how the rest of the solar system formed. And he said, we should study Ceres because it's there -- and we need to understand the universe we live in. "We should study it because we hunger for knowledge and understanding. Grand undertakings like this nurture our spirit," Rayman said.Rayman said that if you had learned about the solar system 200 years ago, "you would have learned that Ceres was a planet, just as people who learned about the solar system in more recent generations learned that Pluto is."Speaking of Pluto, the most famous of the dwarf planets gets its own visitor in July. The New Horizons spacecraft is closing in for a flyby of Pluto and its moons.This talk of planets and dwarf planets is still a little confusing, so here's the most recent tally: NASA currently recognizes eight planets: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune, and the five named dwarf planets we listed earlier.But a sixth possible dwarf planet already is on NASA's watch list.Called 2012 VP113, it's believed to be one of the most distant objects in our solar system. On its Solar System Exploration website, NASA says the object was nicknamed "Biden" after Vice President Joseph Biden because of the VP in its initial designation. It will be up to the IAU to decide whether i2012 VP113 is a dwarf planet and whether it gets an official name.So Ceres, and its cousins, may soon outnumber the traditional planets you learned about in grade school.