(CNN) Americans are unhappy with Obama's handling of ISIS. Winter storm hammers East Coast and the South. And Lance Armstrong owes $10 million in Tour de France bonuses.It's Tuesday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DayISIS POLLAmericans are increasingly unhappy with the President's handling of ISIS, and a growing share of the nation believes that fight is going badly, a new CNN/ORC survey says . The CNN/ORC poll found 57% of Americans disapprove of how Barack Obama is handling the threat posed by ISIS, a significant decline in support for the President over the past few months. In late September, that number was 49%. A full 58% of Americans feel U.S. military action against ISIS is going badly.DENMARK SHOOTINGTerror case: The The Denmark shooting suspect swore allegiance to the leader of ISIS in a post to, what's believed to be, his Facebook page. It was made just before the deadly shooting spree began. A senior member of the Danish government identified the gunman as Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein. But police have not formally named the suspect, who opened fire at a free speech forum on Saturday before shooting several people outside a synagogue and then firing at police. Police killed him in the shootout.JUST WATCHED Artist wanted by al Qaeda: There is no way out Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Artist wanted by al Qaeda: There is no way out 03:39WINTER WEATHERCaught in the storm: Parts of the East Coast and the South are getting an ugly mix of ice and snow. The heaviest snow will hit from Kentucky to southern New Jersey where 6-12 inches are possible. To the South, ice is the main threat from Tennessee through North Carolina. Bitter cold is the rule in New England, where overnight lows plunged into single digits and below zero.JUST WATCHED See dogs race through feet-high snow Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See dogs race through feet-high snow 02:12LANCE ARMSTRONGBackpedaling: A Texas arbitration panel says A Texas arbitration panel says Lance Armstrong needs to cough up $10 million to SCA Promotions for Tour de France bonuses the company paid the disgraced cyclist. This case has been going on for more than a decade. Initially, SCA refused to pay Armstrong the bonuses alleging performance-enhancing drug use. Armstrong sued and they paid. When Armstrong later admitted to drug use, SCA counter sued, winning the panel vote 2-1. A judge must now give final approval.Graffiti skewers Lance Armstrong for performance-enhancing drug useTRAIN DERAILMENTBall of fire: A train transporting crude oil blew up in West Virginia yesterday afternoon, sending thick, black smoke into the sky. Oil from the train spilled into the Kanawha River, a source of drinking water in Kanawha and Fayette counties. A state of emergency has been declared and residents in the area are being asked to conserve water. Folks in the immediate area were asked to evacuate.JUST WATCHED Train derailment causes massive explosion Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Train derailment causes massive explosion 01:24Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Thundersnow: You have to give You have to give Weather Channel meteorologist Jim Cantore credit . He sure loves his job. Watch him hop and skip when he gets to witness a rare occurrence of thundersnow.