Story highlights Residents, off-duty firefighter tell of flames near homes and ranger stationWayne Allen Huntsman, 37, is accused of one felony count of arsonThe King Fire is costing $5 million a day to fight, official saysGov. Brown declares a state of emergency in El Dorado and Siskiyou countiesAs 10 wildfires raged across California, authorities accused one man Thursday of having deliberately set one of the larger fires that was burning nearly uncontrollably over 111 square miles, officials said.Wayne Allen Huntsman, 37, faces one felony count of arson with a special allegation of a firefighter, peace officer or other emergency personnel having suffered great bodily injury in the so-called King Fire in northern California, according to the criminal complaint.Huntsman is being held on $10 million bail in El Dorado County Jail, said Sheriff John D'Agostini.The King Fire in Eldorado National Forest east of Sacramento exploded over a 24-hour period and nearly quadrupled to 73,184 acres Thursday from 18,544 acres a day earlier, authorities said. Evacuations were in effect for 2,819 people as the fire was only 10% contained, officials said. More than 12,000 residences are being threatened by the fire.Photos: Wildfires in California Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighter hoses down hot spots during a controlled burn to fight the King Fire near Placerville, California, on Monday, September 22. The King Fire is one of 10 wildfires raging across California. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighter walks along the containment line during a controlled burn near Placerville on September 22. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A sign stands half-burned by the King Fire in White Meadows, California, on Saturday, September 20. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A U.S. Forest Service firefighter pours water on burning embers while clearing hot spots of the King Fire near Georgetown, California, on Thursday, September 18. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – Firefighters use a drip torch to burn away excess dry brush during controlled fire operations near Pollock Pines, California, on September 18. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighter waters down a tree as flames approach a containment line near Fresh Pond, California, on September 18. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighter walks through smoke in Fresh Pond on Wednesday, September 17. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighting helicopter collects water from a reservoir in Pollock Pines on September 17. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighter is shrouded in smoke near Fresh Pond on September 17. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – Firefighters monitor a backfire as they battle the King Fire in Fresh Pond on September 17. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A firefighter monitors a backfire in Fresh Pond on September 17. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A grove of trees sits burned in Weed, California, on Tuesday, September 16. The Boles Fire tore into Weed, razing libraries, fitness centers and entire neighborhood blocks, according to CNN affiliate KDRV. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – Shelley Besk, right, embraces her mother, Kathy, as they stand in the ruins of their Weed home on September 16. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – Firefighters inspect the interior of the Roseburg lumber mill in Weed on September 16. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – The shell of a library in Weed smolders on September 16. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A resident of Weed carries belongings as he walks by burned-out homes on September 16. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – Firefighters hose down a hot spot September 16 in the rubble of a Weed home. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – Destroyed vehicles and homes smolder in Weed on Monday, September 15. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – A wildfire approaches the shore of California's Bass Lake on Sunday, September 14. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Wildfires in California Wildfires in California – An airplane drops fire retardant over a fire at Bass Lake on September 14. Hide Caption 20 of 20JUST WATCHED King wildfire arson suspect in court Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH King wildfire arson suspect in court 01:14JUST WATCHED California wildfire apparently arson Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH California wildfire apparently arson 02:39Residents reported gargantuan flames."Anytime the wind could change. It's very unnerving to see this huge thing above where your home is, and so we are just down here to keep a close eye on things," Tara Rosas of the Pollock Pines community told CNN affiliate KCRA.Flames approach rangersThe fire even threatened a forest-ranger station near Pollock Pines, prompting rangers to turn their attention to defending their own quarters, said one off-duty firefighter who spoke with the foresters.The smoke lay so thick in the Sierra Nevada mountains that visibility was reduced to 200 feets, said Mike Forster of Oakland, an off-duty firefighter who was doing freelance photography."There is nothing but fuel and wilderness in front of it," Forster said of the fire."If you look at it on a map, it's heading toward Lake Tahoe, which could stop it, but there's nothing but fuel before it gets there," said Forster, who posted photos of the fire on his CNN iReport page.Lake Tahoe is about 50 miles away from the area to which Forster was referring.$5 million a dayIn all, 6,600 firefighters were battling the state's 10 wildfires, and 150 arson investigators also were working, said Cal Fire Director Ken Pimlott.Fueling the fires is California's ongoing historic drought. On Thursday, Gov. Jerry Brown declared a state emergency in El Dorado and Siskiyou counties, where the King Fire and another wildfire burned wide swaths of land and destroyed homes.Wayne Allen HuntsmanJUST WATCHED Wildfire torches California town Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wildfire torches California town 02:02The King Fire was proving costly to fight, officials said. Exacerbating conditions were steep terrain, changing winds and the fire's speed, which made a run of more than 10 miles between Wednesday afternoon and Thursday's dawn."We are continuing to spend $5 million a day, and there is no estimate for containment for this fire," said Laurence Crabtree, Eldorado National Forest supervisor."This thing is just out of control at this point," said CNN international meteorologist Ivan Cabrera.The Boles FireFarther north, in Siskiyou County, near the border with Oregon, a smaller fire has already caused severe damage to property.The Boles Fire burned through Weed, CaliforniaWeed, California, smolders in the aftermath of the Boles FireThe Boles Fire tore into the town of Weed this week, razing libraries, businesses and entire neighborhood blocks, according to CNN affiliate KDRVThe governor cited the damage by the Boles Fire in his emergency proclamation for the two counties.The blaze has destroyed at least 150 structures, according to Cal Fire, and crews are still assessing the scale of the damage. About 1,000 homes remain threatened, officials said.Images from the scene showed charred vehicles and patches of rubble where houses once stood.'Devastating loss'That fire, which covers 375 acres, is now 65% contained, but evacuation orders remain in effect for some areas, Cal Fire said.Authorities say they want to allow people to return to their properties as soon as they can, but only when it's safe to do so."At some point we're going to have to remove this debris," local fire official Koby Johns told KDRV. "And before that, we need to, one, make sure there's nobody here. And two, make sure there's nothing that's going to fall and injure a firefighter."Announcing a state of emergency in El Dorado and Siskiyou, California Gov. Jerry Brown said, "The wildfires in Northern California serve as a reminder that dry conditions can be the precursor to devastating loss."Authorities have said California's ongoing historic drought has helped fuel fires that have plagued areas across the state.The causes of the King and Boles fires are still under investigation.Here's a summary of other wildfires, as of Friday:-- The Happy Camp Complex in Siskiyou County's Klamath National Forest burned 130,139 acres and was 72% contained.-- The July Complex fire in Siskiyou County's Klamath National Forest and surrounding area charred 50,042 acres and was 98% contained.-- The Meadow Fire in Mariposa County's Yosemite National Park devastated 4,772 acres and was 90% contained.Helicopter over King Fire-- The Boles Fire in Siskiyou County's city of Weed burned 479 acres and was 95% contained.-- The Courtney Fire in Madera County burned 320 acres and was 90% contained, with 56 structures damaged or destroyed.-- The Irene Fire in Alpine County's El Dorado National Forest and Mokelumne Wilderness area burned 94 acres and was 45% contained.King Fire-- The June Fire in Mono County's Inyo National Forest scorched 65 acres and was 65% contained.-- The Silverado Fire in Orange County's Cleveland National Forest and Silverado Canyon area burned 968 acres and was 98% contained.