Story highlights Man who jumped White House fence carried a folding knife, complaint saysOn Saturday, second security incident happenedAuthorities said a driver failed to stop at an entrance to the White House complexA New York Times report says he tried to gain entrance beforeOne man was carrying a weapon; the other had reportedly attempted to slip by security before. New details have emerged about two recent security incidents at the White House.The man who jumped a fence at the White House late Friday and made it through the North Portico doors was carrying a folding knife in his pants pocket, according to a Secret Service affidavit filed Saturday.Initially, officers believed Omar Gonzalez, 42, of Copperas Cove, Texas, to be unarmed.And a man who failed to stop his car at a White House complex entrance on Saturday, after officers asked he do so, had tried to gain entrance a short time before on foot, the New York Times reported , citing Secret Service spokesman Ed Donovan.The jumperJUST WATCHED Video shows White House fence jumper Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video shows White House fence jumper 03:00Gonzalez is accused of unlawfully entering a restricted building or grounds while carrying a deadly or dangerous weapon, officials said.The knife he carried in his pants pocket was a Spyderco VG-10 folding knife with a three-and-a-half inch serrated blade, according to an affidavit. On Friday, the Secret Service had said the fence jumper appeared to be unarmed.Gonzalez told a Secret Service agent "that he was concerned that the atmosphere was collapsing and needed to get the information to the President of the United States so that he could get the word out to the people," the affidavit read.The Washington Post reported that Gonzalez's attorney said that his client was an Iraq War veteran, who served three tours there.No guard dogs were released to chase him, which is normally standard procedure, the Post reported.A Secret Service officer said he yelled at the intruder to stop. Gonzalez was apprehended just after making it inside the doors, according to the affidavit. The first family was not at the White House at the time, but other people were.President Obama had left just four minutes earlier with his daughters via helicopter from the South Lawn to visit Camp David.Gonzalez, who was in custody Saturday evening, is scheduled to appear before a U.S. magistrate on Monday. The charge is punishable by up to 10 years in prison.Barging vehicleJUST WATCHED Second security incident at White House Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Second security incident at White House 02:02The man behind the wheel of the vehicle that did not stop was identified as Kevin Carr of Shamong, New Jersey. He was arrested and charged with unlawful entry, Secret Service spokesman Brian Leary said. Carr is either 18 or 19 years old.The incident happened at the entrance at 15th and E Streets, where the driver did not stop when the Secret Service ordered him to do so, Leary said.The man's car did not hit the barriers at the entrance, and he then exited the vehicle, Leary said.Carr was arrested after he refused to leave, Leary said.The Secret Service said it would interview personnel and review policies and security procedures following the fence-jumping incident.The agency said its director, Julia Pierson, ordered additional patrol officers around the White House complex. This happened before Saturday's security incident."The Secret Service is in the process of conducting a thorough review of the event on Friday evening," White House spokesman Frank Benenati said. "And we are certain it will be done with the same professionalism and commitment to duty that we and the American people expect (from) USSS."