U.S. airstrikes target the ISIS pocketbook. A suspect is in custody in the disappearance of a University of Virginia student. And Apple phones crash after the latest software update.It's Thursday, and here are the "5 things to know for your New Day."SYRIASlick business:U.S. and coalition warplanes are going for the pocketbook as they attack ISIS positions in Iraq and Syria. Some of the latest airstrikes targeted what the Pentagon said were mobile oil refineries being used by the so-called Islamic State terror group to help finance its operations. ISIS reportedly makes up to $2 million a day from oil produced by the mobile refineries.HANNAH GRAHAM CASE ARRESTCaptured:The suspect in the disappearance of University of Virginia student Hannah Graham is in custody. Texas authorities found him camping along a beach in Galveston County, the sheriff's office said. The extradition process to return Jesse Matthew to Virginia has already begun, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo told reporters yesterday. Matthew was wanted on suspicion of abduction with the intent to defile in the disappearance of Graham this month. Authorities say they don't know where she is.ESPN SUSPENSIONOn the bench:ESPN has suspended Bill Simmons for three weeks after he went on a profanity-laced rant about Roger Goodell. During his podcast, he called the NFL commissioner "a liar" and took issue with the National Football League's handling of the Ray Rice case. Simmons even called out his bosses, daring ESPN to censure him for his colorful Goodell spiel. Hey, be careful what you wish for.IOS #FAILCore problem:Apple's first update to its recently released iPhone software didn't go so well. It withdrew the new update yesterday after widely reported issues that left some unable to use their phones. Now what? Some users posted on Apple's online support message boards that their phones were working again after completely resetting them using Apple's iTunes software.TONY STEWARTNo indictment:Tony Stewart won't face charges in the death of sprint car driver Kevin Ward Jr., a New York district attorney said yesterday. Stewart's right rear tire hit Ward while he was walking on the track during an August 9 race in Canandaigua, New York. A lap earlier, Stewart appeared to cut off Ward, forcing him into a wall and knocking him out of the race. Ward, 20, died of massive blunt trauma before paramedics could get him to a hospital. Ward's family said it might pursue other legal options.