Story highlights "I want some white cheerleaders" and music familiar to whites, Levenson wroteHe also said "white fans might be afraid of our black fans," owner acknowledgesNBA chief calls e-mail "entirely unacceptable," commends Levenson self-reportingFor Atlanta Hawks controlling owner Bruce Levenson, "a light bulb went off."In a 2012 e-mail addressing the troubles the franchise faced in attracting more affluent white season-ticket holders, Levenson said he had taken a look around Philips Arena and noticed a few things.First, the audience was 70% black, he wrote. But that wasn't all. The stadium's bars were 90% black. There were few fathers and sons at the games. The cheerleaders were black. The music played in the arena was hip-hop, and the after-game concerts were either rap or gospel acts."Then i start looking around at other arenas. It is completely different. Even (Washington) DC with its affluent black community never has more than 15 pct black audience," he wrote.Now, he's losing his franchise because of the e-mail.Levenson, who serves as managing partner and is the team's representative on the NBA Board of Governors, announced in a statement Sunday that he will sell his controlling stake in the team after an "e-mail two years ago that was inappropriate and offensive."Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – His 4,256 hits were not enough to keep Pete Rose from agreeing to expulsion from Major League Baseball for life after evidence surfaced showing Rose bet not only on baseball games but also on the Reds team he managed. Although Rose could apply for reinstatement after 1989, the ban's first year, he is still in exile 25 years later. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Lance Armstrong's seven yellow jerseys seemed indicative of a solid gold reputation, but the Tour De France Champion and Olympic bronze medalist's image was forever tarnished in 2012 when the International Cycling Union banned him from competition thanks to evidence of career-long doping. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – The first female figure skater to complete a triple axel in competition, Tonya Harding scored a lifetime ban in 1994 from U.S. Figure Skating after her ex-husband attacked rival skater, Nancy Kerrigan. The U.S. Federation concluded Harding knew about the attack beforehand and engaged in "unethical behavior." Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – For a fee of $20,000 each, Joe Jackson and seven of his teammates threw the 1919 World Series. Jackson received only $5,000 of the promised sum but earned a lifetime suspension from Major League Baseball's first commissioner in 1921 for his role in rigging the championship. "Shoeless" Joe's name remains on baseball's ineligible list despite lingering speculation that he did not participate in the fix. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Words matter. That's what Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling found out in 2014 after a race-fueled conversation cost him the right to have any connection to the NBA or its basketball teams. Although banned, Sterling has sued to maintain ownership of the Clippers. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Ben Johnson won the gold medal in the men's 100 meter final at the 1988 Summer Olympics but was stripped of the win after testing positive for a banned substance. In 1993, the one-time "world's fastest man" was stopped cold by a lifetime suspension from track and field competition after failing another drug test. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Two-time Super Bowl champion, Dexter Manley's fans know him as the "Secretary of Defense." Over his cocaine-laced professional football career, he tallied 97.5 quarterback sacks but could not defend himself against four failed drug tests in four years, causing the NFL to sever ties with Manley for good in 1991. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Larger-than-life Yankees owner George Steinbrenner was no stranger to suspensions. After serving a 15-month banishment in 1974, he was called out for life in 1990 for "associating with a gambler" whom he payed $40,000 for potentially damaging personal information about one of his players. Baseball commuted Steinbrenner's punishment two years later, and he returned to his role as "the most hated man in baseball." Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – In 1963, the NFL suffered a double black eye with the banishment of two of football's biggest stars for betting on their respective teams. The culprits, Packers stalwart Paul Hornung, left, and Detroit standout Alex Karras, admitted their transgressions and accepted the punishment, causing Commissioner Pete Rozelle to extend grace and reinstate them after only a year in exile. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Chicago Cubs hurler Ferguson Jenkins won 20 games in six consecutive seasons. Yet, in 1980 it was Major League Baseball who shutout Jenkins, making him the first ballplayer to receive a lifetime suspension for a drug offense after he was arrested for cocaine possession. Jenkins secured reinstatement that same year through arbitration and ultimately scored another first when he became the first Canadian-born member of baseball's Hall of Fame. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – What happens when a pair of baseball's greatest retirees and Hall of Fame members takes on public relations work for casinos? You ban them for life, of course. At least that's what happened to Willie Mays, left, and Mickey Mantle in 1983. The duo's work consisted mainly of playing golf with high rollers. Good sense prevailed and baseball lifted the ban in 1985. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Since Marge Schott's death in 2004, no female has owned a Major League Baseball team. Yet, Schott's inglorious memory lives on thanks to documented racist remarks and an unwritten policy prohibiting the employment of African-Americans within the Reds organization. In 1993, the league banned Schott for a year because of her bigoted opinions. She would return, bringing her insensitive gaffes with her. In 1998, with another suspension in the works, Schott relinquished her controlling interest in the ball club. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Art Schlichter is serving a 10-year federal prison sentence related to fraud and cocaine use while on probation. This once-promising NFL quarterback was on the receiving end of an indefinite suspension for violating the league's ban on all forms of betting. Ultimately reinstated, Schlichter was cut loose a second time for gambling during his suspension. He would not take another snap in the NFL. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: Banned for life: Athletes and owners Banned for life: Athletes and owners – Alex Groza led the 1948 U.S. basketball team to an Olympic gold medal, won back-to-back NCAA titles at the University of Kentucky and became a first round NBA selection. Implication in a point-shaving scandal during his college days brought the final buzzer to Groza's NBA career via banishment in 1951. Hide Caption 14 of 14JUST WATCHED Owner: I can't be partners with Sterling Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Owner: I can't be partners with Sterling 02:05JUST WATCHED Judge: Clippers sale can go foward Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Judge: Clippers sale can go foward 01:21JUST WATCHED Shelly Sterling reacts to Clippers' sale Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shelly Sterling reacts to Clippers' sale 02:04A man answering the phone at his Maryland home told CNN that Levenson was not taking any phone calls.In focusing on low attendance at Hawks games and the need to boost season-ticket sales and corporate sponsors, Levenson said in his statement, he had spoken with executives about diversifying the fan base and including more suburban whites. During those discussions, "I shared my thoughts on why our efforts to bridge Atlanta's racial sports divide seemed to be failing," he wrote."I trivialized our fans by making cliched assumptions about their interests (i.e. hip hop vs. country, white vs. black cheerleaders, etc.) and by stereotyping their perceptions of one another (i.e. that white fans might be afraid of our black fans)," he said in his statement. "By focusing on race, I also sent the unintentional and hurtful message that our white fans are more valuable than our black fans."'The black crowd scared away the whites'In his 2012 e-mail to Hawks general manager Danny Ferry, Levenson wrote that before his Atlanta Spirit bought the Hawks in 2003, thousands of tickets were being given away, mostly to the black community, in an effort to make the arena appear less empty.It was a trend that continued for a couple of years after the Atlanta Spirit Group took over, he wrote in a seemingly informal e-mail rife with punctuation errors and misspellings."My theory is that the black crowd scared away the whites and there are simply not enough affluent black fans to build a signficant season ticket base," he wrote. "i never felt uncomfortable, but i think southern whites simply were not comfortable being in an arena or at a bar where they were in the minority."Levenson derided claims on fan websites that the arena is unsafe or in a bad part of town as "racist garbage," but then suggested an array of changes inside the stadium, all based on race."I have been open with our executive team about these concerns. I have told them I want some white cheerleaders and while i don't care what the color of the artist is, i want the music to be music familiar to a 40 year old white guy if that's our season tixs demo," he wrote.He continued, "i have also balked when every fan picked out of crowd to shoot shots in some time out contest is black. I have even bitched that the kiss cam is too black."Things had changed since Levenson implemented these suggestions, he wrote, boasting that the crowd was closer to 40% black by 2012, by his admittedly unscientific estimate. That was still four to five times higher than other NBA franchises, he wrote, "and my further guess is that 40 pct still feels like 70 (percent) to some whites at our games. Our bars are still overwhelmingly black."While noting this was a sensitive issue, Levenson went on to declare it "far and way the number one reason our season ticket base is so low. And many of our black fans don't have the spendable income which explains why our (food and beverage) and merchandise sales are so low. At all white thrasher games sales were nearly triple what they are at hawks games."The year before Levenson wrote the controversial email, the Atlanta Spirit Group sold its NHL team, the Atlanta Thrashers, to a Canadian ownership group that moved the team north of the border. It's now called the Winnipeg Jets.Comparisons to Donald SterlingIn his Sunday statement, Levenson said the NBA should have no tolerance for racism, a sentiment he also expressed during a CNN interview earlier this year when he talked about Donald Sterling, the Los Angeles Clippers owner who was caught making racist remarks on tape.Discussing Sterling's reluctance to sell the team after the scandal broke, Levenson said in May that, as a fellow team owner, he couldn't be partners with someone who holds those types of views."I think I speak for all of my partners when I say we were all deeply offended. We all quickly spoke out against the words we heard on that tape," Levenson said.NBA Commissioner Adam Silver, who brought the hammer down on Sterling, called Levenson's 2012 email "entirely unacceptable" and commended Levenson for self-reporting to the league office.Levenson told the league in July about the August 2012 e-mail, and the NBA conducted an investigation, the statement said."(Levenson) shared with me how truly remorseful he is for using those hurtful words and how apologetic he is to the entire NBA family -- fans, players, team employees, business partners and fellow team owners -- for having diverted attention away from our game," Silver said.The league will work with the Hawks to determine the appropriate sale process for the team, Silver said. Hawks CEO Steve Koonin will oversee team operations, the league said.In closing his statement, Levenson said he was embarrassed by the email and apologized to the team and its fans."To the Hawks family and its fans, you have my deepest gratitude for the past ten years," Levenson wrote. "Working with this team and its extraordinary executives, coaching staff, and players has been one of the highlights of my life. I am proud of our diverse, passionate, and growing legion of Hawks fans, and I will continue to join you in cheering for the best team in the NBA."According to the Hawks website, Levenson, a former journalist, co-founded United Communications Group, a portfolio of business information companies, and is a founding shareholder and former board member for TechTarget, a technology media company.