(CNN) Ezra Dolezal would love to see his sister, Rachel, take a DNA test to prove whose version of the truth about her racial identity is the right one.But he doesn't think she will.And she didn't back down when it comes how she sees herself, even after her parents shared childhood photos of a young Rachel Dolezal -- her pale complexion and straight blond hair in contrast to the woman with darker skin and dark curly hair who appeared on NBC."My life has been one of survival," Dolezal told Lauer. "And the decisions that I have made along the way have been to survive and to carry forward in my journey and life continuum.""My life has been one of survival," Dolezal told Lauer. "And the decisions that I have made along the way have been to survive and to carry forward in my journey and life continuum."Matt Lauer interviews Dolezal on the "Today" show on Tuesday, June 16. Dolezal revealed that she started identifying as black around age 5, when she would draw self-portraits with a brown crayon. She told Lauer she "takes exception" to the contention that she tried to deceive people.Dolezal poses for a picture with prosecutor Marilyn Mosby. Dolezal's mother said on Friday, June 12, that her daughter "has not explained to us why she is doing what she's doing and being dishonest and deceptive with her identity."Dolezal poses for a picture with prosecutor Marilyn Mosby. Dolezal's mother said on Friday, June 12, that her daughter "has not explained to us why she is doing what she's doing and being dishonest and deceptive with her identity."Another family photo shows Dolezal as a teenager. Her mother told the Spokane Spokesman-Review that after she and her husband adopted four African-American children, Dolezal began to "disguise herself." Dolezal brushed off the controversy surrounding her racial identity as part of a family fight over alleged abuse, the Spokesman-Review reported.A family photo shows Dolezal's family at her wedding reception in Jackson, Mississippi, on May 21, 2000. Her family is racially mixed; four of her adopted siblings are black. She and her husband, Kevin, are standing between her parents. Her grandparents are at right and her adopted siblings are in the front row.A family photo shows Dolezal's family at her wedding reception in Jackson, Mississippi, on May 21, 2000. Her family is racially mixed; four of her adopted siblings are black. She and her husband, Kevin, are standing between her parents. Her grandparents are at right and her adopted siblings are in the front row.Dolezal's birth certificate shows that she was born to Lawrence Dolezal and Ruthanne Schertel. Her public racial identity came under scrutiny on Thursday, June 11, in an interview with a reporter from CNN affiliate KXLYRachel Dolezal, 37, was the head of the local chapter of the NAACP and has identified herself as African-American. But her Montana birth certificate says she was born to two people who say they are Caucasian. She is seen as a teenager at left in an old family photo and in a more recent picture from Eastern Washington University, where she teaches classes related to African-American culture.Rachel Dolezal, 37, was the head of the local chapter of the NAACP and has identified herself as African-American. But her Montana birth certificate says she was born to two people who say they are Caucasian. She is seen as a teenager at left in an old family photo and in a more recent picture from Eastern Washington University, where she teaches classes related to African-American culture.For the family, one comment stung especially hard. "I haven't had a DNA test," Dolezal said. "There's been no biological proof that Larry and Ruthanne are my biological parents."Larry and Ruthanne are the Montana couple who helped drive this story, telling reporters that Rachel is their estranged daughter. Ezra Dolezal is himself biracial and one of four children adopted by the Dolezals -- unlike Rachel, his older sister by 15 years, he says."I guarantee that she is not going to take a DNA test to prove that (Larry and Ruthanne Dolezal) are not her parents," Ezra Dolezal told CNN's "New Day" on Wednesday. "Because they are, and she doesn't want to be caught going back on her story again."Self-portraits in brown crayonOver the years, several reports have come out identifying Rachel Dolezal as transracial, multiracial or black. She hasn't corrected them -- in part because, it seems, she feels connected with the African-American experience, a link she claims began as early as age 5, when she drew self-portraits in brown instead of peach crayon and with black, curly hair.This self-assessment, though, has bothered some -- including African-Americans who feel that Dolezal advanced as an activist by misrepresenting herself and by claiming personal injustices that weren't legitimate coming from a woman who could decide any day to present herself as white again.She has had her defenders, too, with some pointing to the good she's done as an activist and saying she shouldn't be faulted for her tight bond with the black community.JUST WATCHED Brother: Dolezal didn't identify as black until 2011 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Brother: Dolezal didn't identify as black until 2011 03:08'She's too nervous' to admit the truth, brother saysFor all the Internet outrage, though, the ones most directly affected by all this are the Dolezals. And they couldn't be further apart.It has been years since Rachel Dolezal talked with her parents. They've been on opposing sides of one custody battle, which ended with Rachel taking in one of Larry and Ruthanne's four adopted children as her own. And Rachel, who attended historically black Howard University and until very recently had taught classes on African-American culture at Eastern Washington University, has claimed she felt her connection with the black experience was stifled when she was growing up.JUST WATCHED Is the black culture up for grabs? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is the black culture up for grabs? 02:43"I felt very isolated with my identity virtually my entire life, that nobody really got it and that I really didn't have the personal agency to express it," she told NBC. "I kind of imagined that maybe at some point (I'd have to) own it publicly and discuss this kind of complexity."Yet her parents have challenged her assertions, including that she identified with African-Americans as a youngster or was held back in any way. They've challenged her integrity and even questioned her mental state.Ezra Dolezal backed his adopted parents Wednesday, while ripping what he called a web of lies -- a web that, he said, is growing bigger by the day."I think ... she's too nervous to just admit that she's not been telling the truth," he said. "(That) is why she keeps on making up more and more lies to help fit the story as it goes."