Story highlights The red tuna crabs may have been carried from their usual habitat by warm water currentsExperts warn against eating them because they may contain unknown toxins(CNN) Like a scene from a B-movie, hordes of bright red crabs have taken over San Diego's coastline from Ocean Beach to La Jolla.Masses of the small red tuna crabs, or pelagic red crabs, have been washing up along the southern California shoreline for the past couple of weeks, according to local media reportsJUST WATCHED Why are creatures washing ashore on California's coast? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why are creatures washing ashore on California's coast? 01:17The striking sight may be the result of warm water carrying the crustaceans from their usual home along the west coast of Baja California and the Gulf of California, according to Linsey Sala, a museum scientist at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, UC San Diego."Typically such strandings of these species in large numbers are due to warm water intrusions," said Sala.The species, proper name Pleuroncodes planipes, is unique in that it can live its entire life cycle, from larva to adulthood, in the water column from surface to seafloor, she said. This makes it vulnerable to being carried along by winds, tides, and currents.Photos: Red tuna crabs invade San Diego beaches Masses of small red tuna crabs washed up along the southern California shoreline in June, according to local media reports. The striking sight may be the result of warm water carrying the crustaceans from their usual home along the west coast of Baja California and the Gulf of California, according to Linsey Sala, a museum scientist at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, UC San Diego. Hide Caption 1 of 5 Photos: Red tuna crabs invade San Diego beaches The species, proper name Pleuroncodes planipes, is unique in that it can live its entire life cycle, from larva to adulthood, in the water column from surface to seafloor, Sala said. Hide Caption 2 of 5 Photos: Red tuna crabs invade San Diego beaches "Typically such strandings of these species in large numbers are due to warm water intrusions," said Sala. Hide Caption 3 of 5 Photos: Red tuna crabs invade San Diego beaches "The sand was sprinkled with red for as far as you could see," said San Diego resident Jim Grant , who took these photos. Hide Caption 4 of 5 Photos: Red tuna crabs invade San Diego beaches People were fascinated, said the freelance photographer. He spotted some folks picking up live crabs and taking them home to cook. While the crabs are pretty to look at, experts warn against eating them because they could contain unknown toxins. Hide Caption 5 of 5