(CNN) The race of one of the most prominent faces in Spokane, Washington's black community is under question after her estranged mother claimed she is white but is "being dishonest and deceptive with her identity."Rachel Dolezal, 37, is the head of the local chapter of the NAACP and has identified herself as at least partly African-American. But her Montana birth certificate says she was born to two parents who say they are Caucasian. The parents shared that document and old photos with CNN."We are her birth parents," Lawrence Dolezal told CNN on Friday. "We do not understand why she feels it's necessary to misrepresent her ethnicity."CNN tried to reach Rachel Dolezal for comment by emailing and calling her, but was unsuccessful. The Spokane Spokesman-Review . newspaper reported, though, that she has framed the controversy surrounding her racial identity in the context of litigation over guardianship of her adopted brother.According to court documents obtained by CNN, Rachel Dolezal's adopted brother, who is black, sought emancipation from Ruthanne and Lawrence Dolezal in 2010. The adopted brother, now 21, said the Dolezals used "physical forms of punishment" and had sent his brother and sister away to group homes because they didn't cooperate with the couple's religion and rules.The adopted brother wanted to live with Rachel Dolezal "in a multiracial household where black culture is celebrated and I have a connection to the black community," the court papers said. The papers did not specify Rachel Dolezal's race.The petition for emancipation was dropped. In a separate legal action in 2010, the court appointed Rachel Dolezal to be the adopted brother's guardian with the consent of Ruthanne and Lawrence Dolezal.On Friday, the Dolezals told CNN they didn't want to comment on a possible "legal dispute" their daughter or the NAACP had mentioned.One organization that appears to be standing behind her is the NAACP. The group, historically one of the most prominent in supporting causes important to the African-American community, said Friday that Dolezal is "enduring a legal issue with her family" and that "we respect her privacy in this matter.""One's racial identity is not a qualifying criteria or disqualifying standard for NAACP leadership," the group said. "The NAACP Alaska-Oregon-Washington State Conference stands behind Ms. Dolezal's advocacy record."Challenged about her raceDolezal represented herself as African-American -- along with several other ethnicities, including white and Native American -- in an application for a Spokane police ombudsman commission.And she has presented the public with a different family photograph posted to the local NAACP chapter's Facebook page. When she announced her father was coming to town for a visit, she showed herself standing next to an older African-American man.JUST WATCHED NAACP official's race questioned Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NAACP official's race questioned 01:00Dolezal's public racial identity came under scrutiny on Thursday, when a reporter from CNN affiliate KXLY held up that photo asked her if it showed her dad. She replied that it did.Then came a follow-up question: "Are you African-American?""I don't understand the question of -- I did tell you that, yes, that's my dad. And he was unable to come in January," Dolezal responded."Are your parents -- are they white?" came the next query.Dolezal walked away from the microphone, leaving her purse and keys, and took refuge in a nearby clothing boutique.Expert, advocate on black communityPhotos: NAACP official's race questioned Photos: NAACP official's race questioned Rachel Dolezal, 37, was the head of the local chapter of the NAACP and has identified herself as African-American. But her Montana birth certificate says she was born to two people who say they are Caucasian. She is seen as a teenager at left in an old family photo and in a more recent picture from Eastern Washington University, where she teaches classes related to African-American culture. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: NAACP official's race questioned Dolezal's birth certificate shows that she was born to Lawrence Dolezal and Ruthanne Schertel. Her public racial identity came under scrutiny on Thursday, June 11, in an interview with a reporter from CNN affiliate KXLY Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: NAACP official's race questioned A family photo shows Dolezal's family at her wedding reception in Jackson, Mississippi, on May 21, 2000. Her family is racially mixed; four of her adopted siblings are black. She and her husband, Kevin, are standing between her parents. Her grandparents are at right and her adopted siblings are in the front row. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: NAACP official's race questioned Another family photo shows Dolezal as a teenager. Her mother told the Spokane Spokesman-Review that after she and her husband adopted four African-American children, Dolezal began to "disguise herself." Dolezal brushed off the controversy surrounding her racial identity as part of a family fight over alleged abuse, the Spokesman-Review reported. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: NAACP official's race questioned Dolezal poses for a picture with prosecutor Marilyn Mosby. Dolezal's mother said on Friday, June 12, that her daughter "has not explained to us why she is doing what she's doing and being dishonest and deceptive with her identity." Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: NAACP official's race questioned Matt Lauer interviews Dolezal on the "Today" show on Tuesday, June 16. Dolezal revealed that she started identifying as black around age 5, when she would draw self-portraits with a brown crayon. She told Lauer she "takes exception" to the contention that she tried to deceive people. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: NAACP official's race questioned "My life has been one of survival," Dolezal told Lauer. "And the decisions that I have made along the way have been to survive and to carry forward in my journey and life continuum." Hide Caption 7 of 7Dolezal has built a wide-ranging career as an expert on and advocate for the black community.She is not just president of her local NAACP chapter; she is also an academic expert on African-American culture and teaches many related classes at Eastern Washington University.She represents the black community publicly and vocally, including as a spokeswoman on race-influenced police violence. On Tuesday she spoke to Al Jazeera on the topic. And Dolezal has appeared alongside Baltimore City State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby, who has filed charges against police officers in the death of Freddie Gray, a young black man.The mayor of Spokane appointed Dolezal chairwoman of a police oversight committee to keep an eye on fairness in police work.After the allegations of faked racial identity surfaced, Mayor David Condon and City Council President Ben Stuckart said they take "very seriously the concerns raised regarding the chair of the independent citizen police ombudsman commission."The city is checking to see if she has violated any policies.Still, what Dolezal has done is more important than what race she is to the NAACP, regional President Gerald Hankerson said. He called the NAACP a civil rights organization first that includes "leaders from all different ethnicities," adding that it "doesn't do a genealogy search on what a person's ethnicity is when they" take a top position.As to Dolezal specifically, Hankerson said, "We represent all civil rights issues, regardless of a person's ethnicity. And the quality of the work that she has done to elevate the issues of civil rights in that region is what we applaud."Dolezal has said she's been harassed in Spokane because of her race and activism.In September 2009, she told Spokane police she found a noose on her front porch a few days after her house was burglarized, according to a police report. Dolezal said she had numerous problems with the Aryan Nation and other hate groups because of her job and "biracial heritage," the report said."I spent a lot of time in Mississippi so when I saw that rope, I knew what it was," she said in an article in the Coueur d'Alene Press.In February she reported finding an unnerving letter in the post office box for the NAACP. The police report said the envelope contained copies of news articles, prints of old photos of lynching victims and quotes about socialism and the New World Order.The letter contained no direct threats against Dolezal or the NAACP, police said.Police haven't made arrests in either of the cases.Dolezal: Explanation 'not as easy as it seems'Rachel Dolezal grew up in what her parents called a diverse family, with friends from various ethnicities and four adopted siblings who were black. She was "always interested in ethnicity and diversity" growing up, her mother Ruthanne Dolezal said.Dolezal attended college in Mississippi, then went on to Howard University on scholarship -- not having identified herself black then on her application, because there was no such option, though people there may have assumed as much "because her portfolio of art was all African-American portraiture," her mother said.It wasn't until around 2007, her parents said, that Dolezal began identifying herself more with the African-American community, according to her mother.Her parents say Rachel Dolezal "has chosen to distance herself from the family.""She has not explained to us why she is doing what she is doing and being dishonest ... with her identity," Ruthanne Dolezal said.Rachel Dolezal wouldn't answer the Spokesman-Review's questions about her racial heritage directly and said she wanted to talk to local NAACP leadership first. "I feel like I owe my executive committee a conversation," she said."That question is not as easy as it seems," Dolezal told the Spokesman-Review. "There's a lot of complexities ... and I don't know that everyone would understand that."The NAACP, it seems, wasn't about to disqualify her if she's indeed white."In every corner of this country," the group said, "the NAACP remains committed to securing political, educational and economic justice for all people. And we encourage Americans of all stripes to become members and serve as leaders in our organization."Story stirs vigorous debate on social mediaSome users raised the idea of racial passing, in which a person of one race acts as if they belong to another. Others floated the notion that people could cross over lines of racial identity as they do with sexual identity."Hmm interesting article about #racheldolezal. If she identifies as black, can she be transracial?" one user asked. Other users compared Dolezal with Caitlyn Jenner, formerly known as Bruce Jenner, often in a derogatory manner.Hmm interesting article about #racheldolezal. If she identifies as black, can she be transracial? — Kate Hewitt/K Swartz (@katehewitt1) June 12, 2015But many users, particularly African-Americans, bemoaned that switching race doesn't work like switching gender, noting that black people can't pretend to be white to avoid discrimination."My prob w/ #Transracial: Black folk cant decide to be white when the cops raid their pool party. But a white woman can be NAACP president," wrote hip-hop artist Lizzo.My prob w/ #Transracial: Black folk cant decide to be white when the cops raid their pool party. But a white woman can be NAACP president. — |L I Z Z O| (@lizzo) June 12, 2015"If #RachelDolezal can do it, so can I. I am now a white American. Give me: good credit, the ability to swim, and police NOT beating me," PrestonMitchum tweeted.If #RachelDolezal can do it, so can I. I am now a white American. Give me: good credit, the ability to swim, and police NOT beating me. — PrestonMitchum (@PrestonMitchum) June 12, 2015It's not just her appropriation. It's that she claimed an oppression that wasn't hers. #RachelDolezal pic.twitter.com/we4yn3aAlk — Charles Clymer (@cmclymer) June 12, 2015"It's not just her appropriation. It's that she claimed an oppression that wasn't hers," wrote user Charles Clymer.Yet Hankerson -- the top NAACP official for Washington state as well as Oregon and Alaska -- questioned how much her race should really matter and whether this debate was worth having."It's unfortunate that this has become a trending conversation," he said, "when there's a lot more important things that are going on in America that we should be better addressing."