It's Thursday, and here are five things to know for your New Day:DUGGAR SCANDALParents speak: Jim Bob and Michelle Duggar, in a TV interview last night, defended how they handled molestation allegations against their son Josh, saying "we had safeguards" in place to protect the victims after he first told them about his actions. The "19 Kids and Counting" stars also felt that the withering criticism they have endured since the scandal broke is actually an attack on their Christian faith. No word yet on when Josh Duggar himself will speak about the incidents.JUST WATCHED Jim Bob Duggar: 'We had safe guards' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jim Bob Duggar: 'We had safe guards' 04:53ISIS DEATHSA numbers game: The fight against ISIS has killed thousands of ISIS fighters. Actually The fight against ISIS has killed thousands of ISIS fighters. Actually more than 10,000 , according to the U.S. Deputy Secretary of State. But that's not as impressive as it sounds, says the CIA, which estimates the terror group can replace fighters almost as fast as they're killed, through a combination of recruitment and conscription.JUST WATCHED U.S. official: 10,000 ISIS members killed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH U.S. official: 10,000 ISIS members killed 03:00BOSTON SHOOTINGTrue target: Boston police confronted terror suspect Usaamah Rahim because they thought Rahim -- believed to be radicalized by ISIS -- wanted to kill police. Rahim was shot and killed after he lunged at officers with a knife. But apparently law enforcement wasn't Rahim's original target. It was revealed yesterday the 26-year-old man really wanted to Boston police confronted terror suspect Usaamah Rahim because they thought Rahim -- believed to be radicalized by ISIS -- wanted to kill police. Rahim was shot and killed after he lunged at officers with a knife. But apparently law enforcement wasn't Rahim's original target. It was revealed yesterday the 26-year-old man really wanted to behead activist and conservative blogger Pamela Geller -- best known for her "draw Prophet Mohammed" contests -- but abandoned that plan because he couldn't "wait that long."JUST WATCHED 'Draw Mohammed' organizer target of Boston terror plot Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Draw Mohammed' organizer target of Boston terror plot 05:18CAMPAIGN 2016Chafee's in: Who's up next in the 2016 presidential sweepstakes? It's former Rhode Island Gov. Lincoln Chafee. He Who's up next in the 2016 presidential sweepstakes? It's former Rhode Island Gov. Lincoln Chafee. He launched his bid for the Democratic nomination yesterday at Virginia's George Mason University. Like the other Democratic candidates, he railed against the "Hillary Clinton is the inevitable nominee" meme. Unlike any of the other candidates, he wants the U.S. to convert to the metric system. Um, what? Is this 1975 or something? Can't wait to hear him champion that idea in the debates.JUST WATCHED Lincoln Chafee joins 2016 presidential race Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Lincoln Chafee joins 2016 presidential race 03:13FIFA SCANDALBlazer's bribe: More troubles for soccer's governing body. Chuck Blazer, an ex-FIFA executive committee member, said he and other officials took bribes ahead of the More troubles for soccer's governing body. Chuck Blazer, an ex-FIFA executive committee member, said he and other officials took bribes ahead of the 1998 and 2010 World Cups . Blazer pleaded guilty to 10 felonies in 2013, including racketeering and wire fraud. His admission is contained in a transcript of a court appearance related to the plea deal. Not clear how this will figure into the current U.S. and Swiss probes of FIFA.JUST WATCHED Blazer: I took bribes for French, S. African World Cups Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Blazer: I took bribes for French, S. African World Cups 02:33Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Trimming the 'Colbeard': Stephen Colbert (remember him?) trims the beard he's been growing since leaving "The Colbert Report."Time travel: EarthCam releases a dramatic time-lapse video of the 11-year construction of One World Trade Center.Sign him to a contract: A friendly bear makes a nifty, one-handed catch. There's probably a spot in the majors for him.Cuteness alert!: Seriously, nothing is cuter than baby goats prancing around in pajamas.