Centennial, Colorado (CNN) The capital murder trial of James Holmes reached a turning point when the prosecution rested its case this week, calling as its last witness a victim who survived the movie theater massacre but lost her pregnancy and her small daughter.Holmes: "That's why you kill many people."Girlfriend: "killing people is too much effort, you'll end up locked up. most people are not worth what might happen to you coz of the act."Holmes: "Kill people of course. That is why I live in the future."Girlfriend, later: "what is so evil that you want to do?"Holmes: "Well what I feel like doing is evil so can't do that"Girlfriend: "...do what you feel like doing, its a sunday afternoon."Here's a portion of what they wrote each other on March 25, 2012, without corrected grammar:A Colorado court released the chat message exchange between James Holmes and his then girlfriend Gargi Datta months before he allegedly opened fire in a crowded movie theater on July 20, 2012.What James Holmes told his girlfriend about killingHer powerful testimony capped two months of work for the jury thus far.It was also a week where the jurors themselves were in the news -- again. Another was dismissed.Next week jurors will begin hearing the defense's case. Holmes, 27, a one-time promising doctoral student in neuroscience, has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity to 165 counts alleging he killed 12 people and injured 70 more at a midnight showing of the new Batman movie "The Dark Knight Rises" in Aurora, Colorado, in 2012.Here are five things from the week's proceedings on one of the worst mass killings in U.S. history.Wrenching testimonyThe prosecution rested Friday with heartbreaking testimony from survivor Ashley Moser.Moser, then 25, was pregnant and was shot 3 times.She lost her pregnancy and is now paralyzed.She also lost her 6-year-old daughter, Veronica Moser-Sullivan, the youngest of the slain victims.The mother stood up to try to leave the theater and got shot, falling on top of Veronica.Photos: Colorado shooting victims Photos: Colorado shooting victims Jonathan T. Blunk, 26, served for five years in the U.S. Navy. He died shielding a friend from the gunfire inside the theater. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Alexander J. Boik, 18, was remembered by friends and loved ones as a "great person" whose "craziness touched hundreds," according to a Facebook page created in his memory. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Air Force Staff Sgt. Jesse E. Childress, an Air Force reservist, was a cybersystems operator on active duty. He was 29. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Gordon W. Cowden, 51, took his two teenage children to the theater. His children escaped unharmed. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Jessica Ghawi, 24, was an aspiring sports reporter. She grew up in Texas before moving to Denver to try break into the television market there. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Petty Officer 3rd Class John Thomas Larimer, 27, served in the Navy like his father and grandfather. He had been in the service for about a year. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Matthew R. McQuinn, 27, died trying to provide cover for his girlfriend, Samantha Yowler, during the shooting, according to a family attorney. Yowler survived. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Micayla C. Medek, 23, known to her friends as Cayla, was "very spiritual and close to God," cousin Anita Busch told CNN. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Veronica Moser Sullivan, 6, was the youngest victim of the Aurora theater shooting. She had just learned how to swim. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Alex M. Sullivan, 27, went to the movie to celebrate his birthday with his wife, two days before their first wedding anniversary. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Alexander C. Teves, 24, recently graduated from the University of Denver with a master's degree in counseling psychology. He died protecting his girlfriend. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Colorado shooting victims Rebecca Ann Wingo, 32, joined the Air Force after high school, became fluent in Mandarin and served as a translator, according to CNN affiliate WFAA. Hide Caption 12 of 12Friend Kaylan Bailey, then 13 and a frequent babysitter to Veronica, tried to give Veronica CPR, but couldn't get to Veronica's chest because the mom was lying atop her daughter, and the mom couldn't be moved.Moser sobbed under questioning by District Attorney George Brauchler."As soon as I stood up, I just remember getting hit in the chest, and I remember falling and landing on top of her," Moser testified.Do you know what hit you in the chest, the prosecutor asked."No, I thought it was a firework at the time," Moser said.When you fell on top of her, did you feel her moving, the prosecutor asked."No."Did you feel her breathing?"No."Could you get off of her?"No," Moser said. "I tried, but I couldn't move."Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Cynthia Davis, center, visits the roadside memorial set up for victims of the Colorado shooting massacre across the street from the Century 16 movie theater on Monday, July 30, 2012, in Aurora, Colorado. Twelve people were killed in the theater early July 20, 2012, during a screening of "The Dark Knight Rises." Suspect James Holmes was taken into custody shortly after the attack. More photos: Colorado movie theater shooting Hide Caption 1 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims People visit the roadside memorial set up for victims of the massacre on Monday. Hide Caption 2 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Visitors pray around a cross at the memorial across the street from the theater on Saturday, July 28. Hide Caption 3 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Jeremy Blocker displays a new tattoo honoring the victims. Hide Caption 4 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Members of Alex Sullivan's family embrace at a memorial across the street from the Century 16 movie theater on Thursday, July 26. Hide Caption 5 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Hello Kitty-themed flowers are sent to shooting victim Micayla Medek's funeral Thursday in Denver. Hide Caption 6 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Pallbearers carry Micayla Medek's coffin during her funeral at the New Hope Baptist Church on Thursday. Hide Caption 7 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims People visit a memorial across the street from the Century 16 movie theater on Thursday, July 26, in Aurora, Colorado. Hide Caption 8 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Angella Aquilis, left, and Maria Olivas mourn together at a makeshift memorial across the street from the Century 16 movie theater Wedesday, July 25. Hide Caption 9 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Yvonne Amaro, 9, prays for those injured and killed as she visits the memorial on Wednesday. Hide Caption 10 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Carrie Hensley, left, and Hailee Hensley mourn together on Wednesday. Hide Caption 11 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Kevin Flynn, left, Aurora Police top brass division chief, and Cmdr. Jack Daluz visit the makeshift memorial. Hide Caption 12 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A couple embraces as "Dark Knight Rises" star Christian Bale and his wife, Sandra Blazic, wait to place flowers at the memorial on Tuesday. Hide Caption 13 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Bale places flowers at the memorial while other mourners look on. Hide Caption 14 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Visitors pay tribute Tuesday, July 24, at the makeshift memorial. Hide Caption 15 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A cross stands at the makeshift memorial for victims across the street from the Century 16 theater on Tuesday. Hide Caption 16 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Greg Zanis of Aurora, Illinois, carries two of the 12 crosses he made for a makeshift memorial to the victims of last weekend's mass shooting at the Century 16 movie theater on Sunday, July 22. Hide Caption 17 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Greg Zanis writes the names of the victims of last weekend's mass shooting on the crosses before erecting them at the memorial across from the Century 16 movie theater on Sunday. Zanis, a carpenter, drove all night from Illinois to deliver the crosses. Hide Caption 18 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Parishioners pray during morning Mass, remembering victims of the theater shooting, at the Queen of Peace Catholic Church on Sunday. Hide Caption 19 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Angie Terry of Alabama prays next to a white wooden cross erected for victims. Hide Caption 20 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A man pauses before the crosses at the memorial near the Century 16 movie theater on Sunday. Hide Caption 21 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims President Barack Obama embraces Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper as Sen. Mark Udall, left, and Sen. Michael Bennet look on during a visit to the University of Colorado Hospital on Sunday. Hide Caption 22 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Mourners bow their heads in prayer during the vigil for the victims of the Aurora shooting. Hide Caption 23 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A woman is overcome with emotion during the vigil. Hide Caption 24 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Tiffany Garcia, right, and her 6-year-old daughter, Angelina Garcia, cry on Saturday, July 21, as they look at a memorial for the victims of Friday's shooting. Hide Caption 25 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims People pray at a cross erected at the makeshift memorial across the street from the Century 16 theater on Saturday. Hide Caption 26 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Family, friends and former classmates of movie theater shooting victim A.J. Boik gather for a memorial service at Gateway High School on Saturday. Hide Caption 27 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Boik and his girlfriend were at the midnight showing of 'The Dark Knight Rises' when a gunman killed Boik and 11 other people. Hide Caption 28 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Movie theater shooting victim A.J. Boik's girlfriend, Lasamoa Croft, center, embraces his mother during the memorial service. Hide Caption 29 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Eman Alexander, 17, pins a ribbon on his shirt while joining family, friends and former classmates to honor shooting victim A.J. Boik. Hide Caption 30 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Denise Toepel of Denver sheds tears while visiting a makeshift memorial across the street from the Century 16 movie theater on Saturday, July 21. Hide Caption 31 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Handwritten signs decorate the makeshift memorial across from the Century 16 movie theater on Saturday. Hide Caption 32 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Gerald Wright, 24, relights candles that have blown out at the victims' memorial across from the movie theater. Hide Caption 33 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Aviation Boatswain's Mate 3rd Class Jajuan Mangual lowers the American flag on the flight deck of the aircraft carrier USS George H.W. Bush to half-mast on Saturday. One U.S. Navy sailor was killed in the shooting and another injured. Hide Caption 34 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Two women mourn near the theater on Saturday. Hide Caption 35 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Alicia Prevette, left, and Paul Stepherson attend a vigil for the victims Friday at the Century 16 movie theater. Hide Caption 36 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A woman lights a candle at a makeshift memorial where the victims of the massacre are mourned. Hide Caption 37 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Mourners hold hands at a vigil near the theater. Hide Caption 38 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Mourners hug as they grieve the loss of the victims. Hide Caption 39 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A group of teenagers stand behind a sign that reads "Strength." Hide Caption 40 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Dara Anderson, left, and Monique Anderson cry during a candlelight vigil across the street from the crime scene. Hide Caption 41 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A woman holds a lit candle at a makeshift memorial. Hide Caption 42 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Marietta Perkins of Denver prays for victims and their families. Hide Caption 43 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Lonnie Delgado, right, hugs Heaven Leek during a prayer. Hide Caption 44 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A mourner grieves on the curb during a memorial service. Hide Caption 45 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims People hug during a vigil for the victims. Hide Caption 46 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Handwritten consolation letters lie beneath flowers at a makeshift memorial. Hide Caption 47 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Nathan Mendoza, left, and Melissa Clark sit on the grass during a vigil. Hide Caption 48 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Flags, flowers and candles make up a memorial site. Hide Caption 49 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims Two mourners sit on the ground at a vigil. Hide Caption 50 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A sign prevents moviegoers from wearing masks or bringing in props to the AMC Arapahoe Crossing 16 movie theater in Aurora. Hide Caption 51 of 52 Photos: Colorado massacre: Mourning the victims A woman looks at a makeshift memorial after attending a candlelight vigil. Hide Caption 52 of 52Moser remembered people crying and screaming, and she was very scared.Her next memory was of being carried out of the cinema.She is still recovering from the catastrophic injuries."I got shot three times, one in my thigh, twice in my back," Moser said. "One went all the way through my chest, and the other one ricocheted off my shoulder blade and into my spinal cord."Moser has permanent nerve pain in her legs. She can't walk but has regained some feeling in her upper body. She has no control over bodily functions and relies on an oxygen tank to breath at night due to the removal of the upper left lobe of her lung, she testified.The prosecutor then asked her about learning of her daughter's death.Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The public gets its first glimpse of James Holmes, then 24, the suspect in the Colorado theater shooting during his initial court appearance July 23, 2012. With his hair dyed reddish-orange, Holmes, here with public defender Tamara Brady, showed little emotion. He is accused of opening fire in a movie theater July 20, 2012, in Aurora, Colorado, killing 12 people and wounding 70. Holmes faces 166 counts, almost all alleging murder or attempted murder. He has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. More photos: Mourning the victims of the Colorado theater massacre Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police release the official photo from Holmes' booking after the shooting. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes often had a blank stare during his July 23, 2012, court appearance, seeming to be in a daze. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Victims and their relatives and journalists watch the proceedings in 2012. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Flags fly at half-staff on July 23, 2012, at the Arapahoe County Courthouse in Centennial, Colorado, where the movie theater shooting suspect had his first court appearance. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Arapahoe County District Attorney Carol Chambers talks to reporters July 23, 2012, before heading into the courthouse. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Family members of the victims arrive at the courthouse July 23, 2012, for the suspect's first court appearance. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The Century Aurora 16 multiplex in Aurora becomes a place of horror after a gunman opened fire July 20, 2012, in a crowded theater. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes is accused of opening fire during a midnight screening of the Batman movie "The Dark Knight Rises." Holmes purchased four weapons and more than 6,000 rounds of ammunition, police say. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police investigate outside the Century 16 multiplex July 21, 2012, a day after the mass shooting. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the suspect's car outside the theater. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police escort a sand-filled dump truck containing improvised explosive devices removed from Holmes' booby-trapped apartment on July 21, 2012. Authorities have said they believe the suspect rigged his place before leaving for the movie theater. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police break a window at the suspect's apartment July 20, 2012, in Aurora. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers speak with Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper, center, outside the suspect's apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers prepare to disarm the booby-trapped apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officials tow cars outside Holmes' apartment July 21, 2012. Police disassembled devices and trip wires set up in the apartment. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers prepare to place an explosive device inside the apartment. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Debris flies out a window, right, after law enforcement officers detonate an explosive device inside the apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People mourn the victims during a vigil behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers in Aurora. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman grieves during a vigil for victims behind the theater. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A distraught woman receives counseling from the Rev. Quincy Shannon, left, in front of Gateway High School in Aurora, where the families of the missing met after the shooting. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Lin Gan of Aurora holds back tears as she speaks to reporters about her experience in the Century 16 theater. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People embrace before a vigil for victims behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators work on evidence near the apartment of James Holmes on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Members of the Aurora Police Department SWAT unit walk near the Holmes' apartment. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Television news crews gather in front of the home of Robert and Arlene Holmes, parents of suspect James Holmes, in San Diego on July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A popcorn box lies on the ground outside the Century 16 movie theater. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Adariah Legarreta, 4, is comforted by her grandmother Rita Abeyta near the Century 16 Theater in Aurora. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Jessica Ghawi, an aspiring sportscaster, was one of the victims. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman waits for news outside Gateway High School, a few blocks from the scene of the shooting at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police chief Daniel J. Oates speaks at a press conference near the Century 16 Theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the trash container outside the suspect's apartment in Aurora. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A Federal ATF officer carries protective gear onsite at the home of the shooting suspect. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre President Obama speaks on the shootings at a July 20, 2012, event in Fort Myers, Florida. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Moviegoers are interviewed at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers gather at the theater July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators were a common sight at the theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Authorities gather at the shooting suspect's apartment building in Aurora. Police broke a second-floor window to look for explosives the suspect claimed were in the apartment. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Screaming, panicked moviegoers scrambled to escape from the black-clad gunman, who wore a gas mask and randomly shot as he walked up the theater's steps, witnesses said. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Onlookers gather outside the Century Aurora 16 theater. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman sits on top of her car near the crime scene. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police block access to the Town Center mall after the shooting. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Cell phone video taken by someone at the theater showed scores of people screaming and fleeing the building. Some, like this man, had blood on their clothes. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Witnesses told KUSA the gunman kicked in an emergency exit door and threw a smoke bomb into the darkened theater before opening fire. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre What is believed to be the suspect's car is examined after the shooting. Hide Caption 45 of 45"It was Thursday night or Friday morning when this happened. Were you told on Sunday finally something about your daughter?" the prosecutor asked."Yes, I was," Moser said.What were you told?Moser paused and sobbed before the jury: "I was told that she didn't make it, that she had passed away," she said.Through tears, Ashley then identified her daughter in a picture taken from her kindergarten graduation.Prosecution restsImmediately following Moser's testimony, District Attorney Brauchler declared to the court: "Your honor, the people of the state of Colorado rest."The culmination of proceedings Friday marked day 35 and week eight of the trial.In all, the prosecution called more than 200 witnesses. They included a wide variety of law officers, crime scene investigators, first responders, and University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus professors and students who knew Holmes in the neuroscience program.Four psychiatrists testified about their professional opinions about Holmes' mental health and sanity: two court appointed doctors who did psychiatric evaluations and two others who treated Holmes in the months before the shooting.Holmes' ex-girlfriend and friends also testified. Various records custodians from stores told the jury about where Holmes purchased weapons and protective gear and ammunition.Woven throughout all these witnesses was emotional testimony from survivors. Their accounts were devastating and hauntingly consistent in terms of what happened that night and the lasting physical and emotional injuries.The prosecution never let too much time go by before calling a survivor to testify -- seeming to want to keep the emotion in play for the jurors as the weeks wore on.The defense starts presenting its case on Thursday.More juror issuesA total of five jurors have been dismissed in the past two weeks.That contrasts to the first six weeks of the trial, when there were no juror dismissals.That leaves 12 jurors and seven alternates for what could be two more months of trial. The gender breakdown is 14 women and five men.Of the 19, the judge and the attorneys are the only ones who know which are actual jurors and which are alternates.JUST WATCHED Inside the mind of James Holmes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Inside the mind of James Holmes 02:20Here's a quick summary of how the juror dismissals:* June 9: The judge excused three jurors after a fourth juror reported overhearing one of them talking about the case during a court break. The fourth juror revealed two such incidents.* Monday, June 15: A woman juror become the fourth dismissal after she changed her story to the judge about how her brother-in-law became involved in a mishap. One day, she told the judge her relative was in an accident. Another day, she told the judge he was involved in a shooting. Arapahoe County Judge Carlos Samour was concerned that the juror may have known about the nature of her relative's incident on June 10 but withheld information from the court to remain a juror. The judge also expressed concern for the juror's emotional well-being.In a twist, this removed juror returned to the courtroom as an observer on Thursday. The judge warned the jurors that they are not allowed to speak with the former juror. And the judge also warned the former juror that she is not allowed to speak to the jurors or the media.JUST WATCHED Three jurors dismissed from Colorado theater shooting trial Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Three jurors dismissed from Colorado theater shooting trial 01:29* Wednesday, June 17: Another woman juror was dismissed for not being forthcoming to the judge about recognizing a witness, Maria Carbonell, who testified on May 5. Carbonell's son attends the school where the juror works. "I don't believe you were completely forthcoming and candid with me when Ms. Carbonell testified," the judge told the juror being ousted. "I think Ms. Carbonell recognized you and she told us about it. And then it's when she told us about it that you and I ended up having a conversation on May 6, so I'm going to go ahead and release you."On the other hand, a male juror asked to speak to the judge this week because he recognized one of the witness as someone he plays fantasy football with and has hung out with now and then. The juror assured the judge that knowing the witness would not interfere with his ability to be fair and impartial, so the judge thanked the juror and continued with the trial with that juror still on the job.A video of Holmes buying weaponsFor the first time, jurors saw a tape of James Holmes purchasing two of the weapons used in the movie theater massacre. The two videos came from store surveillance cameras, captured about a month apart and just weeks before the shooting in the post-midnight minutes of July 20, 2012.The first video shows Holmes walking into Gander Mountain in Thornton, Colorado, on June 7, 2012. With short brown hair and in dark clothing, he strolled up to the firearms counter and left 30 minutes later with an MMP 15 sport rifle, three bushmaster magazines, a shotgun sling, and some .223 ammunition that cost $968.38, according to the receipt from that day.JUST WATCHED Accused theather shooter has 'regrets' about shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Accused theather shooter has 'regrets' about shooting 02:52Lee McGinley, the sales associate who helped Holmes that day, explained all firearms purchases have to be approved by the Colorado Bureau of Investigation, or CBI, which can take just a few minutes or several hours.Holmes passed a background check, McGinley told the court.The second video, from at Bass Pro Shops in Denver, provided a grainy, shorter account of Holmes on July 6, 2012: Sales associate Brian Pennington testified he was behind the counter attending a customer in front of him. It was Holmes, wearing a tan shirt, a tan hat and light colored pants.The video does not show the customers' face, nor Holmes' hair, which he had reportedly already dyed orange by then. That orange-red hair later became a signature of Holmes' mug shot, making him resemble the cartoon villain Joker in the Batman serials.JUST WATCHED Theater shooter describes 'homicidal thoughts' in video Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Theater shooter describes 'homicidal thoughts' in video 02:34Pennington didn't remember Holmes specifically, but he did remember a problem with the sales transaction."At the time of the purchase, the first credit card was declined," Pennington told the court.Prosecutors used that piece of information to connect the video with a receipt from the time of purchase showing Holmes' MasterCard had been declined, twice. He eventually used a Visa to pay the $1,149.24 bill and left with several items, including a Glock handgun, ammunition, and cleaning supplies.Heartbreak and horrorSobs cut through the silence in the courtroom as shooting survivor Jamison Toews testified about the moment he realized 6-year-old Veronica Moser-Sullivan had no pulse.Toews was in the theater with his pregnant girlfriend, Ashley Moser, also Veronica's mother.The trio was joined by two teenage girls who babysat Veronica earlier in the day. One of those babysitters was Toews' cousin, Kaylan Bailey.Toews described being hit in the face with buckshot even before he realized what was happening.JUST WATCHED Holmes family speaks out Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Holmes family speaks out 02:46"My head was gushing blood," he recalled.He scanned the theater and saw people rushing for the exit and running down the stairs. One person dragged his leg "as if he were wounded," Toews said."And I saw the shooter shooting toward those people," Toews said.Moments later, he realized Veronica was on the ground with her mother atop her. The mother couldn't move.Toews became emotional as he described when police arrived and he yelled "that I have a pregnant woman that's down, a 6-year-old that's down.""They immediately came down to help us," Toews recounted. "They checked (emotional pause) they checked their pulses (pause), and Ashley had a pulse and Veronica did not."Through tears, Toews testified how a first responder carried Veronica down the stairs, put her on the floor and started CPR.But Toews was forced to leave the theater without the small girl to help get her mother to the hospital.Later, he learned Veronica did not survive.Neither did the couple's unborn baby.