Boston (CNN) Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is still trending in social media, but soon his name will fade from memory -- taking with it those horrific images of streets stained crimson with blood, faces contorted with pain and fear and limbs mangled beyond recognition.With the experienced eye of a trained observer and an avid trial-watcher's curious mind, Ann O'Neill is "The 13th Juror" for CNN's audience. Follow @AnnoCNN on Twitter daily.Boston and the rest of us might forget the details of who Tsarnaev was during the 19 years before his misguided spasm of violence changed everything for hundreds of people -- but we can't forget what he did. There's no glory here, just sadness.More and more, the angry young man with the big body count seems to have become a part of our lives in places like Boston, Aurora, Newtown, Charleston. So much so, there is a movement to avoid uttering the names of the killers and the accused: Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, James Eagan HolmesWhen I write about Holmes, my Twitter feed is set upon by people demanding I join their movement and not publish his name. They are well-intentioned, but I can't avoid the facts.As the people Tsarnaev hurt and robbed of loved ones walked one by one to the courtroom podium Wednesday and shared their pain, each of them referred to Tsarnaev as "the defendant." A handful said they could find forgiveness in their hearts, but many probably never will. What he did is unforgivable.Why they choose not to speak his name is understandable. But I must.Concealing facts, however unsavory, merely gives those facts more power, I've learned. And so, I will continue to name the bad guys -- not to glorify them, but so we can all know these young men and judge them even if we can't understand them. To do anything less would be irresponsible.Bill "Teko" Harris, a political radical from another era, once told me what he'd learned with 20/20 hindsight. Harris was a founder of the Symbionese Liberation Army, the people who kidnapped heiress Patty Hearst. He'd once been an idealistic young man, out to change the world. He wound up in prison for, among other things, his role in a bank robbery in which the wife of a doctor was shot and killed."Did I accomplish anything?" Harris mused years ago over a breakfast of eggs Benedict. "Yeah, I accomplished ignominy."So it will be with Tsarnaev and a holy war fueled by the Internet's false prophets.In this courtroom sketch, U.S. District Judge George O'Toole Jr. formally sentences Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to death.At a time when we're struggling with what to say or do about all these armed, angry young men, U.S. District Judge George A. O'Toole nailed it, with the help of Verdi and Shakespeare. By invoking the classics in his parting words to Tsarnaev, he reminded us that evil has walked among us for a very long time."One of Shakespeare's characters observes: 'The evil that men do lives after them. The good is oft interred with their bones.' So it will be for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev," the judge began.Tsarnaev may have believed he'd gain paradise wrapped in glory, but as the judge so clearly pointed out, destiny took him in another direction. This holy warrior is headed to death row.O'Toole imposed the jury's sentence: The death penalty times six."Whenever your name is mentioned, what will be remembered is the evil you have done," O'Toole told Tsarnaev."No one will remember that your teachers were fond of you. No one will mention that your friends found you funny and fun to be with. No one will say you were a talented athlete or that you displayed compassion in being a Best Buddy or that you showed more respect to your women friends than your male peers did.Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Martin Richard, 8, was in the second grade and loved the Red Sox. He was the middle of three children and is best known for a school project in which he made a poster with a peace sign and the words "No more hurting people." He was less than 4 feet from the second bomb. He bled to death as his mother leaned over him, begging him to live. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Lingzi Lu, 23, was a graduate student from China, studying statistics. A gifted musician and public speaker, she was enjoying her time in the United States. She decided to watch the Boston Marathon as a study break. The second bomb sliced her leg open from hip to toe, and she bled to death. Her aunt called her "a beautiful nerd." Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Krystle Campbell, 29, was remembered by her father as his "Princess," but she loved sports and the outdoors and "wasn't a girly girl," he said. She put on big family parties and was close to her brother. She was working as a restaurant manager. She was burned and cut by hot shrapnel from the first bomb and bled to death. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Sean Collier, 26, grew up in a big "Brady Bunch"-blended family and always wanted to be a police officer. He viewed the world from a moral stance, and felt a strong sense of right and wrong. He loved to race cars with his brother and go on family vacations. He was shot to death in his patrol car on the MIT campus because the Tsarnaev brothers wanted his gun to use in their escape. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Celeste Corcoran, left, and her daughter, Sydney Corcoran, recovered in the same hospital room. Doctors were able to save Sydney's leg, but Celeste lost both of hers. Sydney recalled how she felt the life drain from her body and believed she was dying. Celeste felt great frustration when she couldn't rush to her daughter's side. "I never forget I'm a double amputee," Celeste said. "There's always a level of discomfort." Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Adrianne Haslet-Davis is a ballroom dancer. She remembers walking through the crowd on Boylston Street, holding hands with her husband, Adam, and feeling happy and in love. Then the bombs went off. Her husband, who is in the military, told her they'd been in a terrorist attack. But the second bomb went off before they could leave. She knew immediately something was wrong with her foot, and could see blood everywhere. She couldn't hear her own screams and thought she was dead. They were dragged into the Forum restaurant, and a first responder recalled hearing her husband apologize to her over and over for bringing her to the event. She testified that he recently checked himself into a Veterans Affairs mental health program. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Erika Brannock was the last bomb survivor to leave the hospital. She came to the marathon from her home in suburban Maryland to cheer her mother on and was excited about being able to get so close to the finish line. Her sister, Nicole Gross, testified that she recalled pushing Brannock through the crowd so they could get closer. "I said, 'One, two, three, go,' and as soon as I said, 'Go,' the bomb went off," Gross said. Brannock told reporters in 2013 that she saw flashes of orange and yellow light and was knocked to the pavement. She couldn't move her foot and thought she was going to die. She said she's had moments when she was angry with the bombers but "I can't waste my energy being angry. I need to save energy for getting well and for being with people who care about me and want me to get better." Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Jeff Bauman remembers looking down at his legs. "It was just pure carnage. I could see my bones and the flesh sticking out, and I just went into tunnel vision. I thought this is really messed up, this is messed up, that's all I said in my head. This is how it's going to end. This is it. I had a great life. I saw the world. I played sports growing up. I had a lot of friends ... I made peace with myself at that point." Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Heather Abbott was outside the Forum restaurant when the second bomb went off. "I was catapulted through the doors of the restaurant, which was open. I landed in a puddle of chaos and blood and glass. People were running in herds by me, through the restaurant to get to the back exit, away from where the bomb was." Her foot was badly mangled, and she decided to amputate below the knee. She wears a prosthetic with toes and a high heel. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured J.P. Norden, left, and his brother, Paul Norden, did not testify during the trial, preferring to put the bombing behind them. Their mother, Liz, is outspoken in the survivor community. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Karen Rand McWatters lost a leg -- and one of her best friends. She and Krystle Campbell spent the day laughing and posting selfies on Facebook before heading to the finish line. She was knocked to the ground by the first blast, and heard the second before she could understand what was happening. Her foot was turned in the wrong direction, but she dragged herself toward Campbell. She couldn't see how badly hurt her friend was. "I got close to her head, and we put our faces together. She very slowly said her legs hurt, and we held hands and very shortly after her hand went limp and we never spoke again." Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Mery Daniel, a young mother from Haiti, was attending her second marathon when she was knocked to the pavement. She lost a leg, and the other leg was also damaged. She had pushed herself from ESL classes all the way to medical school, and instead found herself relearning how to walk with a prosthesis. She wears her "Boston Strong" T-shirt proudly. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Marc Fucarile was at the marathon with friends, and was struck by hot shrapnel from the second bomb. His pants caught fire, and he suffered burns over 90% of his lower body. His belt buckle was so hot, it burned his hand when he tried to undo it. One leg was blown off at the scene, and he's still trying to save the other, but might not win that battle, he said. He's had more skin grafts than he can remember. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Patrick Downes and Jessica Kensky Downes met when they were interns on Capitol Hill. She lost both legs and was pushed into court in a wheelchair. Her aide dog, Rescue, lay beside her as she testified. "I remember being happy, I remember feeling sunlight on my face. I remember feeling free." And then the bomb went off. Because she is a nurse, she focused on saving her husband. His foot and part of his leg were hanging by a thread. She remembers screaming, and not being able to hear anything. This photo was taken before she decided to amputate her second leg in January. "I wanted to paint my toenails and put my feet in the sand. I wanted all of those things, and to lose my second leg was a gut-wrenching decision." Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Rebekah Gregory was celebrating her birthday weekend at the marathon with family and friends. She remembers coming to after the blast and reaching for her 5-year-old son, Noah. She could see bones protruding from her arm. She also lost a leg below the knee. Like many bomb survivors, she was convinced she was going to die that day. She is using a blade to run again. After she testified, she wrote a note to Dzhokhar Tsarnaev on her Facebook page saying she is not afraid of him. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Roseann Sdoia had run a 5K the day before the marathon. She heard the first bomb and decided to run for it. Then she saw two explosions of white light at her feet. She knew she'd lost a leg before she hit the ground. She saw a severed foot with a sock and remembers asking herself if she wore socks that day. "It was somebody else's foot." She thought she'd rather die than live as an amputee but then considered all the people she'd be leaving behind. So she willed herself to stay conscious and fight. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Jane Richard, in the pink skirt, lost her leg. She holds the hand of her brother Henry as they walk down Boylston Street with their parents and others after an April 15 ceremony this year. She was standing next to her brother Martin behind a metal barricade when the second bomb went off. Her father, Bill, took one look at Martin, knew he wouldn't make it and focused his efforts on saving Jane. She sang in April at Fenway Park on opening day. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Mary Jo White and Bill White, right, had gone with son Kevin into the city for lunch and were on their way back to "the T," as Boston's public transportation system is called, when they decided to stop by the finish line. They were just feet away from the first bomb. Bill, a veteran who earned a Purple Heart in Vietnam, lost his leg above the knee. Kevin, who serves as the family spokesman, says his parents, who are in their 70s, don't like to talk about the events of April 15, 2013. He told his local newspaper he "really has no feelings" for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Steve Woolfenden, a biomedical researcher, was pushing his son, Leo, in a stroller along Boylston Street. His wife was running the marathon, and they were making their way to the finish line when the first bomb went off. He started to turn the stroller around in the crowd, but the second blast caught them. Woolfenden's leg was severed on the scene. He could see it still in the boot next to him, the tibia protruding. His focus was on Leo and getting him help. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Leo Woolfenden was lifted from his stroller by a first responder as the boy's father lay on the ground with a severed leg. Leo suffered a skull fracture.Hide Caption 20 of 20"What will be remembered is that you murdered and maimed innocent people and that you did it willfully and intentionally. You did it on purpose."How's that for taking the long view? But O'Toole was just getting warmed up.He told Tsarnaev that his attempts to justify what he did by convincing himself his victims were not innocent "was a monstrous self-deception."To get there, Tsarnaev had to redefine who he was, with tragic consequences. "You had to forget your own humanity, the common humanity that you shared with your brother Martin and your sister Lingzi."Martin Richard was 8 when he was standing on the marathon sidelines, and his 70-pound body took the full brunt of the blast from Tsarnaev's homemade pressure cooker bomb. He'd placed it in a backpack right behind the boy and stood there for four minutes. Lingzi Lu, a 23-year-old grad student from China, wasn't far away; the blast tore through her lower body, too.Both bled to death on Boylston Street, and the sounds and images of their final moments will haunt everyone who witnessed this trial.And then, the judge turned his attention to the late Anwar Al-Awlaki and other extremists whose violent Internet message incites young men like Tsarnaev and his brother, Tamerlan, to carry out lone wolf missions of jihad.Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was arrested on April 19, 2013, after a massive manhunt. An overnight shootout with police killed the other suspect -- Tsarnaev's 26-year-old brother, Tamerlan. A jury condemned Tsarnaev to death on Friday, May 15, for his role in killing four people and wounding hundreds more. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev On April 18, 2013, the FBI released photos and videos of two suspects and asked the public to help identify them. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found on April 19, 2013, in a boat that was dry-docked in the backyard of a Watertown home. He was covered in blood from bullet wounds. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev The August 2013 cover of Rolling Stone featured Tsarnaev and sparked a backlash against the magazine. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Tsarnaev stands in court, flanked by his lawyers, in this sketch from July 2013. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev An image posted to the social sharing website Reddit purportedly shows Dzhokhar Tsarnaev being detained by law enforcement officers. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Tsarnaev was seen on this convenience store surveillance video that was released by the Boston Police Department. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev A still of the suspects from footage released by the FBI after the bombing. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Additional photos and video were released by the FBI. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev A picture of Tsarnaev from his apparent profile on VKontakte, a Russian social network similar to Facebook. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev The Boston Police Department also released this undated photograph of Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 11 of 11"It is tragic, for your victims and now for you, that you succumbed to that diabolical siren song," the judge said. "Such men are not leaders but misleaders. They induced you not to a path to glory but to a judgment of condemnation."No God worth following would embrace violence, the judge added, quoting from Verdi's "Otello." In the opera, the evil character Iago tries to justify his malevolence, singing, "Credo in un Dio crudel."The judge is a huge opera fan, but the meaning of Iago's words was lost on no one in that courtroom: "I believe in a cruel God.""Surely someone who believes that God smiles on and rewards the deliberate killing and maiming of innocents believes in a cruel God," O'Toole said. "That is not, it cannot be, the God of Islam. Anyone who has been led to believe otherwise has been maliciously and willfully deceived."Those are the words I carry away from this trial.