CNN Senior Photojournalist David Rust has worked with the network since its inception in 1980. He has covered stories in all 50 states and all seven continents.(CNN) Soon after I started at CNN, I became aware that my job was going to place me right at the epicenter of where history was being made. Not all assignments were epic, but most were, at the very least, interesting.I grew up with a passion for history, and so I decided to try to save some type of memento from the more historically significant stories.Today, I have a house that my wife thinks should be featured on the show "Hoarders."My collection includes an armored car, a live microwave van, a portable uplink, cameras and other technical items. I have collected paper scripts, photos and other news related memorabilia. I am constantly trying to add to and upgrade the items I have. The following items are just a sample of what is contained in my collection:The first Gulf War (1990-1991):During the first Gulf War, I traveled to Baghdad and provided 40 days and nights of live coverage before being asked to leave the city. I spent most of the rest of the year traveling to and from Iraq to cover the aftermath of the conflict. We stayed at the Al Rasheed Hotel, which was across the street from the government conference center. It was a favorite target for allied bombers.After the nightly attacks I would get up early in the morning and scout the grounds of the hotel looking for missile debris resulting from the blasts across the street. I was surprised to find a lens from one of the missiles. Before leaving Baghdad, I took my largest piece of cruise missile skin and had it signed by the CNN staff that worked in the Iraqi capital during the war.On one occasion, the coalition bombers targeted an air raid shelter thought to be a command and control center. It turned out to be a shelter used by high-ranking military members to keep their families safe during the conflict. Satellite images used by military intelligence to identify the target documented military vehicles at the shelter both in the morning and the early evenings. In actuality it was high-ranking military personal dropping their families off at night and picking them up in the morning, transporting them in Iraqi military vehicles.The U.S. Air Force sent two F-117 Nighthawk stealth fighters to deliver two laser guided 2000-pound bombs through the roof of the shelter. Just after the shelter was hit, we were awakened by our "minders" at the hotel and escorted to the shelter. When I arrived, there was a large crowd of civilians around the burning building. They first showed us some of the bodies that had been recovered from inside the building, and then they grabbed me and started pushing me inside the shelter. I was able to make my way in the smoke and the dark to where firefighters were trying to put out the fire.I got the shots, then headed to the shelter roof to shoot a standup with our reporter, Peter Arnett. While on the roof I saw that it had been painted with green paint to help camouflage it from any hostile aircraft. I found a loose chunk of the cement covered in green paint and kept it to document the story.There was also a controversial bombing of a baby milk factory just as the war began. The factory contained machines that were supposedly capable of producing biological weapons. When we toured I found nothing but packaged baby milk. After the war there were reports that biological weapons were produced in another area of Iraq. While doing a show for the first anniversary of the war I was allowed to go up to the ninth floor of the Al Rasheed Hotel to what was the CNN workspace on the first night of the bombing. Journalists had been kicked out of the upper floors of the hotel after the war began. All the equipment was gone, but the wire that was attached to the famous four-wire box was trapped under a locked door. I retrieved the cable and added it to the collection.War in Bosnia (1992-1995):From 1992 to 1995, I spent more time in Bosnia than I did at home. Working mostly with Christiane Amanpour, I traveled all over the region working on every side of the conflict.The breakup of the former Yugoslavia took an unusually high toll among journalists. To reduce risk to crews reporting on the conflict, media companies invested in armored cars. CNN purchased an armored Land Rover that was previously used by the Royal Ulster Constabulary in Northern Ireland.While in Bosnia, our vehicle took at least nine sniper rounds and once was strafed by a 50-caliber machine gun. Snipers impacted two of the bullet-resistant windows. I saved the damaged windows after replacing them with new ones. I also acquired the green coat Christiane wore in most of her standups during the war.David Rust stands in front of the armored vehicle's damaged window.Near the end of the conflict, during a period of intensive ethnic cleansing, I came across a house that had been ransacked and all of the family belongings were strewn in the yard. One item stood out -- a numbered jersey from the 1984 Olympics in Sarajevo. I had the item cleaned and have been trying to find its owner ever since.Rodney King trial verdict (1992):During the last day of jury deliberation in the Rodney King trial, I was working the early shift waiting for a verdict. I left the Simi Valley courthouse to go home just before the jury announced they had reached a decision. I called into the assignment desk and they re-routed me to Parker Center, the headquarters for the Los Angeles Police Department.After the verdict was announced at the courthouse, the LAPD held a press conference at its headquarters. As soon as that was over, I drove my personal car to a church where a mass community meeting was scheduled. I parked my car and then joined the rest of my crew who arrived in a CNN news van.We set up to go live with the meeting, but just as it started, the organizers told us to leave as fast as we could. Rioting had started in the area, and it was no longer safe to be at the church.The satellite truck operators cut all the cables and immediately drove away. I got into the news van and started to cover the looting. As soon as we hit the streets we were pelted with cans and rocks. It got very ugly, very quickly.I called the assignment desk again, and they told me to check out activity at the intersection of Florence and Normandie Avenues. We had no idea how volatile that location had been. Two passing motorists had been pulled from their cars and nearly beaten to death earlier in the day.When I arrived, there were no police, only a few bystanders, and every corner of the intersection was on fire. I got out of my van, set up my tripod and began to videotape the carnage. I remember a small boy doing figure eights on his bike while the surrounding buildings burned. I got the pictures I needed, and then continued on down the road.I stopped again at a mini-mall that was being looted. I was shooting the scene from the front passenger's seat of the van. As I looked through the viewfinder, I saw a rioter throw a baseball bat at the van. I saw it hit the side of the van. A split second later, another bat bounced off the window frame in front of me and landed inside our vehicle.A crowd started toward our van, so we decided to drive away. As we accelerated, I heard a gunshot and saw the flash in my viewfinder. We left the area, but I was able to keep the wooden bat with gang graffiti carved into the side. At the end of the day I returned to pick up my personal car and discovered the rear window had been smashed during the night.Cuba (1995):I traveled to Cuba for a documentary in 1995. I went with Hank Aaron, a now retired American Major League baseball player, and the topic of the documentary was baseball in Cuba. We followed Cuban baseball players from the youth leagues all the way to the national team.Aaron brought bats and balls that were in the Atlanta Braves clubhouse during the recently completed World Series. Baseballs were difficult to get in Cuba, and Aaron gave them out to the ball players along with the bats.At the end of the trip President Fidel Castro invited our group to dinner at the Presidential Palace. Thanks to Aaron, I receive a signed baseball from the Cuban President along with a Cohiba cigar.Rust meets Fidel Castro while on assignment in 1995.Oklahoma City Bombing (1995):I was in Ohio gathering material for a story on the 25th anniversary of the shooting of four students at Kent State University when I got word that the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building had been bombed in Oklahoma City.With the large loss of life and the vast amount of damage caused by the blast, I returned to Atlanta then headed directly to Oklahoma.I spent most of my time providing live coverage of the rescues and then community reaction. While shooting at the base of the devastated building, I picked up a small piece of the building and some police tape that lay at the site of the blast.Later, another crew found the location in Arizona where Timothy McVeigh had blown up a car as a practice run for the bombing. The reporter brought me back some of the debris from that explosion.Eventually, I traded a CNN shirt for a T-shirt worn by a member of the Oklahoma City Fire Department during rescues at the federal building. Later, I obtained a fire department helmet signed by individuals from the fire department who aided in rescues after the bombing.SCICEX (April 1999):In April 1999, I was given a dream assignment. I was asked to take a seven-day trip, under the Arctic ice cap, in a Fast-Attack nuclear powered submarine. Scientists on the USS Hawkbill were attempting to map the ocean floor below the ice-covered Arctic Ocean.While documenting life on board the Navy submarine, I was able experience eating, sleeping and working in a very unique environment. It was the Hawkbill's last voyage before being decommissioned. After finishing its voyage and returning to Pearl Harbor for decommissioning, the crew sailed to Bremerton, Washington, where the fast-attack submarine was destined to be recycled.Shortly after, I received a few items to help document my voyage, including an emergency lamp, a piece of the hull and signal flag used onboard the Hawkbill.9/11 World Trade Center Attacks (2001):I was in my doctor's office in Atlanta when the first plane hit the World Trade Center Tower. I was having blood tests run so I could get medically qualified to make a trip to the South Pole.My doctor was a news junkie and was watching the news coverage when the second aircraft hit the tower. After the second impact, I knew I needed to return to work. As soon as I got to CNN, I was told to load up my vehicle and head to New York City.I was at Ground Zero by 3 a.m., doing live shots for CNN. While covering the aftermath of the destruction I grabbed a piece of paper that had been burned around the edges and floated down from where the towers had once been.I also shot video from a Coast Guard helicopter above Ground Zero.We took off, flew past the Statue of Liberty and headed directly for the World Trade Center location. I am not sure what I was expecting but the vast size and total destruction of the area that used to be the World Trade Center Towers was beyond description. We circled the smoking ruins four times at slightly different heights before leaving the area.Even though the footage was a CNN exclusive, other media outlets wanted it to be pooled since it was shot from the Coast Guard helicopter. As a public service, CNN agreed to release the footage to all other news outlets. After our flight, the air space over the site was closed, and our video was the only television footage from that view.Post-9/11 Afghanistan (2001):I arrived in Afghanistan prior to deployment of U.S. troops. I went in a convoy of journalists traveling over the Khyber Pass from Pakistan.The morning after I arrived, my team went to the White Mountains to investigate one of Osama bin Laden's training camps. While we were doing the story, four of the international journalists who traveled into Afghanistan with us were killed in an ambush on their way to Kabul.We came back to Jalalabad to assess the situation. We helped collect the bodies of the slain journalists and escorted them back to Pakistan.After regrouping in Islamabad, we returned to Afghanistan where we traveled throughout the country, spending the majority of time in Jalalabad, Kabul, and Tora Bora.Rust spent a lot of time in Afghanistan following the September 11 attacks.I later acquired an old Russian artillery shell and had local artisans engrave it with all the locations we worked in during that year. Along the way, I was given a leather strap that was used by the Taliban Minister of Vice and Virtue to discipline citizens who didn't follow the established dress codes. I also saved a bin Laden "wanted poster" put out by the U.S. government.Iraq War (2003):This time around, I was embedded with U.S. Special Forces troops and drove with them from Basra to Baghdad. Once in Baghdad I embedded with an armored unit and followed them when they moved to a location just outside Fallujah.Most of the remainder of my time in Iraq was spent once again in Baghdad. While working in the capital, I stayed in the Palestine Hotel in the heart of the city. Early one morning, just as I was getting up for work, a rocket hit the hotel room next to mine, destroying the entire contents of the room.It came from a donkey cart that had been loaded with a Katyusha multiple rocket launcher. Seven of the rockets hit buildings in and around our hotel.Our security team searched the area to determine the type of rockets and collected a box filled with remnants of the rockets. The armored unit I embedded with presented me with the base of one of the shells they fired as they entered Baghdad during the first stages of the war.They also went to the Al Rasheed Hotel and broke up the tiled picture of President George H.W. Bush that was on the floor of the entryway to the hotel. People would have to walk on the President's face to enter the hotel. I was given several pieces of the tile after the picture was destroyed.Antarctica -- the South Pole (2002):After working near the North Pole in 1999, I coordinated with the same producer to pitch a story at the South Pole. The documentary unit gave a green light to the project, and in January 2002 we traveled to the coldest, driest, windiest and most remote continent on Earth.While doing research for the story, I discovered some letters that had been sent from Antarctica during the Byrd Expedition in the mid-1930s. I acquired the envelopes and brought them back to the South Pole to donate them to the Pole's archives.I was rewarded for my donation with a gift from the crew building a new base at the South Pole. They had unearthed an old parachute that was used in dropping supplies for building the original base during Operation Deep Freeze in 1955-56. They actually gave me a piece of the parachute to add to my collection of news memorabilia.I also collected a sample of 3000-year-old ice that I was able to keep frozen all the way back to Atlanta. Unfortunately, I forgot to mention the ice to my wife. While I was on the road to another story she opened our freezer took out the ice and used it to keep sandwiches cold for my daughter's driving trip from Atlanta to Washington. That's one memento that got away.Rust tried (unsuccessfully) to save a piece of 3000-year-old ice from the South Pole.Katrina (2005):As Hurricane Katrina was nearing landfall in Louisiana, I was in Egypt shooting a documentary on democracy in the Middle East. Before coming ashore, the storm had intensified into a Category 5 hurricane. I was relieved when I heard reports that it was downgraded into a Category 3 storm as it made landfall in southeastern Louisiana. My relief was short lived as news of storm surge and broken levees started to appear.With the death toll rising, we were diverted from Egypt and sent to New Orleans.The damage was overwhelming. I spent months in and around the Gulf Coast covering the havoc caused by Katrina. While working with John King in the Lower Ninth Ward, we focused on the collapsed levee that allowed water to flood the area.After wading in knee-deep water during a live shot, King held up a piece of the levee that had failed. I kept the chunk of cement, as an example of engineering that was unable to hold up to forces of nature.I also saved cans of water provided by a national brewery and MREs (meals-ready-to-eat) that were distributed to the storm's survivors for weeks after Katrina hit.Later, I was able to locate a life vest that was used by the Coast Guard during one of their many rescue operations.