(CNN) TSA screeners fail miserably on a test. Hundreds are feared dead after a Chinese ship sinks. And say hello to Caitlyn Jenner.It's Tuesday, and here are five things to know for your New Day:CAITLYN JENNERShe pretty much broke the Internet yesterday after Vanity Fair tweeted its latest cover, featuring the former Bruce Jenner all glammed up in sexy hair and makeup and wearing a white corset. Jenner's new Twitter account -- @Caitlyn_Jenner -- raked up about 1.8 million followers in just a few hours. That's gotta be some kind of record . What's up next for Caitlyn? An eight-part series on her transition on E! starting July 26.TSAEpic fail: TSA screeners will stop you from bringing more than 3.4 ounces of liquid on a plane, but apparently you'll have no trouble getting explosives by them. That's what undercover teams from the Department of Homeland Security learned when : TSA screeners will stop you from bringing more than 3.4 ounces of liquid on a plane, but apparently you'll have no trouble getting explosives by them. That's what undercover teams from the Department of Homeland Security learned when they tested airport screeners at dozens of airports. Banned items -- like explosives and weapons -- got through the screening process in 67 out of 70 tests conducted. Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson says he's told TSA to make some changes, but he won't say what they are.JUST WATCHED TSA failed 95% of airport security tests Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH TSA failed 95% of airport security tests 01:43SHIP SINKINGTrapped survivors?: Rescue workers say they've heard sounds from within the Rescue workers say they've heard sounds from within the passenger ship that sank in China's Yangtze River yesterday. Some 458 people were believed aboard the vessel, and rescuers are racing to reach people who may be trapped in the cabin. As of this morning, only about a dozen people had been rescued and five bodies had been recovered.JUST WATCHED Ship carrying 458 people sinks in Yangtze River Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ship carrying 458 people sinks in Yangtze River 02:10CAMPAIGN 2016Lindsey's in: South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham became the South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham became the ninth Republican to jump into the 2016 presidential race. Doesn't look like he stands much of a chance at this point, but he's hoping his hawkish stance on foreign affairs will carry him through. If that doesn't work, he can always lean on this little nugget: if he were elected he'd be America's first bachelor president in 130 years. Now that's one way to stand out from the pack.JUST WATCHED Who is Lindsey Graham? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Lindsey Graham? 02:09ISISNew poll: The fight against ISIS is about as popular as the Iraq War. That's what a The fight against ISIS is about as popular as the Iraq War. That's what a new CNN/ORC poll released yesterday found. Around 61% of Americans say the whole thing is going badly (a percentage similar to the number of Americans who had soured on the Iraq War before the surge in 2007). And the nation is split on which president to blame for the mess in Iraq: 44% blame Barack Obama; 43% blame George Bush.JUST WATCHED ISIS expanding its territory at an alarming rate Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH ISIS expanding its territory at an alarming rate 01:44Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Just do it!: Dreams don't have a chance to die around Shia LeBeouf. Watch him give the greatest TED Talk ever.Jingle jams: Someone got really bored and mashed up 25 of the most recognizable commercial jingles.Helping hand: A family of elephants rushes to aid a calf who collapsed in the road. Touching.Makin' whoopee: And finally, we proudly present the world's largest whoopee cushion.