(CNN) Gilbert Baker was overwhelmed when he saw the White House lit up like a rainbow."I thought, 'I don't have to worry about making the rainbow flag a success anymore.'"The creator of the multicolored banner marveled as nearly 30 million people on Facebook turned their profile photos into rainbows. Niagara Falls, the Empire State Building and bridges and city halls across the nation celebrated the rainbow, too.Baker, 64, wept in San Francisco when news broke Friday of the Supreme Court's historic decision to allow same-sex marriage in all 50 states."It was very emotional," he says, "I cried. We've been working on this for decades. It was more than a relief. It was transformative."Baker's life story, like that of the gay rights movement, is one of resilience and transformation. Of being ostracized and bullied as a boy in small-town Kansas. Of struggling with suicidal thoughts. Of becoming a medic in the U.S. Army before officially coming out to his parents on Christmas."I came out because I fell in love," he says. "It wasn't a terrible, horrible, damn thing. I was in love with somebody, and I wanted to scream it from the rooftops."Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Carlos McKnight of Washington waves a flag in support of same-sex marriage outside the U.S. Supreme Court on June 26, 2015. The Supreme Court ruled 5-4 that states cannot ban same-sex marriage, handing gay rights advocates their biggest victory yet. See photos from states that approved same-sex marriage before the nationwide ruling: Hide Caption 1 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Shante Wolfe, left, and Tori Sisson become the first same-sex couple to file their marriage license in Montgomery, Alabama, on February 9, 2015. However, seven months after the U.S. Supreme Court ruling legalizing such nuptials nationwide, Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore directed probate judges in his state to enforce the ban on same-sex marriage. Gay rights organizations swiftly denounced Moore's January 6, 2016, order. Hide Caption 2 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Newlyweds Jeff Delmay and Todd Delmay hug during a marriage ceremony in a Miami courtroom January 5, 2015. Florida began allowing same-sex marriages after a federal judge struck down the state's ban. Hide Caption 3 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Chad Biggs, left, and Chris Creech say their wedding vows at the Wake County Courthouse in Raleigh, North Carolina, on October 10, 2014, after a federal judge ruled that same-sex marriage can begin in the state. Hide Caption 4 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Joshua Gunter, right, and Bryan Shields attend a Las Vegas rally to celebrate an appeals court ruling that overturned Nevada's same-sex marriage ban on October 7, 2014. Hide Caption 5 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. From left, plaintiffs Moudi Sbeity; his partner, Derek Kitchen; Kody Partridge; and Partridge's wife, Laurie Wood, celebrate after a news conference in Salt Lake City on October 6, 2014. The U.S. Supreme Court cleared the way for same-sex marriage in Utah when it declined to hear the state's appeal of a lower court ruling. Hide Caption 6 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Abbi Huber, left, and Talia Frolkis exit the City County Building in Madison, Wisconsin, after applying for a marriage license on October 6, 2014. Hide Caption 7 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Rob MacPherson, right, and his husband, Steven Stolen, hug during a news conference at the American Civil Liberties Union in Indianapolis on October 6, 2014. Hide Caption 8 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Mary Bishop, second from left, and Sharon Baldwin, right, celebrate with family and friends following their wedding ceremony on the courthouse steps in Tulsa, Oklahoma, on October 6, 2014. Hide Caption 9 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Jennifer Melsop, left, and Erika Turner kiss after they were married in front of the Arlington County Courthouse in Arlington, Virginia, on October 6, 2014. Hide Caption 10 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Pastor Carol Hill from Epworth United Methodist Church speaks during a marriage-equality ceremony at the Kathy Osterman Beach in Chicago on June 1, 2014. The date marked the first day that all of Illinois' 102 counties could begin issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples. Hide Caption 11 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. William Roletter, left, and Paul Rowe get close after having their photo taken with their marriage certificate May 21, 2014, at Philadelphia City Hall. Hide Caption 12 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Julie Engbloom, left, and Laurie Brown embrace after marrying in Portland, Oregon, on May 19, 2014. A federal judge struck down the state's voter-approved ban on same-sex marriage. Hide Caption 13 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Jennifer Rambo, right, kisses her Kristin Seaton after their marriage ceremony in front of the Carroll County Courthouse in Eureka Springs, Arkansas, on May 10, 2014. Rambo and Seaton were the first same-sex couple to be granted a marriage license in Eureka Springs after a judge overturned Amendment 83, which banned same-sex marriage in Arkansas. Hide Caption 14 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Same-sex couples get their marriage licenses at the Oakland County Courthouse in Pontiac, Michigan, on March 22, 2014, a day after a federal judge overturned Michigan's ban on same-sex marriage. Hide Caption 15 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. On November 13, 2013, Hawaii Gov. Neil Abercrombie, left, and former state Sen. Avery Chumbley celebrate with a copy of the Honolulu Star-Advertiser after Abercrombie signed a bill legalizing same-sex marriage in the state. Hide Caption 16 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Utah state Sen. Jim Dabakis, left, and Stephen Justesen acknowledge the crowd after being married in Salt Lake City in December 20, 2013. Hide Caption 17 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Plaintiffs Laurie Wood, left, and Kody Partridge, center, walk with attorney Peggy Tomsic on December 4, 2013, after a judge heard arguments challenging Utah's same-sex marriage ban. Hide Caption 18 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. On October 21, 2013, Cory Booker, right, officiates a wedding ceremony for Joseph Panessidi, center, and Orville Bell at the Newark, New Jersey, City Hall. The New Jersey Supreme Court denied the state's request to prevent same-sex marriages temporarily, clearing the way for same-sex couples to marry. Hide Caption 19 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. A couple celebrates at San Francisco City Hall upon hearing about the U.S. Supreme Court rulings on same-sex marriage on June 26, 2013. The high court cleared the way for same-sex couples in California to resume marrying after dismissing an appeal on Proposition 8 on jurisdictional grounds. The court also struck down a key part of the Defense of Marriage Act, a 1996 federal law defining marriage as between a man and a woman. Hide Caption 20 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. At the state Capitol in St. Paul, Minnesota, Gov. Mark Dayton signs a bill legalizing same-sex marriage on May 14, 2013. Hide Caption 21 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Delaware Gov. Jack Markell holds up legislation on May 7, 2013, allowing same-sex couples to wed in the state. Hide Caption 22 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Rhode Island state Sen. Donna Nesselbush, right, embraces a supporter after the Marriage Equality Act was signed into law at the statehouse in Providence on May 2, 2013. Hide Caption 23 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Jamous Lizotte, right, and Steven Jones pose for photos while waiting for a marriage license in Portland, Maine, on December 29, 2012. Hide Caption 24 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. On March 1, 2012, Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley, center, shakes hands with Senate President Thomas V. "Mike" Miller after signing a same-sex marriage bill. The law was challenged, but voters approved marriage equality in a November 2012 referendum. Hide Caption 25 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. On February 13, 2012, Washington Gov. Chris Gregoire celebrates after signing marriage-equality legislation into law. Voters there approved same-sex marriage in November 2012, defeating a challenge by opponents. Hide Caption 26 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Phyllis Siegel, right, kisses her wife, Connie Kopelov, after exchanging vows at the Manhattan City Clerk's office on July 24, 2011, the first day New York's Marriage Equality Act went into effect. Hide Caption 27 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. On August 21, 2010, TV reporter Roby Chavez, right, shares a moment with gay rights activist Frank Kameny during Chavez and Chris Roe's wedding ceremony in the nation's capital. Same-sex marriage became legal in Washington in March 2010. Hide Caption 28 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Olin Burkhart, left, and Carl Burkhart kiss on the steps of the New Hampshire Capitol on January 1, 2010, after the state's law allowing same-sex marriage went into effect. Hide Caption 29 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. In May 2009, Maine state Sen. Dennis Damon, left, hands Gov. John Baldacci the bill that the state Senate passed to affirm the right of same-sex couples to marry. Hide Caption 30 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Amy Klein-Matheny, left, and her wife, Jennifer, exchange vows in Iowa after same-sex couples were allowed to marry there with an April 3, 2009, court ruling. Hide Caption 31 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Michael Miller, left, and Ross Zachs marry on the West Hartford Town Hall steps after same-sex marriage became legal in Connecticut on November 12, 2008. Hide Caption 32 of 33 Photos: Same-sex marriage in the U.S. Lara Ramsey, left, and Jane Lohmann play with their 7-month-old son, Wyatt Ramsey-Lohmann. The two wed in 2004 after Massachusetts approved same-sex marriage. Massachusetts was the first state to do so. Hide Caption 33 of 33It would take another three decades, he says, before he and his parents would reach "some kind of loving place" in their relationship. His father died four years ago; his mother is still living."When I was young, they thought I was from outer space," he says. "I was the only gay person they probably knew, and they struggled with that. Everybody knew I was gay. They just didn't want to talk about it."The rainbow flag came about in the 1970s. The gay and lesbian community wanted a symbol beyond the pink triangle -- the symbol Nazis had put on gays. The gay community had used the symbol as a source of empowerment but was looking for something completely new, a symbol that didn't have such an awful history.Baker had landed in San Francisco as an Army draftee around 1970. He served as a medic at an orthopedic hospital in the Bay area where Vietnam veterans underwent skin grafts and amputations. He was eventually given an honorable discharge without being sent to Vietnam."I certainly saw up close my share of the horror," he says of tending to the wounded. "It profoundly changed my ideas about politics, about war."He decided to stay in San Francisco and became immersed in the gay community. As he puts it, "I had to find my own, gay family."Baker became friends with Harvey Milk, the first openly gay person to be elected to public office in California. Milk served on the city's board of supervisors, and they talked often about needing a new symbol. Milk urged the creative Kansan to develop a design.Baker drew inspiration from the American flag. The nation was celebrating its bicentennial in 1976 and he saw the flag "being put on everything," from shirts to front porches.JUST WATCHED Celebration and pride on the steps of the Supreme Court Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH"It really put the seed in my head. I was like: 'Wait a minute, we are a global tribe, and a flag really fits our mission.'"He got to work, designing, sewing and stitching in San Francisco's gay community center. The original design had eight stripes: pink stood for sex, red for life, orange for healing, yellow for the sun, green for nature, turquoise for magic, blue for harmony and purple for spirit.The first flag was 30 by 60 feet and flew on Gay Pride Day on June 25, 1978, in the United Nations Plaza in San Francisco, a spot he and other community members chose to acknowledge "it's a global struggle.""When it went up and the wind finally took it out of my hands, it blew my mind."It was hypnotic, magical even. He soaked in the moment for a few minutes. "I saw immediately how everyone around me owned that flag," Baker says. "I thought: It's better than I ever dreamed."Hundreds of thousands of people passed the flag that day, "and they knew it was our new symbol. That was a day that changed my life forever. I knew that was going to be the most important thing I ever did."He was just 27.The next year, he dropped two of the colors to mass produce the flag. Pink was too expensive to make in mass quantities, and he thought it best to go with an even six colors.Today, the flag -- with its red, orange, yellow, green, blue and purple stripes -- has stood the test of time."We needed something to express our joy, our beauty, our power. And the rainbow did that," Baker says. "We're an ancient, wonderful tribe of people. We picked something from nature. We picked something beautiful."How do you argue with that? People want to argue about it, but I say: 'The rainbow's in the Bible. It's a covenant between God and all living creatures.'"He knows the struggle of gays and lesbians. He lived it at a time when his sexuality could have landed him in jail or mental institutions. He lost half his friends in a single year in the 1980s to AIDS. His friend Harvey Milk was assassinated along with San Francisco Mayor George Moscone just five months after that first flag was unfurled.Baker encourages gay youth to not be afraid to come out of the closet."You can live in this light of the truth. It's totally liberating," Baker says. "You don't have to live a lie. Living a lie will mess you up. It will send you into depression. It will warp your values."He adds, "My message would be: Don't give up hope. It does get better."It is through that prism that the renowned flag maker sees last week's events. He was at a pride party when someone approached him and asked if he'd seen the White House lit up. Baker had not. When Baker saw what he calls his favorite house lit in the colors he chose that helped define a movement, he said simply:"Oh my God."When he saw the viral editorial cartoon depicting the Confederate flag coming down and the rainbow flag rising, the drag queen who goes by the name "Busty Ross" took particular pride."The rainbow flag is beautiful because it's about love," he says. "The Confederate flag is ugly because it's about hate. It's pretty simple from the art level: beautiful versus ugly."Baker has designed many other flags over the years, for the Democratic National Convention, for the Super Bowl, and for heads of state -- from the premier of China to the president of Venezuela to the king of Spain.Will the recent Supreme Court decision lead to good tidings in his life?He and his best friend have known each other for the last 21 years and "love each other deeply.""I don't know if I'm the marrying kind," Baker says. "I think I'll drive somebody crazy. Maybe it's better to just stay friends."At least now he has that choice anywhere in the United States.