(CNN) Dylann Roof heard words of forgiveness from families of some of the nine people he's accused of killing.His response: A blank expression.Wearing a striped inmate jumpsuit, the 21-year-old appeared Friday afternoon by video feed at a bond hearing in Charleston, South Carolina. He stood motionless while listening to the anguished words of relatives of victims he gunned down Wednesday night at a Bible study at the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church"I will never be able to hold her again, but I forgive you," a daughter of Ethel Lance said. "And have mercy on your soul. You hurt me. You hurt a lot of people but God forgives you, and I forgive you."Felicia Sanders -- mother of victim Tywanza Sanders and a survivor of the church shooting herself -- said that "every fiber in my body hurts, and I will never be the same.""As we said in the Bible study, we enjoyed you," she said of Roof. "But may God have mercy on you."The families got the attention of President Obama, who tweeted: "In the midst of darkest tragedy, the decency and goodness of the American people shines through in these families."In the midst of darkest tragedy, the decency and goodness of the American people shines through in these families. https://t.co/aYtAKrWwCY — President Obama (@POTUS) June 19, 2015JUST WATCHED Charleston victim's relative: I forgive you Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Charleston victim's relative: I forgive you 00:33Roof's family spoke out for the first time Friday, extending its "deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims," according to a statement issued by his public defender."Words cannot express our shock, grief and disbelief as to what happened that night. We are devastated and saddened by what occurred. We offer our prayers sympathy for all of those impacted by these events," the statement says. It ends asking for privacy for the Roof family.Roof barely spoke at the hearing, answering the judge's questions about his unemployment with a "yes, sir" and "no, sir" and stating his age as 21. The video feed meant Roof could hear, but not see, people in the courtroom, according to court employees. People in the courtroom could see and hear Roof.Magistrate James B. Gosnell Jr. drew fire on social media by opening the hearing by expressing sympathy for Roof's family.He spoke about how Charleston would embrace all the crime victims and said: "There are victims on this young man's side of the family. Nobody would have ever thrown them into the whirlwind of events that they were thrown into. ... We must find it in our hearts at some point in time to not only help those who are victims but to help his family as well."Tweeted Desiree P. Urquhart @CBMaiden, "Magistrate James Gosnell Jr is an example of white southern bigotry, ignorant pontification & a good ole boy's entitlement to say anything."Magistrate James Gosnell Jr is an example of white southern bigotry, ignorant pontification & a good ole boy's entitlement to say anything. — Desiree P. Urquhart (@CBMaiden) June 19, 2015Elizabeth Bradbury @isabellabc tweeted, "For those who don't understand why blacks in America are still angry just watch Judge Gosnell's lecture to the court at Roof's hearing."For those who don't understand why blacks in America are still angry just watch Judge Gosnell's lecture to the court at Roof's hearing. — Elizabeth Bradbury (@isabellabc) June 19, 2015Gosnell set bail at $1 million on a weapons possession charge. A circuit judge will hold a bond hearing later on the nine murder charges, but it's unlikely Roof will be allowed to leave jail.The suspect actually is being held in the North Charleston jail. Authorities didn't want him to appear at the bond hearing in person for security reasons.Roof also may be prosecuted by federal authorities if it's determined he committed a hate crime. The Justice Department issued a statement Friday saying, "This heartbreaking episode was undoubtedly designed to strike fear and terror into this community, and the department is looking at this crime from all angles, including as a hate crime and as an act of domestic terrorism."Roof admits he did it, sources sayRoof admits he shot and killed the people he'd sat with for Bible study at the historically black church, two law enforcement officials said.But why? To start a race war.That's what Roof told investigators, according to one of the officials.A moment of prayer #CharlestonShooting #CNN A photo posted by Catherine Shoichet (@catherinecnn) on Jun 18, 2015 at 5:00pm PDTCNN's Evan Perez and Wesley Bruer were the first to report Roof's confession. Others earlier gave a glimpse into the twisted motivation -- including at the time and site of the shooting.There, a survivor told Sylvia Johnson that Roof answered one man's pleas to stop by saying, "No, you've raped our women, and you are taking over the country ... I have to do what I have to do."CNN Charlotte affiliate WBTV, citing a source, says Roof told investigators in Shelby, North Carolina, where he was arrested, that he had researched the church and targeted it because it turned out to be a "historic African-American church."A friend recalled a drunken Roof ranting one night about his unspecified six-month plan "to do something crazy" in order "to start a race war." And the Berkeley County, South Carolina, government tweeted a picture of him in a jacket with flags from apartheid-era South Africa and nearby Rhodesia, a former British colony that was ruled by a white minority until it became independent in 1980.Photos: Charleston church shooting Photos: Charleston church shooting In this image from the video uplink from the detention center to the courtroom, Dylann Roof appears at a bond hearing June 19, 2015, in South Carolina. Roof is charged with nine counts of murder and firearms charges in the shooting deaths at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina on June 17. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Dylann Roof, the 21-year-old charged with murdering nine people in a church shooting on Wednesday, June 17, is escorted by police in Shelby, North Carolina, on Thursday, June 18. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Law enforcement officers in Charleston, South Carolina, stand guard near the scene of the shooting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting A police officer directs a police vehicle in front of the church on June 18. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Two law enforcement officials said Roof confessed. Roof said he wanted to start a race war, one of the officials said. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police in Charleston close off a section of Calhoun Street early on June 18, after the shooting. The steeple of the church is visible in the background. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Charleston police officers search for the shooting suspect outside the church on Wednesday, June 17. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting People in Charleston pray following the shooting on June 17. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting A woman joins a prayer circle on June 17. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting A man kneels across the street from where police gathered outside the church on June 17. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police gather at the scene of the shooting on June 17. The church was formed in 1816. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting People pray in a hotel parking lot across the street from the scene of the shooting on June 17. Every Wednesday evening, the church holds a Bible study in its basement. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting An armed police officer moves up Calhoun Street on June 17. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting People gather after the shooting. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police stand outside the church. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police close off a section of Calhoun Street near the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police in Charleston released this security-camera image that they say shows Roof entering the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. Hide Caption 17 of 17By telling authorities his aim, Roof admitted he attacked unarmed civilians for political purposes in an act of terror.What led the South Carolinian to adopt this reasoning and take such actions Wednesday night? Did anyone else help him or even know about his plans? And what is his general mental state? All are major, looming questions. Another is what American society should or will do now, if anything, to prevent similar tragedies.In the meantime, nine families are left to mourn and a community is left to come together, ideally, to heal."This hateful person came to this community with some crazy idea that he would be able to divide," Mayor Joseph Riley said. "And all he did was make us more united, and love each other even more."Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Thousands of people march on the Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge in Charleston, South Carolina, on Sunday, June 21. People crossed the bridge, which spans the Cooper River, from Mount Pleasant to Charleston, joining hands in a unity chain to mourn the Emanuel AME Church shooting. Police arrested Dylann Storm Roof in the slayings of nine people at a prayer meeting at the church. Hide Caption 1 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Protesters stand on the South Carolina State House steps during a rally to take down the Confederate flag, on Saturday, June 20, in Columbia. Hide Caption 2 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Louise Brown walks down King Street during a "Black Lives Matter" march on June 20 in Charleston, South Carolina. Hide Caption 3 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The men of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity lead a prayer outside Emanuel AME Church, Friday, June 19. Hide Caption 4 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Young people grieve outside Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, on June 19. Hide Caption 5 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Parishioners applaud during a memorial service on Thursday, June 18, at Morris Brown AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina. Hide Caption 6 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Olina Ortega, left, and Austin Gibbs light candles at a sidewalk memorial in front of Emanuel AME Church on June 18. Hide Caption 7 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The Rev. Jeannie Smalls becomes emotional during a prayer vigil held at Morris Brown AME Church on June 18. Hide Caption 8 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A woman places flowers outside the church on June 18. Hide Caption 9 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Mourners gather for a community prayer service at Second Presbyterian Church in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 10 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Walter Jackson, the son of Susie Jackson who died in the church shooting, recalls stories about his mother with his niece Cynthia Taylor at Jackson's home in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 11 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The Rev. Al Sharpton wipes away a tear after praying outside the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 12 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting People sit on the steps of Morris Brown AME Church in Charleston while services are held June 18. Hide Caption 13 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A woman wipes her eyes at a makeshift memorial near the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 14 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The Rev. Keith McDaniel, pastor of Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church, is surrounded by others in prayer on June 18 in Spartanburg, South Carolina. Hide Caption 15 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Tyler Francis, right, hugs Shondrey Dear after praying together June 18 at a makeshift memorial near the Emanuel AME Church. Hide Caption 16 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A group of women prays together at a makeshift memorial on the sidewalk in front of the Emanuel AME Church on June 18. Hide Caption 17 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting President Barack Obama, accompanied by Vice President Joe Biden, pauses while speaking in the Brady Press Briefing Room of the White House in Washington, June 18, on the church shooting in Charleston. Hide Caption 18 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Members of the U.S. Congress gather in front of the Capitol Building in Washington on June 18, during a moment of silence for the nine killed in a church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina. Hide Caption 19 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting South Carolina state Sen. Vincent Sheheen gets emotional on June 18 as he sits next to the draped desk of Sen. Clementa Pinckney at the statehouse in Columbia, South Carolina. Pinckney was one of the nine people killed in the church shooting. Hide Caption 20 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Charleston resident Noah Nicolaisen kneels at a makeshift memorial down the street from the church on June 18. Hide Caption 21 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Kim Hamby prays with her daughter Kayla as they lay flowers at a makeshift memorial in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 22 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A man leans against a light pole as he visits a memorial in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 23 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Chaplain James St. John leads senators in prayer June 18 at the statehouse in Columbia. Hide Caption 24 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Sandra Bridges lays a card at a memorial on June 18. Hide Caption 25 of 25Roof faces a long legal road ahead.It could end in his execution, assuming he's convicted and prosecutors seek (and are granted) such a death sentence, according to South Carolina law . Gov. Nikki Haley indicated that's what she wants, while Charleston's mayor -- while he doesn't support the death penalty personally -- thinks it's inevitable."If you're going to have a death penalty," Riley said, "then certainly this case will merit it."Friend: Roof wanted 'white with white, and black with black'How did Dylann Roof get to the point of being accused of one of the most hateful, violent race-related crimes in recent memory?His uncle, Carson Cowles, told the Washington Post that Roof's mother "never raised him to be like this." Those who knew him, though, paint a picture of someone who has long voiced racist sentiments, even if they never anticipated he'd act on them like this.John Mullins recalls "racist slurs in a sense" that Roof made while the two attended White Knoll High School in Lexington, South Carolina, though he also remembers him having black friends."He would say it just as a joke," Mullins told CNN. "I never took it seriously. But ... maybe (I) should have."JUST WATCHED Who is church shooter Dylann Roof? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is church shooter Dylann Roof? 02:37That sentiment was echoed by Joey Meek, who told CNN that he hadn't seen his old classmate for five years until the two became roommates about a month ago. He recalled Roof being quiet and keeping to himself since then, except for one night when he drank a liter of vodka and talked about his vague plans to start a race war."He wanted it to be white with white, and black with black," Meek said, adding that he took Roof's gun as a precaution that night only to put it back the next morning. "He had it in his mind, and he didn't really let nobody know (what he was going to do)."Meek said he told Roof then that he "didn't agree with his opinion at all," but he didn't talk to authorities until Thursday, when he noticed surveillance photos and called a police hotline."Dylann wasn't a serious person, no one took him serious," Meek said. "But if someone had taken him serious, this all would all have been avoided."Officials: Suspect bought gun in AprilIt's one thing to talk of stirring racial hatred, another to act on it to kill nine innocent people -- including the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, a state senator who had welcomed Roof into the Bible study session.One key part of this horrific scheme -- the weapon -- came in April, when Roof bought a .45-caliber handgun at a Charleston gun store, the two law enforcement officials told Perez and Bruer from CNN, the first network to report this development. His grandfather says that Roof was given "birthday money" and that the family didn't know what Roof did with it.JUST WATCHED New video shows church group moments before shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New video shows church group moments before shooting 01:15He apparently didn't hint at his intentions when he went to the historic church Wednesday. A Snapchat video shows him at a table with a small group, not anything to suggest the carnage to come.An arrest warrant says Roof entered the church at 8:06 p.m. wearing a fanny pack. "After approximately an hour of studying," the warrant says, "the defendant stood up and with malice and aforethought pulled out a handgun and began shooting at the parishioners inside the hall striking nine victims. All victims were hit multiple times."From what Johnson heard, Roof reloaded his gun five times. Six women died at the scene, as did two men -- with a third, the Rev. Daniel Simmons Sr., passing away later during surgery. Johnson said her friend played dead, lying in the blood of her slain son.Before Roof left the church, he asked one of the elderly members whether he had shot her, and she said no."And he said, 'Good, because we need a survivor because I'm going to kill myself,' " Johnson told CNN.Woman spotted, followed suspect's carRoof then took off, hopping into his car and heading north."I don't know what drew my attention to the car," Dills told CNN. "In my mind I'm thinking, 'That can't be.' ... I never dreamed that it would be the car."JUST WATCHED Woman who spotted shooting suspect: 'I was very nervous' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Woman who spotted shooting suspect: 'I was very nervous' 04:22She followed him more than 30 miles, keeping authorities updated along the way.Police in Shelby, North Carolina -- about 245 miles (395 kilometers) from Charleston -- pulled him over and took him into custody. He waived extradition and returned to South Carolina late Thursday.The Charleston Police Department also got help from Roof's family. The arrest warrant says: "The father and the uncle of the defendant contacted CPD and positively identified the defendant and his vehicle as those they saw in the photographs. Further, the defendant's father told investigators that his son owns a .45-caliber handgun."Federal authorities have opened a hate crime investigation into the shooting at the oldest AME church in the South, according to the U.S. Department of Justice.Charleston's mayor said that society should continue to talk about issues pertaining to race and try to educate people more, such as through an African-American history museum planned for a Charleston site where slaves used to land to be sold in the United States. But, he added, it may not be realistic to think you'll be able to change the minds of all racists."There's a lot of things we can do, in our country, to enhance the dialogue about race," Riley said. "But to get (hateful thoughts) out of the minds of very evil people ... is very difficult."