(CNN) Two murderers meticulously planned their New York state prison break, possibly sneaking out of their cells under the cover of darkness to rehearse their escape in tunnels, authorities said.Richard Matt and David Sweat planned to drive seven hours in the night to a predetermined location, together with the woman who allegedly helped them, said Clinton County District Attorney Andrew Wylie.But Joyce Mitchell, who allegedly provided them with the tools to cut through prison walls, got cold feet and decided not to pick them up, he said.Mitchell told investigators she planned to run off with the men after picking them up last week near a manhole where they'd emerge from a network of tunnels, Wylie said."They were going to meet down by the power plant, drive -- I'm not going to say into the sunset, because it was after midnight and it was dark out -- but they were going to drive, potentially to an area that was about seven hours away," Wylie said.But she backed out.DA: Convicts had a destination in mindMitchell told authorities that Matt and Sweat picked the destination.She did not say where the trio planned to head to after the two prisoners broke out of Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, officials said."That was the information that she was told by Matt and Sweat -- that it was about seven hours away," Wylie said.After her change of heart, she began cooperating with police."She did indicate one of the reasons why she didn't show up was because she did love her husband and she didn't want to do this to him," Wylie said.She is now sitting in jail, accused of aiding in the brazen prison escape. The two convicted killers she allegedly helped are free, but on the run.She pleaded not guilty Friday night to a felony charge of promoting prison contraband and a misdemeanor charge of criminal facilitation. Her next court appearance is Monday.If convicted, Mitchell faces up to eight years behind bars.Inmates saw them with cell phonesInterviews with prison inmates indicated that Matt and Sweat were seen with cell phones before they escaped, according to Wylie."But we have no proof of these cell phones," he said.Wylie said authorities have been in contact with relatives and friends of Matt and Sweat who live elsewhere in the United States, but all of them said they hadn't heard from the convicts since they broke out of their maximum-security cells.Joyce MitchellConvict made her feel 'special'Matt and Sweat were discovered missing on June 6 during a 5:30 a.m. bed check at Clinton Correctional Facility.While making their escape, they slipped through holes and cut into a steel plate and a steam pipe, then got out through the manhole and onto the street.Mitchell supplied them with hacksaw blades, chisels, a punch and a screwdriver bit, according to court records.In the weeks leading up to the escape, Wylie said, they may have been sneaking into the wall in the middle of the night to plan their escape route.And, he said, the manipulation of Mitchell may go as far back as 2013, when the trio met.Mitchell has told investigators that Matt made her feel "special," a source familiar with the investigation said.Her husband and prison co-worker, Lyle Mitchell, is also under investigation, but has not been arrested or charged, authorities said. He worked in the maintenance department at the tailoring block where his wife was employed, Wylie said.State Department of Corrections officials had received a complaint about the relationship between Joyce Mitchell and one of the two escapees. The department didn't find enough evidence to support the complaint, but that does not mean there was no relationship, Wylie said.Photos: Famous manhunts Photos: Famous manhunts Guards in an upstate New York prison found the cells of convicted murderers Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat empty during an early morning bed check on June 6, 2015. Three weeks later, Matt was shot and killed by police officers near the Canadian border. Sweat was captured in the same area two days later, ending a massive and costly manhunt. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts State troopers escort Eric Matthew Frein from the state police barracks in Blooming Grove, Pennsylvania, on October 31, 2014. Frein, who is accused of killing a Pennsylvania state trooper and wounding another, was found at an abandoned airport near Tannersville, Pennsylvania, authorities said. He had been on the run for nearly two months. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Edward Snowden, the man who leaked top-secret details about U.S. surveillance programs, has been charged with three felony counts, including violations of the U.S. Espionage Act. He left the United States and hid out in Hong Kong until WikiLeaks helped him move to Moscow, where he lived in an airport for about five weeks before being granted temporary asylum in Russia in August 2013. Snowden has said he is afraid he would not get a fair trial if he came back to the United States. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Convicted mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger spent more than a decade on the FBI's "Most Wanted" list before being arrested in June 2011 in Santa Monica, California. The jury in his federal racketeering trial found him guilty on 31 of 32 counts -- including involvement in 11 murders -- in August 2013. He is currently serving two consecutive life sentences in prison. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Eric Toth, a former private school teacher and camp counselor, was on the FBI's "Ten Most Wanted" fugitives list when he was captured in Nicaragua in April 2013. The investigation into the suspected child predator began in June 2008 after pornographic images of children were found on a school camera that had allegedly been in his possession. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Boston was on edge for days during a massive manhunt for the suspects responsible for the marathon bombings in April 2013. Finally, authorities apprehended Dzhokhar Tsarnaev after an overnight shootout with police that resulted in the death of his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev. A federal jury sentenced Tsarnaev to death in May 2015 for his involvement in the bombings that killed three and injured more than 260 people. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Former Los Angeles police officer Christopher Dorner, accused of killing four people, led police on a chase lasting days before he was tracked to a hideout in the San Bernardino Mountains. He took his own life in February 2013. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Ted Bundy raped and murdered dozens of women across the country in the 1970s. He escaped from prison twice but was captured after being stopped for driving a stolen car in 1978. He was executed in Florida in 1989. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts The FBI is still searching for Abdul Rahman Yasin, a suspect in the February 26, 1993, World Trade Center bombing that killed six and injured more than 1,000 people in New York. Six other suspects were convicted in the attack. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Eric Robert Rudolph -- who was convicted of a string of bombings, including one at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta -- eluded capture until 2003. He was arrested in Murphy, North Carolina, and is serving four consecutive life sentences plus 120 years. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Once a fixture on the FBI's "Most Wanted" list, al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed by U.S. Navy SEALs in an Abbottabad, Pakistan, compound on May 2, 2011. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Lovebird bandits Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow are believed to have committed 13 murders and several robberies and burglaries before they were ambushed and killed by police in 1934. Hide Caption 12 of 12Intensified searchMore than 800 state, local and federal law enforcement officers are searching for the escapees, New York State Police said. They have been following more than 700 leads developed in the weeklong manhunt.Sweat was serving a life sentence with no chance of parole for the murder of a Broome County sheriff's deputy in 2002. Matt was sentenced to 25 years to life for the kidnapping and murder of a man in 1997.The manhunt for the convicts has expanded in Plattsburgh, in upstate New York, where authorities have shut a portion of state Route 374.Tracking dogs picked up their scent last week at a gas station in the town, where authorities believe they were rummaging through trash at a sandwich shop.Wylie said earlier sightings have not led to any new clues.