(CNN) U.S. airstrikes kill another terrorist. The Supreme Court could hand down some big decisions today. And Jeb Bush is (finally) joining the presidential race.It's Monday, and here are five things to know for your New Day.WAR ON TERROR: Sounds like a U.S. airstrike early yesterday in North Africa killed a major terror figure . Mokhtar Belmokhtar, along with a group of others, was reportedly hit in Libya. He was behind a 2013 attack on a gas facility in Alergia where 37 hostages -- including three Americans -- were killed. Belmokhtar was also involved in kidnapping and smuggling operations in the region.JUST WATCHED Mokhtar Belmokhtar reportedly targeted in airstrike Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mokhtar Belmokhtar reportedly targeted in airstrike 01:18SUPREME COURTDecisions, decisions: Will a potentially landmark decision on same-sex marriage be handed down from the Supreme Court today? How about a ruling on Obamacare subsidies that could make or break the controversial law? With just a few weeks left in the term, the Supremes are once again saving their most anticipated rulings for last. Some opinions will be issued this morning, but only the court knows if any of those will involve the hot-button issues that everyone is waiting for.JUST WATCHED Fate of Obamacare resting on SCOTUS decision Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fate of Obamacare resting on SCOTUS decision 02:06CAMPAIGN 2016Jeb's in: We know it's hard to believe, but Jeb Bush isn't officially in the presidential race yet. He'll fix all of that today, when the former Florida governor We know it's hard to believe, but Jeb Bush isn't officially in the presidential race yet. He'll fix all of that today, when the former Florida governor kicks off his campaign with a rally in Miami. He released a video yesterday featuring a diverse slate of Floridians extolling the positives from his time as governor. He also released his campaign's logo, which consists of his first name, the year 2016 and a ginormous exclamation point.NEW YORK PRISON BREAKReversal of fortune: It's a little ironic when you think about it. Joyce Mitchell sits in jail while the prisoners she allegedly helped -- Richard Matt and David Sweat -- are still free and on the run. Mitchell will It's a little ironic when you think about it. Joyce Mitchell sits in jail while the prisoners she allegedly helped -- Richard Matt and David Sweat -- are still free and on the run. Mitchell will be in court today , after having been charged last week with helping the two convicted killers in their escape from an upstate New York prison. As for Matt and Sweat, there's been no solid sign of them despite the efforts of hundreds of law enforcement officials to find them.JUST WATCHED D.A.: Prison worker wanted to run off with fugitives Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH D.A.: Prison worker wanted to run off with fugitives 02:15PHILAEIt's alive!: Scientists and space geeks everywhere rejoiced this weekend when space probe Philae -- which landed on a comet last November and then lost communication with Earth -- Scientists and space geeks everywhere rejoiced this weekend when space probe Philae -- which landed on a comet last November and then lost communication with Earth -- "woke up" and began communicating again with the European Space Agency. The probe fell asleep because it wasn't getting enough sunlight where it landed, but now that it's awake, scientists will be able to monitor the comet it landed on as it approaches the sun in August.JUST WATCHED Philae lander regains power on comet Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Philae lander regains power on comet 06:01Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Sing along: "Family Guy" meets 80s pop when Stewie and Peter Griffin sing Cyndi Lauper's hits.Crushed apple: A $10,000 gold Apple Watch is crushed by magnets. Why? Just because, I guess.Rap lesson: Want to learn 23 different styles of rap music? Now's your chance.Hop on board: A Florida man snapped this photo of a raccoon chillin' atop a gator Sunday in Ocala National Forest.This picture of a raccoon on top of an alligator is an Internet sensation.Cuteness alert!: A little guy helps his baby sister learn how to walk. Adorable.