(CNN) The focus of the manhunt for two convicted killers who escaped from a maximum security prison in upstate New York more than two weeks ago has shifted yet again.The latest search area is Owls Head in Franklin County, an area roughly 20 to 25 miles west of the Clinton Correctional Facility, the prison from which Richard Matt and David Sweat broke out on June 6.By late Sunday, a command post had been set up in the area with ATVs.For much of the weekend, attention had been focused hundreds of miles to the southwest, near New York's border with Pennsylvania after a possible sighting of the two fugitives was reported Saturday.But that part of the search, in Allegany County, has now been wrapped up, New York police said late Sunday. Extra patrols are being maintained in the area as a precaution.A person had reported seeing two men along a railroad line Saturday in the town of Friendship in Allegany County, New York State Police said.While state police called the report an "unconfirmed sighting," a law enforcement source briefed on the prisoner investigation told CNN there was a credible sighting of Matt, 48, and Sweat, 35, near Friendship.About 300 law enforcement officers searched the area, Maj. Michael Cerretto of the New York State Police said Sunday afternoon at a press conference. Canine units and aircraft were used in the search, he said.A rifle in his lapThe sudden swarm of attention on Friendship bewildered the rural town of 2,000 people.Gary Baker, 80, said he was terrified of the possibility that the killers could be in the area.Normally, Baker is a caretaker at the town's Maple Grove Cemetery, right next to his home. But authorities blocked off the cemetery as search helicopters hovered overhead.Now, Baker sits alone in his home, with all his doors locked and a rifle in his lap."I think they're really serious that they've seen somebody," Baker said. "I just hope they catch them."515 am- sun rising- search for #escapedinmates continues. Active night, still no confirmed sign of Matt & Sweat @WKBW pic.twitter.com/kkxmeDsNAI — Ed Drantch (@EdDrantch) June 21, 2015NYS DEC ATVs have just arrived at Allegany command post. Equip for heavily wooded area. #eacapedinmates @WKBW pic.twitter.com/K5ufUl5ooF — Ed Drantch (@EdDrantch) June 21, 2015Emergency services radio traffic monitored by CNN indicated large numbers of police had moved into the area. At one point, responding officers were asked to maintain radio silence.Jenn Schanz, a reporter for CNN affiliate WIVB in Buffalo, tweeted that she was asked to leave the search area because state police said it was a "hot spot."State trooper just instructed us to leave East Maple Grove area, called it "hot spot." Chopper circling over bridge. — Jenn Schanz (@JennSchanz4) June 20, 2015Other possible sightingsAllegany County isn't the only area investigators have received tips from.Last weekend, witnesses reported seeing two suspicious men in Steuben County, about 45 miles east of Friendship, state police said."Witnesses spotted two men on June 13 walking near the Gang Mills railyard on Rita's Way in the town of Erwin," police said "The next day, two men with the same description were spotted walking along County Route 115 in the town of Lindley, heading toward the Pennsylvania border."JUST WATCHED Could tracks belong to the escaped killers? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Could tracks belong to the escaped killers? 01:11The unconfirmed sightings came from two separate people, police spokesman Beau Duffy said. State police have sent investigators to the areas to conduct interviews.On Saturday, police urged anyone living in the Allegany County area along the New York-Pennsylvania border to be on alert for Matt and Sweat, who many say have nothing to lose."Do not approach," officials warned. "Both are considered to be very dangerous."So dangerous, in fact, that the U.S. Marshals Service added Matt and Sweat to its list of the 15 most wanted fugitives . The list "is reserved for the worst of the worst," said U.S. Marshals Service Director Stacia Hylton. "There is no question David Sweat and Richard Matt fall into this category."A $75,000 reward is being offered for information leading to either man's capture.The U.S. Marshals Service has added Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat to its list of the 15 most wanted criminals.As many as 800 law enforcement officers have participated in the manhunt, which has cleared nearly 200 abandoned buildings, hundreds of occupied homes and more than 600 miles of rural trails, officials said."We're not going anywhere," New York State Police Maj. Charles Guess said. "Our plan is to pursue these men relentlessly until they are in custody."State police have asked hunters and homeowners with surveillance cameras to check their footage all the way back to the day of the prison break, for any unusual activity.The search has stretched to Canada and Mexico, with wanted posters of the escaped killers distributed at both borders.Relations with the prison tailorNew details have emerged about the relationships between the convicts and prison tailor shop instructor Joyce Mitchell, who has been charged with aiding in escape.Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat were on the run after they escaped from the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York, on Saturday, June 6. Matt was killed by police on Friday, June 26. Sweat was captured two days later and is now in police custody. Hide Caption 1 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Hide Caption 2 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Matt's body lies on the ground after he was killed by police on June 26. Hide Caption 3 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Sweat was captured on June 28, multiple law enforcement sources briefed on the investigation told CNN. He was shot twice in a field by a New York state trooper and taken into custody in upstate New York, close to the Canadian border. Hide Caption 4 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Sweat is bloodied, shirtless and cuffed at the ankles, and he appears to be breathing into an oxygen mask after his capture on June 28. Hide Caption 5 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Police escort ambulances from an area where law enforcement officers were searching for Sweat on June 28. Hide Caption 6 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officials are seen in the side-view mirror of a car as they stand guard June 28 in Duane, New York. Hide Caption 7 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners FBI agents conduct a search for Sweat near Duane on June 28. Hide Caption 8 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An FBI agent searches for Sweat on June 28. Hide Caption 9 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers man a roadblock in Malone, New York, on Saturday, June 27. Hide Caption 10 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers talk to motorists at a roadblock near Malone on June 27. Hide Caption 11 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers stand guard near the site where Matt was shot and killed in Malone on June 26. Hide Caption 12 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A New York State Police officer stands guard near the shooting scene in Malone on June 26. Hide Caption 13 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers and a forest ranger, back, search a barn in Owls Head, New York, on June 26. Hide Caption 14 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Corrections officers stop a vehicle Monday, June 22, in Owls Head, about 20 to 25 miles west of the prison where Matt and Sweat escaped. The discovery of the escapees' DNA in a cabin re-energized the search for the fugitives. Hide Caption 15 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A bus transports corrections officers to a search area in Mountain View, New York, on June 22. Hide Caption 16 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers use all-terrain vehicles in Mountain View on June 22. Hide Caption 17 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Corrections officers search railroad tracks near Friendship, New York, on Sunday, June 21, after a possible sighting of the fugitives. Hide Caption 18 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers gather along Route 20 near Friendship on June 21. Hide Caption 19 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A task force of U.S. Marshals and police officers go door to door near Dannemora, New York, searching for the two escaped murderers on Tuesday, June 16. Hide Caption 20 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Troopers stop civilian cars at a checkpoint outside Dannemora on Monday, June 15. Hide Caption 21 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Prison tailor Joyce Mitchell, charged with aiding the escape, appeared in court on Monday, June 15. Hide Caption 22 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers work a roadblock in Saranac, New York, on Saturday, June 13. Hide Caption 23 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement personnel line the roadside on June 13 as they search an area in Cadyville, New York. Hide Caption 24 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police prepare equipment during the search on Thursday, June 11. Hide Caption 25 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Authorities block a road in Cadyville during the manhunt on June 11. Hide Caption 26 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A Vermont state trooper heads out on Lake Champlain in Burlington, Vermont, on June 11. Hide Caption 27 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers question a woman who lives near the Dannemora prison on Wednesday, June 10. Hide Caption 28 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An employee stands guard at the Clinton Correctional Facility on June 10. Hide Caption 29 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An officer checks the trunk of a car at a checkpoint near the Dannemora border on June 10. Hide Caption 30 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Officers continue their search in Essex, New York, on Tuesday, June 9. Hide Caption 31 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An officer walks through a swampy area near Essex on June 9. Hide Caption 32 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers search a wooded area in Dannemora on Monday, June 8. Hide Caption 33 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners State corrections officers monitor traffic June 8 at the Clinton Correctional Facility. See photos of the route the escaped prisoners took Hide Caption 34 of 34Joyce Mitchell, 51, is behind bars, accused of providing the escapees with sneaking hacksaw blades, chisels, drill bits, a punch and other contraband before they broke out.Authorities have said Matt had a sexual relationship with Mitchell.No court date has been set for Mitchell, who has pleaded not guilty to the two charges brought against her and has been talking to authorities. If convicted, she could face up to eight years behind bars.Her husband Lyle, who also worked in the prison's tailoring block, feels betrayed by what happened, his attorney says.The prosecutor said Wednesday that Lyle Mitchell didn't know about the prisoners' escape plan before it happened and wasn't aware of his wife's relationships with the inmates.And in another development, a corrections officer was placed on administrative leave as part of the investigation into the escape, the state corrections department said. The officer's name was not released.The district attorney declined to comment beyond saying that the corrections officer was male.