(CNN) David Sweat spills details of botched escape plan, officials say. President Obama ups the overtime ante. And Donald Trump gets dumped by NBC.It's Tuesday and here are the 5 things to know for your new day:NEW YORK PRISON BREAKPrison escapees David Sweat and Richard Matt had an elaborate plan to make a run for Mexico after busting out of a New York prison. But when things went awry, they had to improvise during three weeks on the run. They made it to within a few miles of Canada. In the end, both men were shot. Matt is dead. Sweat is in an Albany hospital, but also spilling details of his time on the lam to police, New York governor said.See the items used to help escapees allude authoritiesSee the items used to help escapees allude authorities 01:42See the items used to help escapees allude authoritiesOBAMA WAGESOvertime hours: President Obama wants to President Obama wants to make 5 million more American workers eligible for overtime . Right now, the only way you're automatically guaranteed time and a half after working more than a 40-hour week is if you earn less than $23,660 a year. On the President's behalf, the Department of Labor will propose raising the limit to roughly $50,400, making many more folks eligible. The limit was last raised in 1975. Of course, businesses could just tell their employees not to work any overtime.President Obama wants to change overtime rule that could raise wages for millionsGREECEA nation in ruins: -- the Acropolis, the Parthenon, for example. But now that the Greek economy is in a heap, things aren't so rosy. Banks are closed for the rest of the week. ATMs are running out of money, and when there is money, folks can only withdraw $67 a day. Things are getting testy on the streets of Athens, but the financial crisis is also wreaking havoc on world markets. Stay tuned. Greek ruins used to be a good thing -- the Acropolis, the Parthenon, for example. But now that the Greek economy is in a heap, things aren't so rosy. Banks are closed for the rest of the week. ATMs are running out of money, and when there is money, folks can only withdraw $67 a day. Things are getting testy on the streets of Athens, but the financial crisis is also wreaking havoc on world markets. Stay tuned.JUST WATCHED Stocks tumble as panic rises in Greece Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Stocks tumble as panic rises in Greece 01:54TRUMP DUMPEDOn the other side: Usually, it's The Donald that does the firing, but this time it was NBCUniversal giving the businessman and presidential candidate the boot. Under pressure from Hispanic groups, NBC is severing its business ties with Donald Trump, which include the Miss USA and the Miss Universe pageants. A storm has been brewing since the billionaire offered his views on immigration, saying the U.S. has a serious problem. "When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best," Trump said in his presidential campaign announcement speech. "They're sending people who have lots of problems." Trump says he may sue NBC for terminating the relationship.JUST WATCHED NBC to Donald Trump: 'You're fired!' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NBC to Donald Trump: 'You're fired!' 02:06WASHINGTON WILDFIREFast-moving flames: Washington's Sleepy Hollow fire has raced through Washington's Sleepy Hollow fire has raced through 3,000 acres across the center of the state . Fire officials say only 10% of the wildfire is contained. Bone-dry conditions and triple-digit temperatures aren't helping matters, making the timber and brush excellent fuel for the flames.JUST WATCHED Fire Chief: Wildfire is 'spreading from house to house' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fire Chief: Wildfire is 'spreading from house to house' 03:28Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.NBA lawn boy: Sam Dekker may have been drafted in the first round by the Houston Rockets last week, but that doesn't mean he's too good to cut the grass for his mom. What a nice boy!Don't look into the eyes: One sure way to get people to do something is to tell them not to do it.