(CNN) Before he broke out of a New York prison, Richard Matt at one point made a painting for the worker who's accused of helping him escape.Using a photograph, Matt painted a picture of prison tailor shop instructor Joyce Mitchell's children, Clinton County District Attorney Andrew Wylie told CNN.And in April, Wylie said, Mitchell gave the painting to her husband as a wedding anniversary present. In exchange, Mitchell gave Matt a pair of speed bag gloves, similar to boxing gloves.Now Matt, who authorities have also said had a sexual relationship with Mitchell, is on the run with fellow convicted murderer David Sweat.Joyce Mitchell is behind bars, accused of helping them break free and sneaking hacksaw blades, chisels, drill bits, a punch and other contraband into the convicts' hands before they broke out.And as investigators widen their search for the fugitives, more details are emerging about relationships between Mitchell and the escapees that were years in the making.Cell phone records subpoenaedMitchell had been investigated in the past for an inappropriate relationship with Sweat that led corrections officials to move him out of the tailor shop in 2013 and keep them separated, Wylie said.That's the year when she started having a sexual relationship with Matt, a source close to the investigation told CNN. The sexual relationship took place at the tailor shop in the Clinton Correctional Facility, the only known place the two were together, the source said.No court date has been set for Mitchell, who has pleaded not guilty to the two charges brought against her and has been talking to authorities. If convicted, Mitchell could face up to eight years behind bars.The recordings of her conversations with investigators could total up to 20 hours, her attorney said.Investigators have also subpoenaed her cell phone records and found that she spoke with Matt's daughter at least once, Wylie said.Prosecutor: Husband didn't knowMitchell's husband, Lyle, also worked in the prison's tailoring block.But the prosecutor said Wednesday that Lyle Mitchell didn't know about the prisoners' escape plan before it happened and wasn't aware of his wife's relationships with the inmates.After Matt and Sweat broke out, Wylie said, Joyce Mitchell warned her husband that the men were free and had been plotting to kill him."She advised him after the escape of what happened, including the possible murder plot ," Wylie said.Joyce Mitchell's attorney says that doesn't mean she was participating in the plot."I don't believe she was involved in any attempt to kill her husband," her attorney, Stephen Johnston, told CNN. "Just because she heard something doesn't mean she was going to act on it. ... She did not want to be a part of it and did not."JUST WATCHED D.A.: Prison worker wanted to run off with fugitives Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH D.A.: Prison worker wanted to run off with fugitives 02:15On Tuesday, Lyle Mitchell was face to face with his wife for the first time since her arrest last week.The couple spent an hour together and were separated by glass, speaking over a phone in a private, unmonitored conversation, Clinton County Sheriff David Favro said."He's providing support," said Peter Dumas, Lyle Mitchell's attorney. "He's not planning to testify on her behalf."Johnston, Joyce Mitchell's attorney, said he did not know what the two talked about. He described his client's state of mind as "distraught, very weepy and very upset."Did others help?Investigators are looking at other prison employees as well and haven't ruled out that they may have played a role in the escape, the source with knowledge of the investigation said.Officials are also investigating whether other inmates might have helped create some type of diversion before, during or after Matt and Sweat escaped, the source said.The "honor block" at the prison, a special section that had housed Matt, Sweat and other inmates who'd gone years without significant disciplinary action, has been shut down after their escape and will now be turned into a regular cell block, a source with detailed knowledge of the Clinton Correctional facility told CNN.Being in the honor block gave inmates privileges such as going outside every day, having hot plates and refrigerators in their cells, and congregating for hours in a central gallery area each evening with fellow inmates, said Rich Plumadore, who worked at the facility for 35 years.Hundreds of leadsAuthorities looking for Matt and Sweat have searched 16 square miles -- more than 10,000 acres, which is the equivalent of almost 8,000 football fields -- New York State Police Maj. Charles Guess told reporters Wednesday.Police have also developed more than 1,400 leads, the major said.Police issued "progression" photos of Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat, showing how they might look now.Guess reiterated what state police said Tuesday: that authorities are expanding the search to other areas surrounding Dannemora, New York.There are now 600 local, state and federal law enforcement officers involved in the search, a drop from the 800 involved Tuesday. Guess said that since authorities are "no longer containing a hard perimeter," they released about 200 officers, but there has been no reduction in the number of tactical, canine, aviation or ground search units."There's no hard evidence that they're outside the area. That being said, I can't rule that out," said Capt. Robert LaFountain, of the New York State Police Bureau of Criminal Investigation.Asked if authorities miscalculated by spending so much time searching near the Clinton Correctional Facility, the state police captain added, "Absolutely not. We (had) to start from ... point zero."The captain remains confident that Matt and Sweat will be found, he said."We are going to locate the individuals and they will be apprehended," he said.JUST WATCHED Source: Joyce Mitchell warns husband of murder plot Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Source: Joyce Mitchell warns husband of murder plot 01:38Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat were on the run after they escaped from the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York, on Saturday, June 6. Matt was killed by police on Friday, June 26. Sweat was captured two days later and is now in police custody. Hide Caption 1 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Hide Caption 2 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Matt's body lies on the ground after he was killed by police on June 26. Hide Caption 3 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Sweat was captured on June 28, multiple law enforcement sources briefed on the investigation told CNN. He was shot twice in a field by a New York state trooper and taken into custody in upstate New York, close to the Canadian border. Hide Caption 4 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Sweat is bloodied, shirtless and cuffed at the ankles, and he appears to be breathing into an oxygen mask after his capture on June 28. Hide Caption 5 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Police escort ambulances from an area where law enforcement officers were searching for Sweat on June 28. Hide Caption 6 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officials are seen in the side-view mirror of a car as they stand guard June 28 in Duane, New York. Hide Caption 7 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners FBI agents conduct a search for Sweat near Duane on June 28. Hide Caption 8 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An FBI agent searches for Sweat on June 28. Hide Caption 9 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers man a roadblock in Malone, New York, on Saturday, June 27. Hide Caption 10 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers talk to motorists at a roadblock near Malone on June 27. Hide Caption 11 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers stand guard near the site where Matt was shot and killed in Malone on June 26. Hide Caption 12 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A New York State Police officer stands guard near the shooting scene in Malone on June 26. Hide Caption 13 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers and a forest ranger, back, search a barn in Owls Head, New York, on June 26. Hide Caption 14 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Corrections officers stop a vehicle Monday, June 22, in Owls Head, about 20 to 25 miles west of the prison where Matt and Sweat escaped. The discovery of the escapees' DNA in a cabin re-energized the search for the fugitives. Hide Caption 15 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A bus transports corrections officers to a search area in Mountain View, New York, on June 22. Hide Caption 16 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers use all-terrain vehicles in Mountain View on June 22. Hide Caption 17 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Corrections officers search railroad tracks near Friendship, New York, on Sunday, June 21, after a possible sighting of the fugitives. Hide Caption 18 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers gather along Route 20 near Friendship on June 21. Hide Caption 19 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A task force of U.S. Marshals and police officers go door to door near Dannemora, New York, searching for the two escaped murderers on Tuesday, June 16. Hide Caption 20 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Troopers stop civilian cars at a checkpoint outside Dannemora on Monday, June 15. Hide Caption 21 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Prison tailor Joyce Mitchell, charged with aiding the escape, appeared in court on Monday, June 15. Hide Caption 22 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers work a roadblock in Saranac, New York, on Saturday, June 13. Hide Caption 23 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement personnel line the roadside on June 13 as they search an area in Cadyville, New York. Hide Caption 24 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police prepare equipment during the search on Thursday, June 11. Hide Caption 25 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Authorities block a road in Cadyville during the manhunt on June 11. Hide Caption 26 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A Vermont state trooper heads out on Lake Champlain in Burlington, Vermont, on June 11. Hide Caption 27 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers question a woman who lives near the Dannemora prison on Wednesday, June 10. Hide Caption 28 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An employee stands guard at the Clinton Correctional Facility on June 10. Hide Caption 29 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An officer checks the trunk of a car at a checkpoint near the Dannemora border on June 10. Hide Caption 30 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Officers continue their search in Essex, New York, on Tuesday, June 9. Hide Caption 31 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An officer walks through a swampy area near Essex on June 9. Hide Caption 32 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers search a wooded area in Dannemora on Monday, June 8. Hide Caption 33 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners State corrections officers monitor traffic June 8 at the Clinton Correctional Facility. See photos of the route the escaped prisoners took Hide Caption 34 of 34Expanded searchWith few clues pointing toward where Matt and Sweat went after they escaped, investigators are changing tack.The search stretched into day 12 on Wednesday. The area that hundreds of law enforcement officers are combing is expanding, New York State Police said Tuesday evening.Teams will be redeployed to new areas near the prison in Dannemora, New York, police said, saying the shifting search zone was based on information uncovered in the hunt for the fugitives.JUST WATCHED Police surrounding new area in hunt for escaped killers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police surrounding new area in hunt for escaped killers 02:16Canine units are still searching for a scent that might lead police to Matt and Sweat, who escaped from the maximum-security facility known as "Little Siberia" in upstate New York on June 6."We're putting our heart and soul into this," Favro, the Clinton County sheriff, said of the search. "I'm confident that we'll be able to get these two."But after earlier promising leads went cold , officials aren't even sure they're looking in the right place.The fugitives could have made it across Lake Champlain to Vermont, and New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo has said he talked to his counterpart there to thrash out a "cooperative agreement" for the search.Another possibility is Canada, whose border lies just 20 miles north of the prison.But Jonathan Gilliam, a former FBI agent who has led manhunts, says the killers wouldn't try to drive past border checkpoints -- and going on foot through the thick woods is even harder."It's kind of a harsh environment, cold at night," he told CNN. "They're instantly setting themselves up for a fall."Holed up in a cabin?Searchers are scouring parts of the Adirondacks in upstate New York, a 6 million-acre wilderness at the doorstep of the prison. It's filled with hundreds of cabins, many of them abandoned in the off-season.JUST WATCHED How does a trail for 2 fugitives go cold? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How does a trail for 2 fugitives go cold? 04:51Investigators think Matt and Sweat could be holed up in one of them. Or, they warn, the pair could invade a home and take hostages.But Gilliam says that would be "a big chance to take.""If you do that, even if you leave, now you've set a footprint for the police to latch onto," he said.According to authorities, Joyce Mitchell says Matt and Sweat told her they planned to drive to an unspecified destination about seven hours away.She backed out of the getaway plan, and it's unclear what other options the killers had in mind. But driving for that length of time at an average speed of 60 mph would put big cities like Boston, New York and Philadelphia within reach.Those environments might be easier ones in which to disappear."People are very aware of who's around them" in small towns, said Gilliam. "They're very aware of what other people are doing. Once you get into a larger city, people just stop paying attention."Killer's ties to MexicoEven farther afield is Mexico, a possibility that Cuomo mentioned over the weekend.The country, about 2,000 miles away, features in Matt's past.In 1997, he murdered a man near Buffalo, New York, and then fled to Mexico, where he killed another man before being captured.He had "Mexico Forever" tattooed on his back, police say.Authorities are offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the escaped inmates' arrests.It's not clear how much money has been spent, but judging from the boots on the ground, it can't be cheap.And time may be increasingly on the killers' side."You can't sustain this type of a manhunt for very long," Gilliam said. "It's just too much of a vacuum of all other resources."