(CNN) A pair of convicted murderers who escaped from a nearby prison were all the talk at Melissa's Barber Shop in the upstate New York hamlet of West Chazy."My son says we'll be reading a book and watching a movie about this one day," Melissa Guerin, 41, said Tuesday. "It's never happened before."West Chazy is about 30 minutes from the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, where Richard Matt and David Sweat cut through a cell wall, maneuvered across a catwalk, shimmied down six stories to a tunnel of pipes, broke through a double-brick wall in the tunnel, cut into a 24-inch steam pipe and shimmied their way through, cut another hole in the pipe and finally surfaced through a manhole.They were the first inmates to escape from the maximum security prison in its 170-year history, shattering the sense of peace in a knot of sleepy hamlets and towns shadowed by the Adirondack Mountains."I always thought being closer to the facility, you would be safer," Guerin said. "They're not going to stay in the area but you don't know where they are. I'm paranoid."The shop's clientele is largely divided between the older and younger generation of workers at Clinton, one of the largest public employers in the area."The guys that used to work there, they don't understand how this happened," she said. "Someone wasn't doing their job."'No one can get out'Life in the sparsely populated area about 20 miles from the Canadian border has been transformed by an invasion of law enforcement officers, television satellite trucks, police checkpoints, state troopers guarding schools and changes in the ways people live their lives."People are eager to get back to the daily routine and the things that they do around here," said Jonathan Parks, superintendent of the Saranac Central School District. "People live around here for a reason. It's quiet. It's serene. Your daily routine doesn't really involve a whole lot of thought about danger. That's why we're here."On Sunday, the day after the breakout was discovered, law enforcement officers combed through all school district buildings, every school bus, and the woods and swamps surrounding the middle school and high school. A state trooper guards every school until 5:30 p.m. Bus drivers wait for children who want to remain inside their homes until buses arrive. Recess periods are now indoors. The manhunt involves 440 law enforcement officers -- almost the size of West Chazy's population.While the school district has prepared for active shooters and other emergencies, escaped convicts were never really a consideration."Everybody just has assumed that that's a given that no one can get out of there," Parks said of the notorious prison. "So that's certainly not been on our radar at all."'Infamous history'Opened in 1845, the Clinton Correctional Facility is also known as "Little Siberia." The name stems not only from its remote and cold location but also its history as home to some of the most hard-bitten inmates in the history of New York crime."You never really think of somebody getting out and hiding in the area," Parks said.At Melissa's Barber Shop, Guerin said her sons have been keeping her company out of concern for her safety. Her eyes are glued on the security camera. Customers arrive in pairs. People lock their car doors while driving, and shut the windows in their homes at night.Photos: New York prison escape Photos: New York prison escape Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat were discovered missing on Saturday, June 6, at the 5:30 a.m. "standing count" of inmates at the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Gov. Andrew Cuomo, shown during a tour of the prison, said of the escapees: "These are dangerous people. They are nothing to be trifled with." Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape The hole the inmates cut into a cell wall to escape. The men had side-by-side cells and apparently had obtained power tools to cut through the steel wall, authorities said.Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Looking from the catwalk, this is the hole the inmates cut into the wall. The pair followed the catwalk toward a series of tunnels. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Gov. Cuomo studies the maze of pipes the prisoners navigated during their escape. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Cuomo climbs a ladder as he examines the prisoners' escape route. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Cuomo examines the escape route of the prisoners. "It was elaborate; it was sophisticated," he said. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape The inmates used power tools to drill through steel pipes as they made their escape. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Gov. Cuomo examines a pipe the inmates cut through. Authorities don't know how the prisoners got the power tools. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Officials look at the manhole through which the inmates crawled to freedom. Hide Caption 10 of 10"I have a lot of correctional officers who come here," Guerin said. "They're very protective of me. I heard about the breakout before it was on the news. One of the officers wanted me to be safe. It was Saturday morning. He just wanted to let me know. He called and sent pictures of the escapees."An independent advocacy group called the Correctional Association of New York has described the Clinton Correctional Facility as a place that "has an infamous history of staff violence, brutality, dehumanization and racist attitudes that are an affront to any sense of humanity."The notorious Mafioso Charles "Lucky" Luciano did 10 years there before being deported to Italy.Robert Chambers, the so-called preppy murderer, was transferred there after committing infractions at another prison. Chambers, who claimed that Jennifer Levin died accidentally during rough sex, was convicted of manslaughter -- and, later, of drug offenses.The bond between the surrounding communities and prison runs deep."Permanent settlement in Dannemora began in 1838 and Dannemora was officially incorporated as a village in 1901, growing up around the Clinton Correctional Facility," the village website said.The prison, which is "one of the largest public employers in the county," houses about 3,000 inmates, according to the website.'Are they here?'"My Grandfather Kennedy worked on the prison farm," said Michael Maggy, a co-owner and pharmacist at Maggy Pharmacy, across the street from the prison."My Grandfather Maggy worked at the annex. My Uncle Russell worked in the prison system. So did my cousins and a lot of my best friends. I always valued what they did. But it does desensitize you driving by every day of what's actually behind the wall."The military-type precision with which local, state and federal law enforcement personnel have responded to the breakout gives people confidence, Maggy said."Even though we're still aware that these bad guys ... are still out there and they may be still here, it's making us feel very protected and a little more comfortable," he said. "We're very concerned. Everyone who has a dog that barks at night, 'Is it an animal or are they here?'"On Tuesday, authorities scoured farms, fields and swampland in Willsboro, a town of 2,000 people on Lake Champlain, about 40 miles south of Dannemora. The search was prompted by a resident who spotted two men walking down a road in Willsboro in the middle of a driving rain overnight, Town Supervisor Shaun Gillilland said. As the resident's car approached them, they took off.A law enforcement source close to the investigation suggested the men have been on foot since springing themselves from the prison.'Another 100 years'In Willsboro, Darren Darrah said law enforcement officers surrounded his home Tuesday morning."The phone in my pocket started ringing and I told my boss, 'I need to go home. My front yard and my house is on every news channel and every newspaper you can think off,'" he said.When he returned home, Darrah said, busloads of law enforcement agents had descended on the area.Photos: Amazing prison escapes Photos: Amazing prison escapes New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, right, is shown the manhole where two convicted murderers escaped from the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York, on Saturday, June 6, 2015. Police say Richard Matt, 48, and David Sweat, 34, escaped from the maximum-security prison using power tools. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Amazing prison escapes George Rivas is sworn in at a trial in Dallas in November 2003. On December 13, 2000, Rivas' gang, known as the Texas Seven, overpowered workers at a prison in Kenedy, Texas. They stole the workers' clothes, broke into the prison's armory to get guns and drove away in a prison truck. They committed several robberies and gunned down a police officer. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Amazing prison escapes French criminal Pascal Payet escaped prison twice using hijacked helicopters. His last escape occurred in 2007. Four men hijacked a helicopter, flew it to the prison Payet was being held in and helped him escape. Three months later, Payet was caught in Spain. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Amazing prison escapes Michel Vaujour is shown on trial in Paris in 1991. His wife, Nadine Vaujour, flew a helicopter to his Paris prison in 1986, and he forced his way to the roof by wielding nectarines painted as grenades. Nadine was later arrested, and Michel was killed in a failed bank robbery. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Amazing prison escapes Northern Ireland's Maze Prison, once considered one of the most secure prisons in Europe, was closed in 2000 after a series of escape attempts. The largest of these occurred in 1983, when 38 prisoners escaped by smuggling in weapons and hijacking a food delivery van. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Amazing prison escapes In 1962, Frank Morris and brothers John and Clarence Anglin escaped a prison that was thought to be inescapable -- Alcatraz in San Francisco. They crafted dummy heads with real human hair to trick guards. They also used homemade drills to enlarge vent holes, and they formed raincoats into a raft to escape the island prison. They still have not been found. It is presumed that they drowned. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Amazing prison escapes American criminal John Dillinger, center, sits in court in 1934 after being accused of killing a police officer. Later that year, he escaped an Indiana jail wielding a wooden gun he whittled. After imprisoning guards, he drove away in the sheriff's car. A few months later, he was shot dead outside of a theater in Chicago. Hide Caption 7 of 7"It's very scary," he said.Parks said many correctional officers and prison employees have children in the district schools."They realize that the best of the best are here in the area looking," for the convicted murderers, he said. "That leads to a sense of security."Parks has a son in the eighth grade."Certainly everybody has in the back of their mind what could happen," he said. "There's no doubt about that. We're all certain that there will be a significant review of practices and procedures at that prison. We'll all pretty much bet our paychecks that it will be another 100 years before somebody escapes from that place."