Story highlights 21,000 inflatable pool slides have been recalledAuthorities say safety hazards led to mother's deathConsumer protection commission says slide can topple, doesn't carry warningsIf you're heading to the pool this summer, be on the lookout for an inflatable water slide toy that federal authorities say can be deadly. The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission announced Thursday it is recalling 21,000 inflatable pool slides because of safety hazards that authorities say led to the death of a 29-year-old Colorado mother who fractured her neck while using the slide in Andover, Massachusetts. The commission is urging consumers to immediately stop using the slide and return it to the place of purchase.The commission says the slide can deflate during use, causing people to hit their head on the ground. The agency also says the slide is unstable, can topple over and carries inadequate warnings and instructions.Marketed under the name "Banzai Splash," the pool slides were sold at Wal-Mart and Toys R Us nationwide from January 2005 through June 2009 for around $250. Both companies have agreed to cooperate with the commission in the recall.The slides were made in China for Manley Toys, Ltd. Consumers who think they might have one of the slides should look for "Banzai Splash" printed in a circular blue, orange and white logo shaped like a wave on either side of the slide, according to the commission.In the fatal incident involving the 29-year-old mother, the slide had been placed over the concrete edge of the pool. She hit her head at the bottom of the slide because it had partially deflated, according to the commission. Additionally, the agency says a 24-year-old Springfield, Missouri, man suffered a similar injury, leaving him a quadriplegic. The commission says it's also aware of a woman from Allentown, Pennsylvania, who suffered a fractured neck while using the slide.The recalled slides have the barcode number 2675315734 and model number 15734. The commission says both the barcode and model number appear on the original packaging but are not on the actual slide.