Hurricane Joaquin is the reason why. On Thursday, it lashed the Bahamas as a Category 4 storm with 130 mph winds. It's what is expected to come next that has the United States worried: a stronger storm and a sharp turn north.That's why officials from South Carolina to New England have issued dire warnings to residents urging them to be ready. A lot could still happen with Joaquin; but one thing they don't want to happen is another Superstorm Sandy -- a strong, October hurricane that hit the Caribbean before pounding the Northeast."We don't know for sure where the hurricane is going to go," Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf said. "But we have no ground, at all, for complacency."The good news: If current projections hold, Joaquin won't be another Sandy.The not-so-good news: Hurricane projections are notoriously unpredictable. And regardless of whether Joaquin makes landfall, it probably will cause plenty of rain and more flooding along an already soaked East Coast.Mark Fekete knows that all too well, which is why he isn't taking any chances. After putting his hurricane shutters up, he's leaving Sandbridge Beach, Virginia, to head inland."A lot of people don't take it seriously until the last minute," Fekete told CNN. "Then everybody's got to get out of here."Joaquin hitting the BahamasFor Thursday, Joaquin essentially parked over the Bahamas. The archipelago nation of more than 350,000 people will continue to suffer the consequences for many hours more, because the storm was crawling west-southwest at a mere 5 mph.Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years The last 30 years have brought plenty of deadly and destructive storms to the United States, including 2005's Hurricane Katrina (here, police and others use boats to rescue people in a flooded New Orleans neighborhood). Click through the gallery to see more photos of disastrous hurricanes over the last three decades, and check out this video to find out which states have been hit the most often. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Sandy, 2012: It technically lost its hurricane status shortly before striking New Jersey, but its gigantic size -- it covered 1.8 million square miles at landfall -- sent devastating storm surges to the coast. Here, a man looks for pieces of his beach house after It technically lost its hurricane status shortly before striking New Jersey, but its gigantic size -- it covered 1.8 million square miles at landfall -- sent devastating storm surges to the coast. Here, a man looks for pieces of his beach house after Sandy demolished it in Seaside Heights, New Jersey. With 72 directly killed in eight states, this was the most deadly tropical cyclone outside the South since 1972's Hurricane Agnes. At least 650,000 U.S. homes were damaged or destroyed in the U.S. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Irene, 2011: After hitting North Carolina, After hitting North Carolina, Irene did most of its damage in the way of heavy rain and flooding in New York and New England. In southern Vermont alone, nearly 2,400 roads were damaged or destroyed, NOAA says. Here, Tony Carr carries a TV set September 1 from his home, which was destroyed by Irene-related floods in Prattsville, New York. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Ike, 2008: After killing scores in the Caribbean, Ike turned to Texas, sending storm surges that leveled homes on Galveston Island. It's remnants did extensive damage as far north as Ohio, where 2.6 million people lost power. Here, an Air Force Reserve pararescueman scans the ravaged Texas landscape shortly after Ike. Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Katrina, 2005: Unforgettable Unforgettable Katrina -- the costliest hurricane and one of the five deadliest to hit the United States, according to NOAA -- devastated the Gulf Coast days after crossing Florida. Flooding destroyed thousands of homes in the New Orleans area alone; storm surges wiped out coastal towns in Mississippi. Here, people stand stranded on a roof in New Orleans. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Rita, 2005: Just a month after Katrina, : Just a month after Katrina, Hurricane Rita piled on, slamming into the Louisiana coast. Wind, rain and tornadoes left billions in damages from eastern Texas to Alabama. Here, surging water from Rita reach the streets of New Orleans' Ninth Ward, topping a levee that had just been patched after Katrina damaged it. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Wilma, 2005: The year might be remembered for the one-two punch of Katrina and Rita, but : The year might be remembered for the one-two punch of Katrina and Rita, but Wilma , which hit Florida after devastating Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula, would become (as of May 2015) the U.S.'s fifth most costly cyclone. Here, workers remove debris from a Miami flower and plant shop on October 28. Millions were without power in the state. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Beta, 2005: Beta wasn't one of the most devastating cyclones, but we include it here to make a point: There were so many named storms in the Atlantic in 2005 that forecasters' pre-approved 21-name list for the year was exhausted. So they went to the Greek alphabet six times, including for Hurricane Beta, which directly hit part of Nicaragua. Here, people wade through a street flooded by Beta in Honduras on October 30. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Ivan, 2004: This year also was hurricane-heavy, punctuated by : This year also was hurricane-heavy, punctuated by Ivan , a storm with two lives. First, it killed dozens in the Caribbean and slammed into Alabama. Later, its remnants went back over Florida from the Atlantic and re-formed in the Gulf as a tropical storm, making another landfall in southwestern Louisiana. It spawned more than 100 tornadoes, one of the factors that left considerable damage across the Southeast and some mid-Atlantic states. Here, a woman walks over debris as she visits her home, destroyed by Ivan, in Perdido Key, Florida, on September 20. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Floyd, 1999: Deadly flooding, especially in North Carolina, was one of Floyd's main legacies. Parts of eastern North Carolina and Virginia received 15 to 20 inches of rain, and flooding led to the razing of thousands of buildings -- most of them homes -- from North Carolina to New Jersey. At the time, it was the deadliest U.S. hurricane since 1972. Here,a beach house, severely damaged by Floyd, sits crumbled sits in the sand on the Oak Island town of Long Beach, North Carolina, on November 10. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Andrew, 1992: Andrew blasted its way across south Florida on August 24 as a Category 4 with peak gusts measured at 164 mph. After raking entire neighborhoods in an around Homestead, it moved across the Gulf to hit Louisiana as a Category 3. It was responsible for 23 U.S. deaths and three in the Bahamas. Here, a sailboat sits on a sidewalk at Dinner Key in Miami after Andrew washed it ashore. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hugo, 1989: Hugo ripped through the Carolinas, starting with Charleston, South Carolina, on September 22 as a Category 4 after raking the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. Here, a man stands in a destroyed house on September 27 in South Carolina. Hide Caption 23 of 23As of 8 p.m. ET, the U.S. National Hurricane Center reported that the storm was centered about 25 miles east-southeast of Clarence Town in the Bahamas and 75 miles south of San Salvador in the same island nation.Forecasters say the hurricane will be near the northwestern Bahamas -- including the country's most populous city, Nassau -- by Friday. That's when the storm is expected to turn northward and began moving at a faster clip.By that time, Joaquin could have 140 mph winds capable of causing catastrophic damage, the National Hurricane Center said.A satellite image shows Hurricane Joaquin on Thursday afternoon.Ten to 20 inches of rain could fall over much of the central Bahamas through Friday, according to the hurricane center.And rain and strong winds are not the only concerns. The hurricane center warned of "life-threatening surf and rip current conditions" as well as "a very dangerous and life-threatening storm surge (that) will raise water levels by as much as 5 to 10 feet above normal tide levels in the central Bahamas."Even as it crawled and mauled the Bahamas, the storm was already having an impact elsewhere -- with 55 mph gusts on Thursday evening being felt as far away as Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Hurricane-force winds were measured as far out as 50 miles from its eye."Joaquin is a large hurricane," the Miami-based hurricane center pointed out.Where it might make landfall in U.S.This image shows a National Hurricane Center forecast track for Hurricane Joaquin, with the storm's eye predicted to be somewhere within the shaded cone on the days indicated.Joaquin's forecast track shows it could be near North Carolina by Monday and possibly New Jersey a day later, hauntingly close to where Superstorm Sandy made landfall in 2012.It was just three years ago this month that Sandy slammed the Northeast, devastating parts of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.But the projected path of the current storm system already has changed multiple times and could change again.And should Joaquin make it back to the areas Sandy devastated before, it's not expected to pack the same punch.When Sandy made landfall on October 29, 2012, it had hurricane-force winds. Joaquin has been projected to be a tropical storm once it gets that far north.Heavy rains, flooding big worries on U.S. coastThe rain and waves? Now that's a different story.No matter where Joaquin goes, the storm is expected to bring significant rainfall to the East Coast, where some states already were dealing with flooding from separate systems this week."One way or the other, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia and on up will get between 5 and 10 inches of rain -- even without a direct landfall," CNN meteorologist Chad Myers said. "If we get a landfall, we get 15 inches of rain and winds of 80 mph."But without even a direct landfall, there will be significant flooding through the Carolinas, through Virginia, and all the way up the East Coast."Flood warnings were in effect Thursday evening from parts of Georgia and as far north as New Jersey. Many of them extended far inland, as far west as parts of West Virginia and Tennessee.Even as far north as Waterbury, Vermont, Skip Flanders is keeping an eye out. He's seen firsthand from 2011's Hurricane Irene that the heavy rains from a huge tropical system like this can have devastating effects far from the coast."We had 28 inches of water in our house from Irene," Flanders told CNN affiliate WCAX . "I certainly hope that something of that proportion doesn't happen again."Such worries are compounded by the already drenched conditions in parts of the Northeast.For example, flooding made some streets impassable in Portland, Maine, on Wednesday. Several cars were stalled on one street there after their drivers tried to make it through standing water, CNN affiliate WMTW reportedWouldn't recommend driving in Portland right now #storms #flooding #sendit #porlandmaine #cnnireport A photo posted by Dillon Hough (@houghd1091) on Sep 30, 2015 at 8:57am PDTHow communities are getting readyAll these worries have spurred the governors of Virginia, New Jersey and South Carolina to declare states of emergency in advance of the storm. Such advisories were most salient in spots along the coast, where residents know all too well what havoc may await.Gov declares state of emergency as Commonwealth responds to flooding & prepares for more dangerous weather. http://t.co/PqeyDjlx9v — Terry McAuliffe (@GovernorVA) September 30, 2015Along Virginia Beach's Atlantic Avenue, a main thoroughfare about two blocks from the ocean, business owners appeared to be taking a wait-and-see approach. There were no boarded-up windows. Stores remained open, but there were only a few customers. It wasn't clear if that was because of the weather or because it's October in a beach town.Asked what she was doing to prepare for Joaquin, Sharlotte Castillo of the beach shop Sunsations, about a block from the water, told CNN, "Pray, but we always pray, so nothing new. ... We're usually fine here -- maybe a little rain, but we're staying open."In eastern Pennsylvania, folks were taking the threat just as seriously. The Poconos took a beating during Sandy."What we're expecting here is to be on alert for flash floods as well as power outages, and so we're trying to get the word out to the community to think ahead, to have a plan," Michele Baehr with the Red Cross told affiliate WNEPDwyane Francis of Bushkill stocked up on canned goods."Preparation is the key. You have to be prepared for everything," he said.