And it won't end, in many places, for several more days.While it appears Hurricane Joaquin won't land the direct hit that some feared, communities from the Carolinas through New England nonetheless have their hands full from another storm system that's largely stalled and, in so doing, pummeled millions with rain."This is not just any rain," Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina said. "This is going to be the heaviest rain we have ever seen."South Carolina, New Jersey, North Carolina and Virginia declared states of emergency. Coastal flood warnings were in effect from Georgia north into New Jersey, in line with the National Weather Service's forecast of "heavy rain over a large area through Sunday evening."Crews in Brunswick County, North Carolina, spent Friday night checking on and evacuating residents from homes along the coast due to significant flooding there, the country emergency management office said in a press release.By then, from 2 to upwards of 5 inches of rainfall had already been reported in states such as Tennessee (with 5.5 inches in Columbia), South Carolina (a high of 3.5 inches on Sullivan's Island), North Carolina (5.3 inches in Calabash) and Delaware (with over 3.5 inches along the coast).The National Weather Service warned that some places could see as much as 12 inches of rain.Flooding is a major concern for a number of reasons: directly from all the rains, indirectly from rivers and creeks possibly overflowing their banks, and also from storm surges fanned by strong winds (beaches off New Jersey and Delaware, for instance, had seen around 50 mph gusts by Friday.)Compounding this is the fact that the region was already drenched."We've gotten into this pattern of lows in the Mid-Atlantic, which has had lots of rain the last two weeks," CNN meteorologist Rachel Aissen said. "So the ground is just saturated."'Squeezing effect' for rains, windsA few days ago, some forecasters thought that Hurricane Joaquin could make landfall over the weekend in Virginia or somewhere in that vicinity. The fear was that this could be another Superstorm Sandy -- an October storm that barrels up from the Caribbean with high winds, heavy rains and deadly flooding.It doesn't look like that will happen, though it doesn't mean history won't be made.Aissen explained that a combination of factors, including a high-pressure system behind the system, are helping push Joaquin away from the U.S. coast. At the same time, they're making the system now parked there more dangerous."It's creating a squeezing effect that is just ushering both moisture and high winds," said the CNN meteorologist, explaining that the winds are more a worry -- not due to the damage they can do themselves, but how they might rustle up storm surges.In an anticipation of that wet reality, Friday night football games were moved up a day over flooding concerns in South Carolina's Lowcountry region, while others were postponed. The Yankees-Orioles game in Baltimore and the Marlins-Phillies showdown in Philadelphia were both postponed due to rain.Governor Nikki Haley has declared a State of Emergency, agencies directed to prepare together for #Joaquin & major flooding #sctweets #alert — SCEMD (@SCEMD) October 1, 2015Farther north, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie warned that -- hurricane or not -- there could be flooding in the southern counties of Cape May, Atlantic, Cumberland and Salem.Said New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo: "We're not getting complacent, because weather reports change. We're making sure that everything is ready to go, just in case."Along Virginia Beach's Atlantic Avenue, a main thoroughfare about two blocks from the ocean, business owners appeared to be taking a wait-and-see approach on Friday.Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years The last 30 years have brought plenty of deadly and destructive storms to the United States, including 2005's Hurricane Katrina (here, police and others use boats to rescue people in a flooded New Orleans neighborhood). Click through the gallery to see more photos of disastrous hurricanes over the last three decades, and check out this video to find out which states have been hit the most often. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Sandy, 2012: It technically lost its hurricane status shortly before striking New Jersey, but its gigantic size -- it covered 1.8 million square miles at landfall -- sent devastating storm surges to the coast. Here, a man looks for pieces of his beach house after It technically lost its hurricane status shortly before striking New Jersey, but its gigantic size -- it covered 1.8 million square miles at landfall -- sent devastating storm surges to the coast. Here, a man looks for pieces of his beach house after Sandy demolished it in Seaside Heights, New Jersey. With 72 directly killed in eight states, this was the most deadly tropical cyclone outside the South since 1972's Hurricane Agnes. At least 650,000 U.S. homes were damaged or destroyed in the U.S. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Irene, 2011: After hitting North Carolina, After hitting North Carolina, Irene did most of its damage in the way of heavy rain and flooding in New York and New England. In southern Vermont alone, nearly 2,400 roads were damaged or destroyed, NOAA says. Here, Tony Carr carries a TV set September 1 from his home, which was destroyed by Irene-related floods in Prattsville, New York. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Ike, 2008: After killing scores in the Caribbean, Ike turned to Texas, sending storm surges that leveled homes on Galveston Island. It's remnants did extensive damage as far north as Ohio, where 2.6 million people lost power. Here, an Air Force Reserve pararescueman scans the ravaged Texas landscape shortly after Ike. Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Katrina, 2005: Unforgettable Unforgettable Katrina -- the costliest hurricane and one of the five deadliest to hit the United States, according to NOAA -- devastated the Gulf Coast days after crossing Florida. Flooding destroyed thousands of homes in the New Orleans area alone; storm surges wiped out coastal towns in Mississippi. Here, people stand stranded on a roof in New Orleans. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Rita, 2005: Just a month after Katrina, : Just a month after Katrina, Hurricane Rita piled on, slamming into the Louisiana coast. Wind, rain and tornadoes left billions in damages from eastern Texas to Alabama. Here, surging water from Rita reach the streets of New Orleans' Ninth Ward, topping a levee that had just been patched after Katrina damaged it. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Wilma, 2005: The year might be remembered for the one-two punch of Katrina and Rita, but : The year might be remembered for the one-two punch of Katrina and Rita, but Wilma , which hit Florida after devastating Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula, would become (as of May 2015) the U.S.'s fifth most costly cyclone. Here, workers remove debris from a Miami flower and plant shop on October 28. Millions were without power in the state. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Beta, 2005: Beta wasn't one of the most devastating cyclones, but we include it here to make a point: There were so many named storms in the Atlantic in 2005 that forecasters' pre-approved 21-name list for the year was exhausted. So they went to the Greek alphabet six times, including for Hurricane Beta, which directly hit part of Nicaragua. Here, people wade through a street flooded by Beta in Honduras on October 30. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Ivan, 2004: This year also was hurricane-heavy, punctuated by : This year also was hurricane-heavy, punctuated by Ivan , a storm with two lives. First, it killed dozens in the Caribbean and slammed into Alabama. Later, its remnants went back over Florida from the Atlantic and re-formed in the Gulf as a tropical storm, making another landfall in southwestern Louisiana. It spawned more than 100 tornadoes, one of the factors that left considerable damage across the Southeast and some mid-Atlantic states. Here, a woman walks over debris as she visits her home, destroyed by Ivan, in Perdido Key, Florida, on September 20. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Floyd, 1999: Deadly flooding, especially in North Carolina, was one of Floyd's main legacies. Parts of eastern North Carolina and Virginia received 15 to 20 inches of rain, and flooding led to the razing of thousands of buildings -- most of them homes -- from North Carolina to New Jersey. At the time, it was the deadliest U.S. hurricane since 1972. Here,a beach house, severely damaged by Floyd, sits crumbled sits in the sand on the Oak Island town of Long Beach, North Carolina, on November 10. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Andrew, 1992: Andrew blasted its way across south Florida on August 24 as a Category 4 with peak gusts measured at 164 mph. After raking entire neighborhoods in an around Homestead, it moved across the Gulf to hit Louisiana as a Category 3. It was responsible for 23 U.S. deaths and three in the Bahamas. Here, a sailboat sits on a sidewalk at Dinner Key in Miami after Andrew washed it ashore. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Devastating hurricanes of the last 30 years Hugo, 1989: Hugo ripped through the Carolinas, starting with Charleston, South Carolina, on September 22 as a Category 4 after raking the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. Here, a man stands in a destroyed house on September 27 in South Carolina. Hide Caption 23 of 23"We're usually fine here," said Sharlotte Castillo at the Sunsations beach shop. "Maybe a little rain, but we're staying open."Even as far north as Waterbury, Vermont, Skip Flanders was keeping an eye out. He's seen firsthand from 2011's Hurricane Irene that the heavy rains from a huge tropical system like this can have devastating effects far from the coast.