Story highlights Kendrick Johnson was found dead in a rolled up gym mat almost three years agoHis family, not believing the explanations given for his death, filed a $100 million civil suitDepartment of Justice has asked a judge to block the collection of evidence by attorneys(CNN) It's been almost three years since Kendrick Johnson was found dead in a rolled-up gym mat at his high school. The Georgia teen's death has attracted headlines and scrutiny ever since officials ruled his death accidental. His parents, never believing this finding, filed a $100 million civil suit which this week took yet another turn. The Department of Justice has asked a judge in Lowndes County to block the attorneys from collecting evidence in that civil suit.According to court documents, the Justice Department is asking the judge to 'temporarily stay discovery in the case for 180 days' pending the federal criminal investigation. If granted, the stay would prevent attorneys for Johnsons' parents, Kenneth and Jacquelyn Johnson, and attorneys representing the dozens of defendants named in the case from deposing witnesses and collecting other evidence for that six-month period.The Justice Department submitted two motions to the court on Monday; a motion to intervene and motion to stay. It's not clear what the Justice Department's argument entails because copies of each 14-page motion provided by the court to CNN have been heavily redacted. In some cases, entire pages have been blacked out.Assistant U.S. Attorney J. Thomas Clarkson included five exhibits to support the requests, including a six-page affidavit from Nelson Rhone, a criminal investigator who works in the office of U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia Deborah Sines. Sines joined the investigation in 2014. Nearly all of the copy of Rhone's affidavit that was provided to CNN has been redacted.In the filings, Clarkson noted that Chevene King, the Johnsons' attorney, issued a notice to depose FBI Special Agent Rick Bell. Bell is the father of Brian Bell and Branden Bell, former schoolmates of Johnson. All three Bells are named as defendants in the civil case. According to the Bell family's attorney, Brice Ladson, the three received letters in 2014 indicating they are also the targets of the Justice Department's federal criminal investigation.Read More