(CNN) Former NBA star Lamar Odom was conscious and able to say "Hi" to estranged wife Khloe Kardashian, a source with knowledge of the situation said Friday.It was unclear whether Odom remained conscious or how long he was awake.Odom's college coach, Jim Harrick, told CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360" that Kardashian told him she reached down to Odom on Friday morning and told him she loved him. Odom blinked, Harrick said.The former Rhode Island coach said doctors were taking "some things" -- Harrick implied they were breathing tubes and taking him off kidney dialysis -- out of Odom on Friday afternoon."... And he's awake now," Harrick said. "So that's probably the most encouraging news we've had since it all started."Odom is not in a coma and is using a mask to breathe, but has serious damage to his vital organs, the former NBA star's mother-in-law, Kris Jenner, told "Access Hollywood" on Friday.Odom has been at a Las Vegas hospital since Tuesday, after being found unresponsive at a brothel.JUST WATCHED Mentor: Khloe the 'best thing' that happened to Lamar Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCHEarlier a source close to the situation told CNN that Odom, 35, improved a "tiny bit" during his third night at Sunrise Hospital & Medical Center.Odom "got a tiny bit better -- emphasis on tiny -- and he was responsive in the middle of the night for a moment," the source said.Officials at Sunrise have not commented on the condition of Odom, whose medical decisions are being made by Kardashian, a source has told CNN. CNN has reached out several times to the hospital for comment and no one has returned any of the calls.Little is known about what left Odom unresponsive at a brothel in Crystal, Nevada , where he was found Tuesday, three days after he checked in.Nor is much know about what is going on inside his hospital room.The husband of a woman who is on the same floor as Odom said security is extremely tight.George Cooper said Odom has had many visitors. "All throughout the night there is banging and clicking as his entourage, managers, basketball players and what not coming and going off the floor," he said, adding that his wife's room is right by the doors to the wing.Odom spent tens of thousands at brothelJUST WATCHED Odom spent $75K at brothel Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Odom spent $75K at brothel 02:49As his private struggle turns into a public spectacle, a few details have emerged about Odom's time at the brothel.Most of the information is coming from Dennis Hof, the owner of the Love Ranch, where the former basketball player was found.In three days, Odom spent $75,000 there, which guaranteed two women would "take care of any of his needs," Hof told CNN's sister network HLN.He used cocaine on his first day at the brothel Saturday, employees told 911 dispatchers. On a 911 call played at a news conference, a woman said she also saw him take 10 herbal supplement tablets over three days.The brothel's employees also told 911 operators that when they found him Tuesday, Odom was lying in bed on his side with a pinkish fluid coming from his mouth and nose.Odom's children speak outHis father and two children have joined Kardashian family members at the hospital, but have revealed few specifics on his condition.In a statement Thursday, his children Destiny Odom, Lamar Odom Jr. and their family asked for prayers."Thanks for your outpouring of prayers and support for our dad. We are here with our family and friends," the statement said. "We appreciate everyone respecting our privacy at this time. We ask for your continued prayers."In addition to appearing on "Keeping Up With the Kardashians," Odom and Kardashian had their own reality show, "Khloe & Lamar." It lasted for two seasons and 20 episodes.The two signed divorce papers this year, but the divorce has not been finalized, a source told CNN.Grandmother: 'Spotlight could have gotten to him'His grandmother, Florence Odom, said she was devastated she could not be at his bedside because of her disabilities."I know Lamar didn't do the things they are saying he did. ... He's beautiful," she said. " If you ever were to meet him you would say the same. I don't listen to gossip."The pressures of celebrity could have taken their toll on him, the 89-year-old said.Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Lamar Odom dribbles the ball during an NBA game against the Denver Nuggets in November 2010. Odom, who won two championships during his career and later married reality TV star Khloe Kardashian, was hospitalized Tuesday, October 13, after he was found unconscious at a brothel in Nevada. On October 19, Odom was transferred to a Los Angeles hospital where he is reportedly breathing on his own. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom laughs during a game with the University of Rhode Island in November 1998. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom shakes hands with NBA Commissioner David Stern during the 1999 NBA Draft. Odom was drafted by the Los Angeles Clippers. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom goes for a dunk during a game in 2000. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom huddles with his Clippers teammates before a game in December 2002. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom plays for the Miami Heat in December 2003. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom pauses during a game in January 2004. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom speaks to the press as a Los Angeles Laker in October 2005. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom sits next to the Larry O'Brien Trophy during the Lakers' flight back to Los Angeles in June 2009. The Lakers defeated the Orlando Magic for the NBA championship. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom hoists the Larry O'Brien Trophy while riding in the Lakers' victory parade in June 2010. The Lakers defeated the Boston Celtics for a second straight championship. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Chauncey Billups, left, and Odom hold a trophy after the U.S. team won at the 2010 World Championships. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom receives the Sixth Man of the Year Award from Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak in April 2011. The award honors the NBA's best player in a reserve role. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom From left, Rob Kardashian, Odom, Khloe Kardashian, Kourtney Kardashian and Kim Kardashian pose for photographers during an event in Los Angeles in April 2011. Odom was married to Khloe, and he was featured in the reality show "Keeping Up With the Kardashians" as well as the couple's own reality show, "Khloe & Lamar," which lasted two seasons. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom plays for Spanish basketball club Laboral Kutxa during a Euroleague game in Vitoria, Spain, in February 2014. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Kris Jenner, left, and Kim Kardashian leave Sunrise Hospital & Medical Center in Las Vegas where Odom was being treated on Wednesday, October 14. Hide Caption 15 of 15"Lamar being on the show with the spotlight could have gotten to him," she said.Four teams, 14 seasonsOdom, 35, won two NBA championships as a forward for the Los Angeles Lakers.He played for four teams during his 14 seasons in the NBA and won the Sixth Man of the Year Award during the 2010-11 season.The Los Angeles Clippers drafted him in 1999, and he played for the team for four seasons before signing with the Miami Heat.After one season in Miami, he was traded to the Lakers, and became a key part of their championship teams in 2009 and 2010.A year later, he played briefly for the Dallas Mavericks before returning to the Clippers for one season. He has not played in the NBA since then, though the New York Knicks signed him at the end of the regular season last year, only to cut him three months later.