Photos: Iran: Key players in the nuclear talks After arduous talks that spanned 20 months, negotiators reached a landmark deal aimed at reining in Iran's nuclear program, announced on July 14. From left, European Union High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, Head of the Iranian Atomic Energy Organization Ali Akbar Salehi, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry pose for a group picture at the United Nations building in Vienna on July 14. Hide Caption 1 of 10Photos: Iran: Key players in the nuclear talks U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry has been spearheading negotiations on a possible deal to rein in Iran's nuclear program. Hide Caption 2 of 10Photos: Iran: Key players in the nuclear talks Kerry, second from left, meets Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, second from right, for talks in Lausanne, Switzerland, on Monday, March 16. At the far left is U.S. Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz. At the far right is Ali Akbar Salehi, head of Iran's Atomic Energy Organization. Hide Caption 3 of 10Photos: Iran: Key players in the nuclear talks Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei meets with environmental officials in Tehran, Iran, on Sunday, March 8. Hide Caption 4 of 10Photos: Iran: Key players in the nuclear talks Iranian President Hassan Rouhani speaks in September during a news conference in New York. Hide Caption 5 of 10Photos: Iran: Key players in the nuclear talks Wendy Sherman has been a key U.S. negotiator in the Iran talks. She is the under secretary of state for political affairs. Hide Caption 6 of 10Photos: Iran: Key players in the nuclear talks Federica Mogherini, foreign policy chief for the European Union, has been representing the Europeans in nuclear talks with Iran. Hide Caption 7 of 10Photos: Iran: Key players in the nuclear talks Iran's parliament speaker Ali Larijani listens to a question during a news conference in Tehran on March 16. Hide Caption 8 of 10Photos: Iran: Key players in the nuclear talks Yukiya Amano is director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the U.N.'s nuclear watchdog. Hide Caption 9 of 10