(CNN) When gunfire rang out at an Oregon community college this month, most students fled to safety. But Army veteran Chris Mintz dashed from one building to another, warning others about a shooter on campus.Mintz made it out alive, but a tense face off with the gunman left him with five bullet wounds.Nine of his fellow students died in the shooting at Umpqua Community College on October 1.The man who's been called a hero for his bravery detailed his account of what he remembers in a Facebook post Friday.Chuckles and gunfire"It started so normal, the day that is," Mintz said on his Facebook post.Mintz was in his writing class, chuckling with the teacher and other students, when commotion broke out in another room."My teacher walked up to the door that connected our classroom and asked if everyone was OK," he said. "No one could tell what the yelling was."When the teacher knocked, gunshots erupted, like firecrackers. His classmates took off running.And from there on, Mintz assumed a subtle leadership to provide guidance amid the chaos and horror.Library not safe, eitherMintz held open the door to his class and waited for everyone to leave, he said. Once everyone was out, he joined a throng fleeing to the library.But not knowing exactly where the gunman was, a counselor said they may not be safe in the library. Mintz said he volunteered to warn others."I ran in and told everyone they needed to leave and go to the other side of the campus," he wrote. "I ran through the book aisles while yelling and pushed the emergency exits ... open and ran through them and back down towards Snyder Hall."'He's going to shoot you'Snyder Hall is where the gunman was. Mintz was running toward the gunfire.Again, he took it upon himself to look out for others."... People across campus were walking around like nothing was going on, so I continued yelling at them to get out of there to leave," he said.He made his way toward the classrooms, unsure of the gunman's location." I got to a classroom and looked into the door because it had a glass slate," he said. "A guy that was farther away and hiding behind cars startled me and yelled, 'Don't man, he's going to shoot you, man.' "Mintz peered inside and saw a screaming student, covered in blood.'Stay down'"I motioned my finger over my mouth, communicating to be quiet and motioned both my hands down for them to stay down," he posted.At the time, he thought there were only two people in the class. He put his back against the door and waited, he said.Sirens squealed in the distance."You need to go get the cops, tell them where we're at,' " Mintz said he howled at a man in a parking lot.'Nonchalant' shooter emergesAmid the commotion, the shooter appeared from a nearby class, donned in a black shirt and glasses."He leaned half of his torso out and started shooting as I turned toward him," he said. "He was so nonchalant through it all, like he was playing a video game and showed no emotion."The gunman aimed at Mintz and opened fire -- again and again."That's what you get for calling the cops," he said the shooter told him.Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Community members attend a candlelight vigil at Stewart Park for those killed during a shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, on Thursday, October 1. The massacre left nine people dead and nine wounded. The gunman also died. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college In response to the shooting on October 1, President Barack Obama delivers the 15th statement of his presidency addressing gun violence. "Somehow this has become routine," he said. "The reporting is routine. My response here at this podium ends up being routine, the conversation in the aftermath of it. We've become numb to this." Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Students and faculty are reunited with friends and family at the county fairgrounds on October 1. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college People wait for information at the fairgrounds on October 1. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Hannah Miles, center, is reunited with her sister Hailey and father, Gary, on October 1. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college A student waits to walk off a school bus at the fairgrounds on October 1. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Friends and family are reunited on October 1. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college A woman is comforted after the deadly shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, on October 1. Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin announced at a news conference that the shooter was dead. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Authorities secure the campus after the shooting on October 1. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Students, staff and faculty leave the school on October 1. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college A bullet casing is marked at the scene of the shooting on October 1. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college People gather at a roadblock near the entrance to the college on October 1. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Authorities respond after reports of the shooting on October 1. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college Police search students outside the school on October 1. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Shooting at Oregon community college A patient is wheeled into the emergency room at Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg on October 1. Hide Caption 15 of 15He pleaded that he did not call the police as the gunman aimed again -- first at his phone, then at him."I yelled, 'It's my kid's birthday man,' " he said. The gunman turned around and went back to the class, but not before wounding Mintz.Bullets had ripped through his left leg, right leg, abdomen, shoulder blade and left finger."When I moved, pain shot through me like a bomb going off," Mintz said.He sat there in pain and watched as officers in tactical gear stormed in. Students scuttled out of the classroom, some covered in blood. A friend saw him and broke down into tears." I think she tried to pray with me, the only thing I could say was 'it's my son's birthday. Please call my son's mom and tell her I can't pick him up from school today,' " he said.The gunman, Chris Harper Mercer, killed himself when police closed in.Saying he is on the road to recovery, Mintz thanked police, hospital workers and other first responders. "They are the real heroes, they saved us," he said.He wonders how he made it out alive."I'm still confused why he didn't shoot me again," Mintz said.