It's Friday, and here are five things to know for your new day.OREGON COLLEGE SHOOTING: The gunman whose rampage yesterday left 10 people dead targeted Christians. That's what the father of one of the wounded students says. It's just another shocking turn in yet another shocking school shooting that's rocked the nation. The gunman was killed, leaving investigators to hunt for clues to piece together what may have drove him to inflict such violence on a college campus.JUST WATCHED 10 killed in Oregon community college shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 10 killed in Oregon community college shooting 01:27PRESIDENT OBAMAVent: The President did something yesterday he's done 14 times before in his presidency: The President did something yesterday he's done 14 times before in his presidency: address the nation after a mass shooting. Obama seemed both sad and angry as he noted that such shootings had happened so many times during his time in office that they almost seemed normal. "Somehow this has become routine. The reporting is routine. My response here at this podium ends up being routine, the conversation in the aftermath of it ... We have become numb to this," he complained. He did not, however, talk of details of a new push to get gun control legislation passed.JUST WATCHED Obama, visibly upset, responds to Oregon shooting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Obama, visibly upset, responds to Oregon shooting 12:30AFGHANISTANCrash: Eleven people died yesterday when a U.S. Eleven people died yesterday when a U.S. C-130 plane crashed in Afghanistan. The accident happened near the Afghan-Pakistani border, and the cause of the accident is not yet known, though U.S. military officials were quick to say they don't think it was caused by enemy fire. Six U.S. servicemembers were among the dead, as well as their five passengers.HURRICANE JOAQUINWet: Earlier this week some on the East coast were concerned that Hurricane Joaquin might be the second coming of Superstorm Sandy. Those (slightly exaggerated) concerns can be put to rest, since Joaquin appears to be on a track that will keep the Category 4 storm Earlier this week some on the East coast were concerned that Hurricane Joaquin might be the second coming of Superstorm Sandy. Those (slightly exaggerated) concerns can be put to rest, since Joaquin appears to be on a track that will keep the Category 4 storm well offshore . That doesn't mean that Easterners can now start making outdoor plans for the weekend. Moisture from Joaquin will bring new punch to a weather system that has drenched a good portion of the Mid-Atlantic states. Get ready for a wet end of the week.JUST WATCHED Hurricane Joaquin may bring 15 inches of rainfall Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hurricane Joaquin may bring 15 inches of rainfall 02:08DUNKIN' DONUTSDunked: If there's a Dunkin' Donuts in your neighborhood, you may want to run to it soon, because it may not be there much longer. Dunkin' Brands said one of its franchisees plans to If there's a Dunkin' Donuts in your neighborhood, you may want to run to it soon, because it may not be there much longer. Dunkin' Brands said one of its franchisees plans to close 100 Dunkin' Donuts shops across the country starting this year. A list of stores to be closed was not provided, but Dunkin' Brands said they're all owned by the Speedway gas station chain.