(CNN) Russia strikes in Syria, more Cosby accusers come forward and the East Coast braces for Joaquin.It's Thursday, and here are five things to know for your New Day.SYRIA: How are we supposed to feel about Russian airstrikes in Syria? Don't look to our government for guidance. The White House downplayed it, the State Department said it could be an "opportunity" and the Pentagon slammed the move, saying Russia was inflaming the war there. Glad they're speaking with one voice. There are also questions about who the Russians were targeting. They say they're attacking ISIS, but Defense Secretary Ashton Carter noted yesterday the airstrikes didn't hit anywhere near ISIS-controlled territory.JUST WATCHED Russia runs bombing missions in Syria Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Russia runs bombing missions in Syria 02:55BILL COSBYAccused: Three more women came forward yesterday, accusing Bill Cosby of sexually inappropriate behavior. Their claims are similar to the allegations made by more than 40 women who have accused the comedian: They believe they were drugged; they think Cosby assaulted them. One of the new accusers said Cosby tried to kiss her during an "acting exercise." Another believes he stole her panties. Cosby has denied the allegations and has never been charged. He does have a deposition October 9 in a civil lawsuit that alleges he sexually abused a teen girl more than 40 years ago.JUST WATCHED New Cosby accuser : I want to support the other victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New Cosby accuser : I want to support the other victims 03:51CAMPAIGN 2016OK, but ... : Donald Trump says Muslims are "phenomenal," but some of them could be a problem. That's the main takeaway from Trump's Donald Trump says Muslims are "phenomenal," but some of them could be a problem. That's the main takeaway from Trump's interview with CNN's Don Lemon yesterday. Trump also said he wouldn't handle any differently the situation that brought his views on Muslims to the forefront -- a town hall question where a man erroneously called President Obama a Muslim and expressed distrust of them.JUST WATCHED Trump:' Most Muslims, I know many, are great people.' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump:' Most Muslims, I know many, are great people.' 01:42AFGHANISTANTaken: Afghan forces Afghan forces drove the Taliban out of Kunduz yesterday, just two days after the militants took over the provincial capital. The U.S. helped by conducting airstrikes and using advisers on the ground. An Interior Ministry spokesman said Taliban insurgents suffered heavy casualties in the fighting.Afghan special forces arrive at the airport as they launch a counteroffensive to retake the city from Taliban insurgents, in Kunduz on Septmber 29, 2015HURRICANE JOAQUINStrengthened: The Bahamas is now dealing with a Category 3 storm, and -- if Joaquin hits the U.S. later this week as many suspect -- the East Coast will be facing an even stronger storm. And that's bad news for places like North Carolina, already drenched and flooded from heavy rains. If Joaquin makes a U.S. landfall, it would be the first hurricane to do so since Hurricane Arthur in July 2014.