(CNN) It's game on for the Democrats. The Syrian rebels get a massive weapons dump. And skin is passé at Playboy.It's Tuesday, and here are five things to know for your new day.DEMOCRATIC DEBATEWe've already heard an awful lot from the Republicans who want to take up residence in the White House. Now it's time for the Democrats to belly up to the bar . Tonight's debate pits longtime frontrunner Hillary Clinton against upstart Bernie Sanders. And then there's that unanswered question: Will Joe Biden still join the race? CNN coverage begins tonight at 8:30 p.m. ETSYRIA CIVIL WARMore to fight with: It's funny how a little thing like Russia It's funny how a little thing like Russia stepping into the Syrian civil war can change things. Just ask the rebel groups fighting there. Now that Russia is backing the government, the United States is suddenly showering the rebels with weapons. Let's rephrase that. U.S. military cargo planes airdropped 50 tons of ammunition to rebels to help in their battle against the Assad regime. The weapons included things like small arms ammo and other items like hand grenades.JUST WATCHED U.S. supplies Syrian rebels with 50 tons of ammo Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH U.S. supplies Syrian rebels with 50 tons of ammo 01:17CECIL THE LIONHow to get away with murder: The Minnesota dentist who caused all that uproar when he killed Cecil the lion The Minnesota dentist who caused all that uproar when he killed Cecil the lion won't face charges . A Zimbabwean government minister said there's already been plenty of publicity surrounding the beloved big cat's death. Walter Palmer and his family went into hiding when a conservation group reported that Cecil was lured out of a national park and killed. Two Zimbabweans have been charged in the case.JUST WATCHED Zimbabwe won't press charges against lion killer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Zimbabwe won't press charges against lion killer 00:54JASON REZAIANGuilty: Washington Post correspondent Jason Rezaian has been convicted by a Revolutionary Court in Iran. Rezaian was reportedly facing up to 20 years, but the sentence was not specified in Iranian state-run media. The Post called Rezaian's conviction "outrageous." He has already been behind bars for more than a year. Rezaian was taken into custody in July 2014 and later charged with espionage.PLAYBOY COVERS UPWhere's the skin?: It's finally going to be a valid excuse. "I just read Playboy for the articles." The iconic men's magazine said yesterday it's planning to It's finally going to be a valid excuse. "I just read Playboy for the articles." The iconic men's magazine said yesterday it's planning to drop fully naked women from its pages . With porn absolutely everywhere on the Internet, Playboy's chief executive Scott Flanders told The New Times. "It's just passé at this juncture." But we ask: What's next, no roast beef at Arby's. No ham in hamburger. Oh, wait ...Weird to live in a world where you have a better chance of seeing nudity on a tv show about dragons and zombies than in Playboy magazine. — Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) October 13, 2015