(CNN) A S.C. deputy learns his fate. The third GOP debate is tonight. And it took two days to finish World Series Game 1.It's Wednesday, and here are five things to know for your new day.S.C. SCHOOL ARREST VIDEO: Deputy Ben Fields may find out today if he'll keep his job. The South Carolina school resource officer has been suspended without pay since a video surfaced of him yanking a student out of a chair and slamming her to the ground during an arrest. His boss said the video made him want to vomit. Federal investigators have gotten involved. And social media is ablaze with both support and scorn for the officer.JUST WATCHED Sheriff: Unreleased third video shows student resisting arrest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sheriff: Unreleased third video shows student resisting arrest 03:38MIDEASTThree Rs: Is the U.S. about to take things up a notch in the fight against ISIS? Seems like it. Defense Secretary Ashton Carter said yesterday change in policy on ISIS would involve Is the U.S. about to take things up a notch in the fight against ISIS? Seems like it. Defense Secretary Ashton Carter said yesterday change in policy on ISIS would involve "three Rs" -- more raids on ISIS targets, increased pressured on the ISIS stronghold of Raqqa in Syria and more assistance for Iraqi forces trying to retake Ramadi, the capital of Iraq's Anbar province, from ISIS.JUST WATCHED Intel Chair: Obama needs to change strategy vs. ISIS Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Intel Chair: Obama needs to change strategy vs. ISIS 03:40CAMPAIGN 2016GOP get-together: The The third Republican debate is tonight, and this time -- thanks to his uptick in the polls -- it's Ben Carson starring as the man in the middle. How will Donald Trump handle not being the top dog? (Here's a prediction: not well.) Jeb Bush -- sick of shedding money, staff and polling position -- promises no more Mr. Nice Guy. Will voters go for it? And just what the heck's happened to Carly Fiorina since the last debate? She's back down to low single digits in the polls. At any rate, don't be surprised to hear from the Democratic frontrunner tonight. Hillary Clinton plans to air four new TV ads in Iowa and New Hampshire during the debate. Consider that her debate rebuttal.GOP debate cnn debate 8p 16_00000105.jpgCLIMATEToo hot: Are parts of the Middle East becoming too hot to handle? Not in terms of political unrest or war, but in terms of climate change. Are parts of the Middle East becoming too hot to handle? Not in terms of political unrest or war, but in terms of climate change. A study from Loyola Marymount University and MIT says climate change would leave major cities in the Persian Gulf region unfit for human survival, because the temperatures during the summer will simply be too hot. The study says the unsurvivable threshold could be reach as soon as 2100.SPORTSHello, goodbye: If Game 1 was any indication, this year's World Series is going to be a classic. The Kansas City Royals outlasted the New York Mets If Game 1 was any indication, this year's World Series is going to be a classic. The Kansas City Royals outlasted the New York Mets 5-4 in 14 innings early this morning to win Game 1 of the series. The longest Game 1 in World Series history also featured the series' first inside-the-park home run in decades. Game 2's first pitch is at 8 tonight ET, so we hope you got some sleep. As baseball said hello to the Fall Classic, soccer says goodbye to one of its all-time greats. Abby Wambach, star forward for the U.S. women's national team and the leading scorer in international soccer, said yesterday that she'll retire in December . Wambach played in four World Cups and scored 184 goals in 15 years with the national team.