Charleston, South Carolina (CNN) South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley didn't mince any words Sunday about just how dangerous a situation the weather -- which was blamed for five deaths in the state by Sunday night -- had become in her state."We are at a 1,000-year level of rain," Haley said at an afternoon news conference. "That's how big this is."It wasn't hyperbole.Since weather records don't go back far enough to know if it's rained this much in South Carolina in a 1,000 years, a "thousand-year rainfall" means that the amount of rainfall in South Carolina has a 1-in-1,000 chance of happening in any given year, explained CNN meteorologist Taylor Ward.Certain areas of South Carolina had never before been deluged with such eye-popping rainfall tallies: more than 24 inches in Mount Pleasant, nearly 20 inches in areas around Charleston and more than 18 inches in the Gills Creek area of Columbia, according to Ward.Steven Pfaff of the National Weather Service said the "phenomenal amount of rainfall" was "a very dangerous situation.""Flash flood warnings have been issued and many areas that received a large amount of rainfall 24 hours ago are being hit hard again," said Plaff . "This is an extremely dangerous situation in those areas."Haley: keep off the roadsBut the torrential rain was more than just dangerous. It was deadly.The weather is being blamed for five deaths along South Carolina roadways, according to Derrec Becker of the South Carolina Emergency Management Division.Three of those deaths were reported by the South Carolina Highway Patrol, and two by the Richland County Sheriff's Department, according to Becker.The weather service issued a public service announcement video reminding people not to drive through rushing waters, no matter how shallow the water appears to be. "Do not attempt to drive into flooded roadways ... it takes just 12 inches of flowing water to carry off a small car. Turn around, don't drown," it said."Regardless of where you are in the state, stay home," implored the governor. "Stay off the roadways."But many didn't heed their call.Becker said that 315 vehicle collisions occurred in one 12-hour period on Sunday, and Haley said that more than 750 motorists called for assistance during that same stretch.Perhaps that is why Haley went beyond simply urging South Carolinians to stay off the roads in some areas. In Columbia, for example -- a city that had the rainiest day in its history Sunday according to the National Weather Service -- Haley made sure of it by closing all interstates in and around the capital city."This is an incident we've never dealt with before," she said.Today has been the wettest day in Columbia history. 6.71" has fallen so far at CAE. The old record was 5.79" set Jul 9 1959 #SEflood #scwx — NWS Columbia (@NWSColumbia) October 4, 2015National Guard deployedHaley announced Sunday that in addition to the eight swift water rescue teams and 11 aircraft, 600 National Guardsmen had been deployed to assist in rescues and evacuations, and that hundreds more were on standby.The day before, President Barack Obama signed a statewide emergency declaration retroactive to Thursday, authorizing federal aid in anticipation of more rain.Haley also said several fellow states, including North Carolina, Tennessee and Florida had lent resources as well.Not over yetThe weather service forecast "catastrophic flash flooding" overnight into Monday in Berkeley County in South Carolina, where more than 18 inches of rain had fallen in 24 hours, according to the CNN Weather Center."It's not over," warned Haley. "We are in the middle of it...we have another 24 hours of this."Northeast on deckThe wet misery isn't just limited to South Carolina; as of Sunday evening, both Carolinas, New Jersey and Virginia were under states of emergency, and the weather service has issued flood watches stretching from Georgia to Delaware.But Hurricane Joaquin, downgraded to Category 3 strength earlier in the day Sunday and only expected to continue to weaken, isn't necessarily the culprit -- it's coming from two sources.The low pressure area associated with the rain soaking the Carolinas is funneling heavy tropical moisture into the region, creating the torrential rainfall, the CNN Weather Center said.While Hurricane Joaquin is predicted to miss the U.S., water connected to the storm is feeding torrential rain on the East Coast.The moisture the storm is pulling in is also associated with Hurricane Joaquin, but the two systems shouldn't be confused.Joaquin inched northward in the Atlantic on Sunday, but luckily away from U.S. shores. However, the storm is expected to push in a storm surge in the Northeast as it passes, resulting in a one-two water punch."Life-threatening rip currents, high surf and coastal flooding, mainly at high tides, will stretch nearly the entire eastern U.S. coast," CNN meteorologist Michael Guy said.Photos: Storms flood East Coast Photos: Storms flood East Coast This aerial photo shows flooding around Aberdeen Country Club in Longs, South Carolina, on Tuesday, October 6. South Carolina experienced record rainfall amounts over the weekend, forcing hundreds of evacuations and rescues. Hide Caption 1 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast A woman uses her boat to check on neighbors and see if they want to evacuate in Summerville, South Carolina, on Monday, October 5. Hide Caption 2 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Police officers carry a woman to dry land after she was rescued from her home in the St. Andrews area of Columbia, South Carolina, on October 5. Hide Caption 3 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Neighbors and friends help clean up a home affected by flooding in Columbia on October 5. Hide Caption 4 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Five-month-old Jeremiah Odum, left, and his 2-year-old brother, Braxton Odum, nap on a cot in a high school gymnasium being used as a Red Cross shelter for flood evacuees in Rowesville, South Carolina, on October 5. Hide Caption 5 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Rescue teams wait for an emergency vehicle in the Forest Acres neighborhood of Columbia on Monday, October 5. Hide Caption 6 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast An oil sheen floats atop floodwater in a subdivision west of the Ashley River in Charleston, South Carolina, on October 5. Hide Caption 7 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast A dog is cut off from its home in Florence, South Carolina, on October 5. Florence is about 85 miles east of the capital city, Columbia. Hide Caption 8 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Hunter Baker drives his boat down a flooded East Black Creek Road to his home following heavy rains in Florence on October 5. Hide Caption 9 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast A man makes his way through floodwaters in the parking lot of The Citadel Beach Club on Isle of Palms, South Carolina, on October 5. Charleston and surrounding areas are still struggling with flooding, as are areas 100 miles inland. Hide Caption 10 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Members of Norfolk Fire-Rescue pull a man from his car in Norfolk, Virginia, on Sunday, October 4. Hide Caption 11 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast David Linnen takes a yard rake to clear drains in front of the Winyah Apartments in Georgetown, South Carolina, on October 4. Hide Caption 12 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Charlene Stennis is escorted to safety after her son was rescued from a stranded vehicle during the heavy rains on October 4 in Columbia, South Carolina. Hide Caption 13 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast The roof of a submerged vehicle peeks above the flood waters on October 4 in Columbia, South Carolina. Hide Caption 14 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Tripp Adams, 8, walks through flood waters in Georgetown, South Carolina, on October 4. Hide Caption 15 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast A person walks through the flooded Market and Water streets in downtown Wilmington, North Carolina, on October 4. Hide Caption 16 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Neighbors watch employees with the city of Isle of Palms, South Carolina, cut a live oak tree that fell after heavy rain on October 4. Hide Caption 17 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast A man watches as a vehicle tries to navigate flood waters in Florence, South Carolina, on October 4. Hide Caption 18 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Two men row a boat on a flooded street in downtown Charleston, South Carolina, on October 4. Hide Caption 19 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Police block an entrance to Highway 17 in Charleston, South Carolina, on October 4. Hide Caption 20 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast A man paddles up to a flooded store in Columbia, South Carolina, on October 4. Hide Caption 21 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast A firefighter walks down a flooded street in downtown Charleston, South Carolina, on October 4. Hide Caption 22 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast A worker cleans a drain on a flooded street in downtown Charleston, South Carolina, on Saturday, October 3. Hide Caption 23 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast A utility worker examines the damage to a home Charlotte, North Carolina, on October 3. Hide Caption 24 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast A motorist turns back as floodwater rises in Harrisburg, North Carolina, on October 3. Hide Caption 25 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast A woman walks through One City Plaza in downtown Greenville, South Carolina, as rain and wind pound the area on October 3. Hide Caption 26 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Bob Ashbaugh, from Pittsburgh, takes video of waves crashing over homes at risk from erosion during high tide in Isle of Palms, South Carolina, on October 3. Hide Caption 27 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Stuart Tait ties together wood after his house collapsed into an inlet on Grassy Sound during high tide on October 3 north of North Wildwood, New Jersey. Hide Caption 28 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Will Cunningham, 14, rides his bike down Station 29 on Sullivan's Island, South Carolina, ahead of his paddling friend Patrick Kelly, 14, on October 3. Hide Caption 29 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Paul Banker paddles a kayak as his wife, Wink Banker, takes photos on a flooded street in Charleston, South Carolina, on October 3. Hide Caption 30 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Up to 4 inches of rain could strike the waterfront between Georgia and New Jersey. Motorists deal with the conditions on Friday, October 2, in Seaside Heights, New Jersey. Hide Caption 31 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Workers install a flood barrier at the entrance to the Market Pavilion Hotel in downtown Charleston, South Carolina, on Friday, October 2. Parts of the South Carolina coast braced for likely flooding. Hide Caption 32 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Flooding engulfs a neighborhood in the Strathmere section of Upper Township, New Jersey, on October 2. Hide Caption 33 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Sandbags surround a building in Old Town Alexandria, Virginia. Hide Caption 34 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast A man closes a storefront on October 2 in Seaside Heights, New Jersey. Hide Caption 35 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Floodwater rises along Central Avenue in Sea Isle City, New Jersey, on October 2. Hide Caption 36 of 37 Photos: Storms flood East Coast Cars negotiate flooded streets on October 2 in Midland Beach on Staten Island, New York. Hide Caption 37 of 37