Story highlights On Saturday, public media stations will mark American Graduate Day with reports on programs that support educationSoledad O'Brien urges readers to help students get to and through high school and collegeShe cites research on how mentoring and educational enrichment improve outcomesSoledad O'Brien is a former CNN anchor and current CEO of Starfish Media Group. O'Brien is host of American Graduate Day, airing Saturday, October 3, on public media. American Graduate Day is part of an initiative to help communities implement solutions to the high school dropout crisis. The program focuses on graduation rates and the role mentoring plays to bridge gaps in communities.(CNN) My parents were hardworking educators. My dad was an engineering professor for more than 49 years. My mother, born in Cuba, taught high school Spanish and French. My five brothers and sisters and I grew up solidly middle-class, all of us studious and lucky to have parents familiar enough with the educational system (both had multiple degrees) to help us navigate middle school math and college applications in high school. Their love of education, and the strong value they placed on it, made us who we are today. We all have degrees from Harvard University. Everyone but me has a J.D. or an M.D. after his or her name.When I became a journalist, I began to meet so many young women who didn't have that kind of support in their lives -- like Tierra Moore, a wonderfully gifted young woman from California who was on the verge of dropping out of UCLA. The school had raised the tuition $500, she told me, and even working three jobs (plus taking a full load of courses), she couldn't close the gap. She needed guidance too, a mentor who could help her strategize.My experience with girls like Tierra is what drives me to join in American Graduate Day: Let's Make it Happen , a public media commitment to community-based solutions to the dropout crisis -- because I want to encourage you to join me in helping young people like Tierra get to and through high school and college.On October 3, more than 100 public media stations are going to do national and local reporting on successful programs to discourage dropping out, hold public forums to facilitate conversations between educators or community leaders, and promote educational programs and free resources, like PBS Kids, that create high-level learning materials.The goal is to encourage people to become champions of education, to get involved in mentoring and tutoring, and to help organizations achieve their goals through financial support or by donating time and effort.Read More