(CNN) The Joe Biden watch continues. Canada has a new leader. And "Stars Wars" mania is officially in full swing.It's Tuesday, and here are five things to know for your new day.CAMPAIGN 2016Joe Biden bid in the offing? A Pennsylvania congressman tweeted yesterday that Biden's going to run. The vice president still hasn't said so himself, but last night he met with his top political advisers , and his associates are setting up interviews for potential staffers on a Biden campaign. Meanwhile, if the Democrats gain Biden in the race, they may lose Jim Webb, who is reportedly holding a news conference later today to announce he's still in the race -- but as an independent , not a Democrat.JUST WATCHED Source: Biden team interviewing potential staffers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Source: Biden team interviewing potential staffers 02:09ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN TENSIONSViolence: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu asked people yesterday not to take justice into their own hands amid the uptick in violence in his country. This comes after an Eritrean migrant -- mistaken for a second attacker in a bus station shooting -- was killed after a mob beating. Netanyahu stressed that Israel is "a country of law. No one will take the law into his own hands."JUST WATCHED Migrant mistaken for terrorist shot and beaten to death Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Migrant mistaken for terrorist shot and beaten to death 02:03CANADA ELECTIONSBrand new day: For the first time in a decade, Canada has a new leader -- and a Liberal to boot. Justin Trudeau, son of former Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, and his Liberal party For the first time in a decade, Canada has a new leader -- and a Liberal to boot. Justin Trudeau, son of former Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, and his Liberal party won an absolute majority in Canada's general election last night, shocking incumbent Prime Minister Stephen Harper and his Conservative party. Harper conceded defeat but said he'll remain in parliament as a lawmaker. Trudeau told his jubilant supporters that the election victory was the result of "positive politics" and that "I didn't make history tonight, you did."JUST WATCHED Canada votes first new leader in 10 years Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Canada votes first new leader in 10 years 01:06LAMAR ODOMRecovering: The former NBA star was Theformer NBA star was flown by medical helicopter overnight to a hospital in Los Angeles to continue his recovery. Jim Harrick, Odom's former college coach, said he had made "a little bit of progress" yesterday and he told Khloe Kardashian, "I love you." Odom also told her "Good morning!" before going back to sleep, Harrick said he was told by Kardashian.Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Lamar Odom dribbles the ball during an NBA game against the Denver Nuggets in November 2010. Odom, who won two championships during his career and later married reality TV star Khloe Kardashian, was hospitalized Tuesday, October 13, after he was found unconscious at a brothel in Nevada. On October 19, Odom was transferred to a Los Angeles hospital where he is reportedly breathing on his own. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom laughs during a game with the University of Rhode Island in November 1998. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom shakes hands with NBA Commissioner David Stern during the 1999 NBA Draft. Odom was drafted by the Los Angeles Clippers. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom goes for a dunk during a game in 2000. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom huddles with his Clippers teammates before a game in December 2002. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom plays for the Miami Heat in December 2003. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom pauses during a game in January 2004. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom speaks to the press as a Los Angeles Laker in October 2005. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom sits next to the Larry O'Brien Trophy during the Lakers' flight back to Los Angeles in June 2009. The Lakers defeated the Orlando Magic for the NBA championship. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom hoists the Larry O'Brien Trophy while riding in the Lakers' victory parade in June 2010. The Lakers defeated the Boston Celtics for a second straight championship. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Chauncey Billups, left, and Odom hold a trophy after the U.S. team won at the 2010 World Championships. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom receives the Sixth Man of the Year Award from Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak in April 2011. The award honors the NBA's best player in a reserve role. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom From left, Rob Kardashian, Odom, Khloe Kardashian, Kourtney Kardashian and Kim Kardashian pose for photographers during an event in Los Angeles in April 2011. Odom was married to Khloe, and he was featured in the reality show "Keeping Up With the Kardashians" as well as the couple's own reality show, "Khloe & Lamar," which lasted two seasons. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Odom plays for Spanish basketball club Laboral Kutxa during a Euroleague game in Vitoria, Spain, in February 2014. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Former NBA star Lamar Odom Kris Jenner, left, and Kim Kardashian leave Sunrise Hospital & Medical Center in Las Vegas where Odom was being treated on Wednesday, October 14. Hide Caption 15 of 15'STAR WARS' TRAILER