It's Monday, and here are five things to know for your new day.U.S. RAID: What's it like to rescue prisoners during a firefight? A video released over the weekend shows what it looked like when U.S., Kurdish and Iraqi forces freed about 70 hostages from an ISIS prison last week. Gunfire provides a kinetic soundtrack to the video. Soldiers are seen ushering frightened men through the prison's halls. Another video shows coalition aircraft later destroying the prison.JUST WATCHED Video reportedly shows raid against ISIS Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video reportedly shows raid against ISIS 01:58OKLAHOMA PARADE CRASHCharged: Adacia Chambers faces four counts of second-degree murder. She's the woman who police say was driving under the influence and Adacia Chambers faces four counts of second-degree murder. She's the woman who police say was driving under the influence and plowed her car into a homecoming parade crowd Saturday at Oklahoma State University. Dozens more were injured, many seriously. She is set to appear in court today.JUST WATCHED Video shows moment of Oklahoma State parade crash Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video shows moment of Oklahoma State parade crash 01:43TEXAS FLOODINGWet: The rain is not going away in Texas. Up to 20 inches have fallen over parts of the state the last couple of days. And the The rain is not going away in Texas. Up to 20 inches have fallen over parts of the state the last couple of days. And the rain should continue unabated through part of this week. Coastal high winds aren't helping, contributing to coastal flooding that pushes inland. The source of the wet weather is two-fold: A weather system that hovered over Texas and neighboring states combined with the remnants of Hurricane Patricia to deliver a wet, 1-2 punch to the state.JUST WATCHED Torrential rain continues to fall in Texas Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Torrential rain continues to fall in Texas 01:04CAMPAIGN 2016Tough guy: Donald Trump taunted Ben Carson last week, saying the ex-neurosurgeon was "super low energy." So how did Donald Trump taunted Ben Carson last week, saying the ex-neurosurgeon was "super low energy." So how did Carson respond ? By bragging about what a badass he used to be as a teen. "As a teenager, I would go after people with rocks, and bricks, and baseball bats, and hammers," Carson said yesterday. "And, of course, many people know the story when I was 14 and I tried to stab someone." Well that's real presidential. Can't wait for the "Saturday Night Live" skit on this one.JUST WATCHED Ben Carson talks about his violent past Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ben Carson talks about his violent past 00:58SPACE