(CNN) Here is a look at the 2017 Atlantic hurricane season .Facts:The 2017 Atlantic hurricane season runs from June 1 to November 30. The areas covered include the North Atlantic Ocean, Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean Sea.Last Look: Can you control a hurricane?Last Look: Can you control a hurricane? 01:29Last Look: Can you control a hurricane?The National Weather Service defines a hurricane as "an intense tropical weather system with well-defined circulation and sustained winds of 74 mph (64 knots) or higher."Hurricanes are rated according to intensity on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale.The 1-5 scale estimates potential property damage.A Category 3 or higher is considered a major hurricane.The National Hurricane Center advises preparednessA hurricane watch indicates the possibility that a region could experience hurricane conditions within 48 hours.A hurricane warning indicates that sustained winds of at least 74 mph are expected within 36 hours.Predictions:April 6, 2017 - The Tropical Meteorology Project from Colorado State University predicts that the The Tropical Meteorology Project from Colorado State University predicts that the "2017 Atlantic basin hurricane season will have slightly below-average activity." They predict a total of 11 named storms and four hurricanes.May 25, 2017 - The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) forecasts a 45% chance for an above-normal season , predicting that there is a 70% chance of having 11 to 17 named storms, of which five to nine could develop into hurricanes, including two to four major hurricanes (categories 3-5).Tropical Storm ArleneApril 20, 2017 - Tropical Storm Arlene forms in the central Atlantic Ocean. According to the National Hurricane Center,April 21, 2017 - Arlene moves southwest and south until it dissipates. Tropical Storm Arlene forms in the central Atlantic Ocean. According to the National Hurricane Center, April tropical storms are rare , and this is only the second one (the first was 2003's Tropical Storm Ana ) since the use of satellite.Arlene moves southwest and south until it dissipates.Tropical Storm BretJune 19, 2017 - Tropical Storm Bret forms about 125 miles southeast of Trinidad.June 20, 2017 - Weakens into a tropical wave. Tropical Storm Bret forms about 125 miles southeast of Trinidad.Weakens into a tropical wave.Tropical Storm CindyJune 20, 2017 - Tropical Storm Cindy forms in the Gulf of Mexico, about 265 miles south of Morgan City, Louisiana.June 22, 2017 - just south of Lake Charles, Louisiana. Later weakens to a tropical depression. Tropical Storm Cindy forms in the Gulf of Mexico, about 265 miles south of Morgan City, Louisiana. Makes landfall just south of Lake Charles, Louisiana. Later weakens to a tropical depression.Tropical Storm EmilyJuly 31, 2017 - Tropical Storm Emily forms near the west coast of Florida and makes landfall on Anna Maria Island. Weakens to a tropical depression after making landfall. Tropical Storm Emily forms near the west coast of Florida and makes landfall on Anna Maria Island. Weakens to a tropical depression after making landfall.Hurricane FranklinAugust 6, 2017 - Tropical Storm Franklin forms over the northwestern Caribbean.August 7, 2017 - Makes landfall on the eastern coast of the Yucatan Peninsula.August 9, 2017 - Franklin becomes a Category 1 hurricane about 105 miles northeast of Veracruz, Mexico.August 10, 2017 - Makes landfall in Veracruz, Mexico. Later, Franklin weakens to a tropical storm and then dissipates. Tropical Storm Franklin forms over the northwestern Caribbean.Makes landfall on the eastern coast of the Yucatan Peninsula.Franklin becomes a Category 1 hurricane about 105 miles northeast of Veracruz, Mexico.Makes landfall in Veracruz, Mexico. Later, Franklin weakens to a tropical storm and then dissipates.Hurricane GertAugust 13, 2017 - Tropical Storm Gert forms in the Atlantic Ocean.August 14, 2017 - Gert becomes a hurricane, the second of the season.August 17, 2017 - Weakens to a post-tropical cyclone. Tropical Storm Gert forms in the Atlantic Ocean.Gert becomes a hurricane, the second of the season.Weakens to a post-tropical cyclone.Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Downtown Houston is seen behind the flooded Buffalo Bayou a few days after Hurricane Harvey came ashore in August 2017. The Category 4 storm caused historic flooding. It set a record for the most rainfall from a tropical cyclone in the continental United States, with 51 inches of rain recorded in areas of Texas. An estimated 27 trillion gallons of water fell over Texas and Louisiana during a six-day period. Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas NASA astronaut Jack Fischer photographed Hurricane Harvey from the International Space Station. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Steve Culver comforts his dog Otis in the hurricane aftermath. Harvey destroyed most of his home in Rockport while he and his wife were there. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Houston police officer Daryl Hudeck carries Catherine Pham and her 13-month-old son, Aiden, after rescuing them from floodwaters. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas A damaged home is seen in the Key Allegro neighborhood of Rockport. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas A car is submerged by floodwaters on a freeway near downtown Houston. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Melani Zurawski cries while inspecting her home in Port Aransas, Texas. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas A graveyard is flooded in Pearland, Texas. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Soldiers with the National Guard patrol Rockport, looking for residents trapped in their homes. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Evacuees are loaded onto a truck in Houston. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas People push a stalled pickup through a flooded street in Houston. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Rockport residents return to their destroyed home. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Rescue boats fill Tidwell Road in Houston as they help flood victims evacuate the area. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas People wait to be rescued from their flooded home in Houston. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Volunteers in Dallas organize items donated for hurricane victims. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas When Harvey slammed the Texas coast and flooded much of Houston, volunteers sprang into action. Some came from as far away as the Florida Everglades, boats in tow, ready to rescue people trapped in their homes. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Larry Koser Jr. and his son Matthew look for important papers and heirlooms inside a flooded home in Houston. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Members of the National Guard rest at a furniture store in Richmond, Texas. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Volunteer rescue workers help a woman from her flooded home in Port Arthur, Texas. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas This aerial photo shows flooded residential neighborhoods in Houston. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas Tammy Dominguez and her husband, Christopher, sleep on cots at the George R. Brown Convention Center, where thousands of people were taking shelter in Houston. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Hurricane Harvey slams Texas An elderly patient waits to be rescued from the Gulf Health Care Center in Port Arthur. The facility was evacuated with the help of first responders and volunteers. Hide Caption 22 of 22Tropical Storm PhilippeOctober 28, 2017 - Tropical Storm Philippe forms in the Atlantic Ocean. It dissipates the following day. Tropical Storm Philippe forms in the Atlantic Ocean. It dissipates the following day.SeanTammyVinceWhitney