(CNN) Meet the award-winning chef who favors Philly's cuisine scene over the Big Apple's. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White HousePresident Trump said payments made to two women during the 2016 presidential election weren't illegal because they came from him and not from his campaign funds. Trump said this during an interview taped Wednesday with Fox News that's due to air this morning. Trump's ex-attorney, Michael Cohen, pleaded guilty to campaign finance violations tied to the payments, and he said he knowingly violated the law at the President's direction.As Trump tried to explain all this, the White House struggled to defend him. Press secretary Sarah Sanders said Trump "did nothing wrong" with the payments and dismissed as "ridiculous" reporters' questions about whether the President had lied about what and when he knew about the payments. Trump and his White House also are sticking to their game plan of attacking special counsel Robert Mueller, as evidenced by this all-caps tweet Trump sent out at about 1 a.m. (!!!!): "NO COLLUSION - RIGGED WITCH HUNT!"2. TariffsNew shots in the trade war were fired right at midnight Eastern time. That's when new tariffs on Chinese goods started . The 25% tariffs on $16 billion worth of Chinese products affect 279 items, like chemical products, motorcycles, speedometers and antennas. China, as it had threatened , immediately responded with 25% tariffs of its own on American-made goods, like chemical products and diesel fuel. Many American companies are worried about this tariff tiff, saying they won't be able to absorb the extra costs without raising prices on customers.JUST WATCHED On GPS: Will tariffs bring China to the table? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH On GPS: Will tariffs bring China to the table? 02:103. VerizonIt's an absolutely stunning accusation. A fire department in Northern California says Verizon slowed its wireless data speeds so much last month that firefighters battling the state's largest-ever wildfire almost couldn't communicate . The allegation is contained in a court filing from the Santa Clara County Fire Department. Fire Chief Anthony Bowden said his department had to use other agencies' internet connections or their own personal devices to stay in touch while fighting the Mendocino Complex Fire. An email chain included in court records showed that Verizon didn't increase data speeds until the department paid for a more expensive plan. A Verizon spokeswoman admitted a mistake, saying the company "should have lifted the speed restriction" during the emergency.JUST WATCHED Mendocino Fire is largest in California history Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mendocino Fire is largest in California history 00:484. Mollie TibbettsCristhian Bahena Rivera, the man accused of killing college student Mollie Tibbetts, worked for years on an Iowa farm based on false IDs. Rivera was charged with first-degree murder in Tibbetts' death and his bond set at $5 million. The farm where he worked for four years said he provided a state ID and Social Security card that weren't his. Rivera's attorney said he came to the US illegally as a minor but had held a job in the community and had no prior criminal record. Tibbetts' relatives thanked supporters and expressed their heartbreak, saying they would "carry Mollie in our hearts forever."JUST WATCHED Mollie Tibbetts murder enters political fray against family's wishes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mollie Tibbetts murder enters political fray against family's wishes 03:525. Hurricane LaneSchools and government offices are closed in Hawaii as Hurricane Lane takes aim at the Aloha State. Lane's a dangerous Category 4 storm that could make landfall between now and Saturday across the islands. Even if it doesn't, it'll draw close enough to bring destructive winds and as much as 20 inches of rain in some places. The governor told residents to have two weeks' worth of supplies ready. As of this morning, Lane is still about 350 miles south of Honolulu with max sustained winds of 145 miles per hour. You can track the storm here . Warmer water and other factors explain why the Pacific is having a much busier hurricane season than the Atlantic.JUST WATCHED Hawaii residents brace for Cat. 4 hurricane Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hawaii residents brace for Cat. 4 hurricane 01:56BREAKFAST BROWSELet's do it againFresh off its bigger-than-expected box office triumph, the folks behind "Crazy Rich Asians" are already planning a sequelJUST WATCHED 'Crazy Rich Asians' director on film's success Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Crazy Rich Asians' director on film's success 01:41Out with a bangGet ready to say good-bye to Sheldon and the gang. The next season of "The Big Bang Theory" -- season No. 12 -- will be the last for the hit sitcom.JUST WATCHED 'Big Bang Theory' season ends with a wedding Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Big Bang Theory' season ends with a wedding 01:13Legendary match-upNothing says Thanksgiving like watching two golfers duke it out for $9 million . That's what we'll get when Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson face off in "The Match."JUST WATCHED What's Tiger Woods really like? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What's Tiger Woods really like? 06:12Wake-up callYour teens are just as sick of their phones as you are , and if they ever lift their eyes from their devices, they'd tell you themselves.JUST WATCHED The science behind why you can't put down your phone Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The science behind why you can't put down your phone 01:36The robots are comingThese robotic dogs, while impressive, may be too complex and expensive for practical applications. Excuse us if we don't cry for them.TODAY'S QUOTE"Any time they don't leave a trust or will, there always ends up being a fight."Don Wilson, Aretha Franklin's attorney, on the battle brewing within the late singer's family after word got out she didn't have a will or trustJUST WATCHED Hear Aretha Franklin's greatest songs Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hear Aretha Franklin's greatest songs 02:24TODAY'S NUMBER3The number of games for which Ohio State head football coach Urban Meyer will be suspended without pay. The university says he's being punished for not taking "sufficient management action" against a former assistant coach accused of abusing his wife.JUST WATCHED Urban Meyer: I am deeply sorry Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Urban Meyer: I am deeply sorry 02:07AND FINALLYMom knows best