(CNN) The worst flooding in a century has ravaged India's southwestern state of Kerala, killing hundreds and forcing thousands to take shelter in relief camps. Here's how you can help . And here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Michael Cohen & Paul ManafortIf this were an episode of "House of Cards" or "The West Wing," we would all yell that the writers had jumped the shark. But this is real. Two men close to President Trump became convicted felons yesterday at almost the same time . Trump's former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, was convicted on eight counts of financial crimes (the jury deadlocked on 10 other counts), while ex-Trump lawyer and fixer Michael Cohen pleaded guilty to eight criminal counts , including tax fraud and campaign finance violations. And, oh yeah, he dropped a bombshell: He admitted in court that he committed some of these crimes "in coordination and at the direction of a candidate for federal office." That would be one Donald J. Trump.CNN's Stephen Collinson said the whiplash events of the day had the feel of a TV season finale . And like all good finales, it presented new questions as it answered old ones: How much legal jeopardy is the President in? Will these convictions embolden special counsel Robert Mueller to turn up the heat on Cohen and Manafort in the Russia probe (which you can track here )? Are Democrats guaranteed to impeach Trump if they win the House in November? And what will Trump's Twitter feed look like today? The President said almost nothing about Cohen or Manafort during his rally last night in West Virginia (though the crowd did do -- we kid you not -- a "lock her up" chant at the mention of Hillary Clinton's name). Collinson also wrote that the day's events prove that, even in the Trump era, "truth and facts still matter in America."2. Social mediaFacebook's not playing around in its quest to rid itself of troublesome pages. The social media giant took down another 652 pages that it said were part of coordinated disinformation campaigns in the US, the UK, Latin America and the Middle East. The pages were linked to Iran and Russia. Twitter's doing it, too, getting rid of 284 Iranian-linked accounts that it said were being used for "coordinated manipulation." Social media companies are scrambling to protect their platforms ahead of November's midterms to stop a repeat of online meddling that occurred during the 2016 presidential election.JUST WATCHED Facebook finds 'inauthentic behavior' ahead of midterms Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Facebook finds 'inauthentic behavior' ahead of midterms 02:463. Mollie TibbettsJUST WATCHED Mollie Tibbetts' body believed found Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mollie Tibbetts' body believed found 01:414. Pope FrancisJUST WATCHED Pope on sex abuse report: 'We abandoned the little ones' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pope on sex abuse report: 'We abandoned the little ones' 00:515. Hurricane LaneJUST WATCHED Dangerous Category 5 storm heads toward Hawaii Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dangerous Category 5 storm heads toward Hawaii 01:32TODAY'S QUOTE"I have never had any sexual relationship with Bennett."Actress and #MeToo leader Asia Argento, denying reports that she sexually assaulted musician Jimmy Bennett when he was 17JUST WATCHED Asia Argento reportedly paid assault accuser Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Asia Argento reportedly paid assault accuser 02:30BREAKFAST BROWSESurvival storyTheir mother died when their car crashed, but a 3-year-old and his 1-year-old brother somehow managed to survive on their own for days after the wreck.A clean startSome of his students were bullied because their clothes were dirty. So, this New Jersey principal got a free laundromat installed at his high school.JUST WATCHED High school adds a free laudromat for students bullied over wearing dirty clothes. Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH High school adds a free laudromat for students bullied over wearing dirty clothes. 01:52Beyond the callThe Argentine police officer heard a crying baby while patrolling a hospital. When she realized the child was hungry, she breastfed the infant herselfSharing the loveThink you need millions to start collecting Andy Warhol's work? Nah, all it takes is $20Break outThe animals on the front of the Barnum's animal crackers box are now out of their cages -- after PETA complained.TODAY'S NUMBER177The number of migrants on an Italian Coast Guard ship that Italy won't let disembark until it gets assurances they'll be relocated elsewhere in EuropeJUST WATCHED Hundreds of migrants left trapped at sea in June Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hundreds of migrants left trapped at sea in June 02:42AND FINALLYSo long, summer