(CNN) Expecting another scorcher today? It probably won't be as hot as Death Valley, home of the new (tentative) world's record for hottest month anywhere . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia election meddlingThe White House yesterday trotted out some big guns -- Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, national security adviser John Bolton, FBI Director Chris Wray -- to relay a powerful message : The Russians are still interfering in the US election system and want to mess with the midterm elections, but we're going to stop them.But that message didn't seem to make it to President Trump's rally last night in Pennsylvania, where Trump said not a word about Russia's attacks on the US democratic process. The only times he used the word Russia was with the word "hoax," a reference to special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation. This disconnect between a President and his national security team was particularly stunning, and CNN's Anderson Cooper called it a tale of two White Houses2. Death penaltyPope Francis changed the Catholic Church's stance on the death penalty , saying it's never admissible and the church will work to end it around the world. The church now says capital punishment "is an attack on the inviolability and dignity of the person." Historically, the church held that the death penalty protected society. But that view has been evolving since Pope John Paul II's time. Now, a Vatican spokesman tells CNN, leaders can protect society "in other ways." CNN Religion Editor Daniel Burke notes the new policy puts US politicians who support capital punishment in an awkward spotJUST WATCHED Pope declares death penalty inadmissible Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pope declares death penalty inadmissible 00:203. Emissions standardsThe Trump administration wants to lower emissions standards for cars , but California isn't having it. The administration plans to revoke an Obama-era environmental regulation that forces automakers to make cars much more fuel efficient by 2025 -- and to withdraw California's Clean Air Act preemption waiver, which allows the Golden State to set its own emissions standards (because it has its own distinct air quality issues). This is significant because about a dozen other states follow California's standards, which means about a third of all passenger vehicles fall under these rules.California Governor Jerry Brown, a Democrat, called the proposal "reckless" and promised a fight. The attorneys general of 20 states, including California, say they'll sue to stop the proposed changes. They say the plan would force motorists to pay more for gas and cause more air pollution.JUST WATCHED Trump pushing to undermine Obama rules on fuel efficient cars Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump pushing to undermine Obama rules on fuel efficient cars 02:284. Zimbabwe electionA winner has been declared in the closely-watched presidential election in Zimbabwe, but the losing side's not giving up its fight. The country's election commission said President Emmerson Mnangagwa beat challenger Nelson Chamisa, 50.8% to 44%, in the first election held there since former leader Robert Mugabe was driven from office last year. But Chamisa's supporters say the vote was rigged, so they're refusing to accept the results. And that anger morphed into violence, with six people dead in clashes with security forces.JUST WATCHED Police: People killed in Zimbabwe protests Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police: People killed in Zimbabwe protests 01:535. Florida beachesFlorida's beautiful southwest beaches have a shocking feature right now: thousands of dead marine animals . About 100 miles of coastline are clogged with the carcasses of dead fish, sea turtles, sea birds, manatees and even a shark. It's so bad, the governor has put out an emergency order . The animals were killed by what's called red tide, a toxic algae bloom that strikes every year. But officials say it's been about a decade since a red tide lasted this long or was this destructive. And no one knows how long it will last.JUST WATCHED Florida grapples with manatee deaths (2013) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Florida grapples with manatee deaths (2013) 01:37BREAKFAST BROWSESocial media minutes (or hours ... or days)Enough time to run a mile? Cook dinner? Go on vacation? Facebook and Instagram now reveal how much time you really spend in their apps.Prehistoric cemeteryStonehenge isn't just a mysterious ancient monument. It's also a graveyard. And now we know more about who's buried thereJUST WATCHED Discovery of 'superhenge' deepens Stonehenge mystery Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Discovery of 'superhenge' deepens Stonehenge mystery 01:31'All I did was be black'Add eating to the list of ordinary things that have gotten people of color reported to authorities. A Smith College student is now getting an apologyBold banditsStolen royal jewels. Thieves escaping by speedboat. No, it's not the plot of the next James Bond movie; it's just what happened this week in Sweden.JUST WATCHED Thieves steal Swedish royal crown jewels Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Thieves steal Swedish royal crown jewels 01:13I'll be backLinda Hamilton's coming back as Sarah Connor in another "Terminator" sequel, and the internet squealed in delight.HAPPENING LATERJobs reportSome things to watch for when the July jobs report comes out later this morning: Will unemployment dip below 4%? Will the economy add more than 200,000 jobs again? And will there be any sign of drag from the Trump tariffs?JUST WATCHED Trump and jobs: US unemployment rate matches 50-year low Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump and jobs: US unemployment rate matches 50-year low 03:34TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeA German cruise line is catching heat after an employee shot and killed what animal?A. dolphinB. horseC. whaleD. polar bearPlay " Total Recall: The CNN news quiz " to see if you're right. And don't forget, you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."IT'S THE WEEKEND, BABYJUST WATCHED Ewan McGregor co-stars with Winnie-the-Pooh Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ewan McGregor co-stars with Winnie-the-Pooh 01:46AND FINALLYDo a little dance