(CNN) Can't step away from the chocolate chip cookies? It might not be (all) your fault . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White HouseJeff Sessions is safe -- until November. At least that's what President Trump told Bloomberg News, saying no action would be taken on the beleaguered attorney general until after the midterm elections . Trump is still ticked off that Sessions recused himself from the Russia investigation. He's been talking about getting rid of his AG for months and may be emboldened by GOP senators who seem to be more open to the idea -- as long as it happens after the upcoming elections. Meanwhile, at a rally last night in Indiana, the President went after the Justice Department and FBI leaders (again), saying he would "get involved" in DOJ affairs if "it doesn't straighten out properly." He also implied, to chants of "lock her up," that Hillary Clinton could face criminal charges.2. New Mexico bus-truck crashAt least seven people were killed yesterday when a tractor-trailer blew a tire, crossed into oncoming traffic and smashed head-on into a Greyhound bus . The horrific wreck occurred on Interstate 40 in northwestern New Mexico. After the crash, some of the 49 bus passengers tried to climb out windows as bystanders walked through debris carrying ladders. The truck driver had non-life-threatening injuries. The death toll is expected to rise, a police spokesman said.3. NBC NewsDid NBC try to kill one of the stories that led to Harvey Weinstein's downfall? An ex-NBC News producer makes that explosive claim in a New York Times interview. Rich McHugh, who worked for months on journalist Ronan Farrow's expose on the disgraced Hollywood mogul, said a call from "the highest levels of NBC" came that stopped work on the story. NBC News denies this, saying Farrow's story simply wasn't ready at the time. Farrow eventually took his work to The New Yorker, which last October published a more detailed version than NBC News says the journalist had wanted to air on its network.JUST WATCHED Ronan Farrow's new piece on CBS and harassment Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ronan Farrow's new piece on CBS and harassment 02:384. Australia and the Catholic ChurchThe Catholic Church in Australia, like in other countries, has been rocked by child sex abuse scandals. A government inquiry into abuse in Australia's religious institutions led to a list of almost 200 recommendations , including about 20 targeting the Catholic Church. Its leaders said they'll follow "98%" of the recommendations -- but won't compel priests to report child abuse revealed in confessions . That decision is a big stumbling block for the church as it tries to regain the public's trust. Catholic leaders also balked at the suggestion they end mandatory celibacy for priests.JUST WATCHED Church: Priests won't report abuse confessions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Church: Priests won't report abuse confessions 02:345. Child car seatsNew rule: Kids should stay in rear-facing car seats until they hit the height or weight limit for the seat . This new guidance, part of updated recommendations from the American Academy of Pediatrics, changes what we've all been previously told about young children and car seats: that kids should ride in rear-facing seats until at least age 2. That's being tweaked because car seat manufacturers are making seats that let kids stay rear-facing until they reach 40 pounds. Using the right car seat reduces the risk of death or injury by more than 70%. All kids younger than 13 years should be in a vehicle's back seat.Photos: 7 medical advancements that saved children's lives Familiar with the Back to Sleep campaign to eliminate sudden infant death syndrome or SIDS, one of the leading causes of infant death? Called Safe to Sleep today, it urges parents to put babies to sleep on their backs, never on the stomach, until age 1. Since the start of the campaign in 1994, SIDS rates have dropped by half, which is why it was chosen by the American Academy of Pediatrics as one of the most important achievements in children's health in the past 40 years. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: 7 medical advancements that saved children's lives Routine vaccinations are life-saving for many children. Just look at polio, which once killed or disabled thousands, and which has now been eradicated in the United States due to vaccination efforts. Before vaccines were developed, for example, rotavirus killed about 450,000 children worldwide each year. In the United States, Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) took the lives of 1,200 annually. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: 7 medical advancements that saved children's lives The most common childhood cancer in the United States today is acute lymphocytic leukemia, striking nearly 3,000 children a year. In 1975, it was a death sentence, but after years of research new medication combos, today 90% of newly diagnosed children are expected to live five years or more. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: 7 medical advancements that saved children's lives The main cause of death for newborns around the world, says the American Academy of Pediatrics, is being born premature. About 450,000 babies a year, or one in nine, are born prematurely in the US alone. Adding a surfactant, or lubricant, to the lungs of a newborn helps them breathe. After it was implemented in 1985, preemie deaths from respiratory distress syndrome dropped by 41% over the next six years. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: 7 medical advancements that saved children's lives In pregnancy, HIV can be transmitted from mother to baby by blood during pregnancy, via vaginal secretions during childbirth, and during breastfeeding after birth. The rate of transmission used to be as high as 40%, but after research discovered an anti-retroviral medication called Zidovudine, the rate decreased by two-thirds. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: 7 medical advancements that saved children's lives In sickle cell anemia, an inherited disorder, red blood cells become hard, sticky and form a C-shaped "sickle." Those sickle cells die early, which causes a constant shortage of red blood cells, extreme pain, infection and often, strokes. In 1975, a child with sickle cell disease would likely die by age 14, but medical advances have increased the current life expectancy to age 40. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: 7 medical advancements that saved children's lives One in three children who die in auto accidents aren't protected by seat belts or car seats, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics. Since the implementation of laws and national awareness campaigns such as Click It or Ticket, deaths have plummeted. In children younger than a year, for example, the proper use of car seats has reduced deaths by 71%. Hide Caption 7 of 7BREAKFAST BROWSENot so tastyLove to eat ice cream made with liquid nitrogen ? Well stop, says the FDA, which warns foods made with it can cause internal organ damage.JUST WATCHED New liquid nitrogen cereal sparks controversy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New liquid nitrogen cereal sparks controversy 01:30Gone but not forgottenThe lobsters died are a crash on a Maine roadway. PETA wanted to memorialize them -- with a 5-foot-tall tombstone.Road blocksThis Bugatti Chiron is made out of 1 million Legos -- and you can drive it!Executive drivePresident Obama may not be in the White House anymore, but you'll soon be able to ride down Obama Boulevard in LAHAPPENING LATERA day of remembranceSingers and politicians will be among the mourners when Aretha Franklin's funeral starts this morning at 10 ET in Detroit. Of course, you can watch it on CNN. We'll also have coverage of memorials in Washington for John McCain. His body will lie in state at the US Capitol, with a ceremony this morning in the Rotunda at 11 ET.JUST WATCHED Biden calls McCain a brother: We had 'a lot of family fights' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Biden calls McCain a brother: We had 'a lot of family fights' 05:49TODAY'S NUMBERS497The number of children separated from their parents at the US-Mexico border that are still in government custody , according to a new court filingJUST WATCHED Some kids separated at border may never see parents again Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Some kids separated at border may never see parents again 03:33251,000JUST WATCHED By the numbers: Gun deaths in America Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH By the numbers: Gun deaths in America 00:47TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeTo protect native wildlife, a village in New Zealand wants to ban what kind of animal?A. dogsB. birdsC. catsD. raccoonsPlay "Total Recall: The CNN news quiz" to see if you're right. And don't forget, you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."IT'S THE WEEKEND, BABYYeah, you'll be busy with barbecues and football this holiday weekend, but you might still have a chance to watch that guy from "The Office" take on the "Jack Ryan" character in a new Amazon series . Or head to the theater for the historical drama, "Operation Finale."AND FINALLYHorse meets horse