(CNN) "Peanuts" is going Canadian. Maybe our neighbors to the north can help Charlie Brown finally grab that football. Here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.(You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia sagaThe story behind why President Trump, in a stunning move, fired FBI Director James Comey keeps changing. First, the White House said the decision rested mostly with deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein , who didn't like how Comey handled the Hillary Clinton email investigation. Then officials said Trump had simply lost confidence in Comey . Now new reports suggest Trump wanted Comey gone because he wouldn't give the President an assurance of his personal loyalty and because the Russia probe, which Comey was spearheading, was ramping up. Trump is described as being "white hot" over the Russia investigation . Comey reportedly had asked for more resources for the investigation, something the Justice Department denies.JUST WATCHED Cuomo to Conway: What I want is the truth Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cuomo to Conway: What I want is the truth 02:422. CIA and North KoreaJUST WATCHED North Korea: CIA plotting to kill Kim Jong Un Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North Korea: CIA plotting to kill Kim Jong Un 02:243. Betsy DeVosEducation Secretary Betsy DeVos addressed the graduates at historically black Bethune-Cookman University and, well, it went as badly as we thought it would. As soon as she started to speak, students jumped up and booed her , with some even turning their backs on her. It got so bad that the school's president told the grads that if they kept it up, "your degrees will be mailed to you." Students had urged administrators to cancel DeVos' speech, primarily because of her comments -- which she later recanted -- that founders of historically black colleges and universities were "real pioneers" of school choice . Here's a little history lesson: black colleges were established as a reaction to racial discrimination, not an exercise in school choice.JUST WATCHED Boos drown out DeVos commencement speech Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boos drown out DeVos commencement speech 01:264. Obamacare5. Climate changeGlacier National Park in Montana might need to consider a name change one day. That's because the park's namesake glaciers are melting at an alarming rate. A new study says the 37 glaciers in the park have lost 85% of their size. And in a few decades, they'll be gone. "The trend right now is that they are inexorably going into their final demise," the study's lead scientist says. "There is no chance they will go into rebirth." The scientists blame climate change brought on by humans.JUST WATCHED Undeniable climate change facts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Undeniable climate change facts 02:24This just in ...Under heavy police presence, crews early this morning in New Orleans began to take down the statue of former Confederate President Jefferson DavisBreakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Who you gonna call?Fossils of a dinosaur that looks a lot like a "Ghostbusters" monster have been found. So, of course, they named it Zuul.Rich rideCome, take a trip on the cruise ship for the uber-wealthy that may even be too pricey for Oprah.Treasure troveSince "Hamilton" hit Broadway, anything connected to Alexander Hamilton is a license to print money. Now a collection of his letters is up for saleHere comes the judgeThe cases are real, but the judge is fake -- when comedian Amy Schumer sits in for Judge JudyToday's number ...$2.2 billionThat's how much Snap, the parent company of Snapchat , lost last quarter.And finally ...Evenly matched