(CNN) The aftermath of an unfathomable attack in Great Britain leads off the things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. Concert attack2. Russia investigationThe President may be out of town, but Washington is still tussling with the Russia investigation. And -- surprise, surprise -- there are new allegations. Sources tell CNN that President Trump asked Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats and National Security Agency Director Adm. Michael Rogers to publicly deny any evidence of collusion between Trump's 2016 campaign and the Russians . Yeah, they weren't real comfortable with that and refused to comply. The White House, through an unidentified spokesperson, wouldn't confirm or deny the story -- because it came from "illegal leaks" by anonymous sources.Meanwhile, Michael Flynn (can't have a Russia story without him) is pleading the Fifth rather than complying with a subpoena from the Senate intelligence committee. The committee, which wants documents from the former national security adviser, is thinking about holding Flynn in contempt of Congress.JUST WATCHED Source: Special counsel briefed on Comey memos Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Source: Special counsel briefed on Comey memos 01:483. President TrumpJUST WATCHED President Trump visits the Western Wall Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH President Trump visits the Western Wall 01:334. TexasThe Lone Star State is living up to its conservative reputation as state lawmakers passed a flurry of bills that hit on the hot-button issues of sexuality and religion. The state Senate over the weekend passed a House-approved bill that would let adoption agencies turn away willing parents on religious grounds. To become law, all it needs is Gov. Greg Abbott's signature.Meanwhile, the House OK'd Texas' version of a "bathroom bill." Unlike North Carolina's version , which led to protests and boycotts, it would require only public high school students to use restrooms that match the gender on their birth certificates. This bill, which still must pass the Senate, is a priority for Abbott.And that's not all. Lawmakers have also proposed a bill allowing "religious liberty" exemption for lawyers, pharmacists and nurses. One opponent of all of this called this weekend's legislative action "discrimination Sunday."JUST WATCHED Transgender boy wins girls' wrestling title Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Transgender boy wins girls' wrestling title 02:105. Alcohol and breast cancerA drink a day may increase your risk of breast cancer , a new study says. The report, from the World Cancer Research Fund and the American Institute for Cancer Research, says drinking an average of 10 grams of alcohol a day -- that's the equivalent of a glass of wine or a small can of beer -- can raise the risk of breast cancer by 5% in premenopausal women and by 9% in postmenopausal women.JUST WATCHED Foods to help fight breast cancer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Foods to help fight breast cancer 02:08BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Hip hop HarvardA written thesis is so boring, so this Ivy League student dropped the beat on his dissertation by submitting a rap albumKelly's curseIf the Nashville Predators don't win the Stanley Cup, blame Kelly Clarkson. The team's streak of home playoff wins ended after she sang the national anthem.Thank youHe's suffered the worst loss imaginable, but the father of the victim killed in last week's Times Square rampage found the time (and strength) to thank those who set up a memorial for his daughter.Alternate political realityAmerica's favorite fake president had a photo shoot with a real ex-White House photog for a "House of Cards" publicity stunt.Good getSomebody bought a diamond ring at an outdoor market in London for $13. Turns out it's worth $456,000 . Now that's what we call winning!QUOTE OF THE DAY"Not one guy with a bad placard"Wilbur Ross, Commerce Secretary praising the absence of protesters during President Trump's trip to Saudi Arabia. Um, Mr. Secretary, protests aren't allowed in the kingdom.JUST WATCHED Wilbur Ross caught napping during Trump speech Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Wilbur Ross caught napping during Trump speech 01:26NUMBER OF THE DAY$4.1 trillionThe bottom line of President Trump's budget , which lands on lawmakers' desks today and includes drastic cuts to many safety net and other domestic programsJUST WATCHED Medicaid could lose $800 billion under Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Medicaid could lose $800 billion under Trump 01:08AND FINALLY ...Can't trust it