(CNN) Here's a travel option for you. Once-a-week passenger ferry service now links Russia and North Korea. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. White HouseWell, now it's serious. The Justice Department appointed ex-FBI Director Robert Mueller as special counsel to run the feds' investigation into Russia's interference into last year's election -- and that includes possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russians.The markets don't like all this drama. The Dow had its worst day since September , plummeting 373 points.JUST WATCHED Trump: No politician has been treated worse Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: No politician has been treated worse 00:482. Tulsa police shootingJUST WATCHED Police rep: Verdict no cause for celebration Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police rep: Verdict no cause for celebration 01:123. Chelsea ManningJUST WATCHED Who is Chelsea Manning? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Chelsea Manning? 01:314. ICE deathsFor the second time in a week , a man in Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody has died. A 58-year-old Indian national died in an Atlanta hospital after being taken there after complaining about shortness of breath. On Monday, a 27-year-old apparently hanged himself while in solitary confinement in Georgia. Eight people have died in ICE custody since October. Immigrant rights activists are crying foul, but ICE says it's "committed" to keeping those in its custody safe and healthy. President Trump has called for increasing detention as part of his crackdown on illegal immigration.5. BrazilBrazil seems to go from one presidential scandal to another. President Michel Temer is accused of bribery by one of Brazil's biggest newspapers. O Globo reports that Temer paid hush money to an imprisoned former Senate colleague to keep quiet about a corruption investigation. Temer says it's not true, but the newspaper says a meat producer has a recording of the President giving the OK for a bribe to the Senate colleague to "keep quiet." Temer rose to the presidency last year after former President Dilma Rousseff was impeached , caught up in the same corruption probe.JUST WATCHED Brazil struggling with political and economic crises Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Brazil struggling with political and economic crises 03:16THIS JUST IN ...Chris Cornell, lead singer of Soundgarden, died last night . Cornell, 52, and the band were in Detroit for a show as part of a US tour.BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.See you in courtHis date texted during a movie. Now he's suing her -- for principle's sake.Say it ain't soA Girl Scout leader in Kentucky ends up in jail, accused of making off with 6,000 boxes -- of Girl Scout cookies.GulpBoric acid + methanol + fire = BOOMHere's one science experiment you don't want to replicate.Romper roomGrown men are wearing onesies -- out in public -- and the internet may never get over it.My kingdom for a planeThe King of the Netherlands has been living a double life ! Calm down; it's not that sexy. He's just secretly been flying passenger jets for more than 20 years.TODAY'S NUMBER44Number of people nabbed in widespread raids in Los Angeles that targeted the infamous MS-13 gang.JUST WATCHED Raids lead to MS-13 gang arrests Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Raids lead to MS-13 gang arrests 02:37AND THE WINNER IS ...Say congrats to D. Randal Dotson Sr. of Memphis, Tennessee. He was the first to correctly answer the trivia question from yesterday's newsletter: Which of the Seven Dwarfs' names comes last alphabetically? It's Sneezy.AND FINALLY ...What'd you say?