(CNN) Happy Monday morning. Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. Donald TrumpHow will President Trump spend his next 100 days? Probably a lot like how he spent his first - searching for legislative wins . Of course, Trump will disagree with that assessment. He marked his 100th day in office over the weekend with a huge rally in Pennsylvania , where he bragged to his most hardcore supporters about racking up great achievements so farThe question of how to deal with North Korea (which had another failed missile test ) has been a mainstay of Trump's term so far, but he raised eyebrows when, in an interview, he called North Korean leader Kim Jong Un a " pretty smart cookie " and left the door open for military action against the regime. (It was left to Sen. John McCain to reassure allies: "Sometimes it's important to watch what the President does rather than what he says ."People are also scratching their heads over Trump's decision to invite Rodrigo Duterte, the Philippines' uber-controversial President , to the White House. Duterte is waging a violent (and some say illegal) war on drugs in his country. He has said he's killed people and has just an awful human rights record . But Trump thinks he can be of help in dealing with North Korea.2. WeatherIt was a deadly weekend down South. At least 13 people were killed as storms ripped through Texas, Missouri, Arkansas, Tennessee and Mississippi. Damage was widespread in northeast Texas, where at least three tornadoes hit. And it's not over. A severe weather warning is in effect today. About 22 million people on the East Coast, from North Carolina to New York, are at risk of twisters, high winds and hail.JUST WATCHED See giant twister swirl through Texas Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See giant twister swirl through Texas 00:493. TurkeyFriends don't let friends fight, so the US is taking some steps to keep a pair of its Mideast allies from duking it out. US forces are now patrolling part of the Turkey-Syria border . This comes after Turkey killed dozens of Kurdish fighters in airstrikes last week. Turkey says it wasn't intentional. The Kurdish fighters -- including some from the People's Protection Units (YPG) -- have been helping the US fight ISIS. But Turkey considers the YPG to be a terrorist group in itself. So the US hopes the patrols -- complete with armored vehicles flying American flags --- will help keep the peace between its two closest allies in the volatile region. If you need a refresher, here's a quick look at the alphabet soup free-for-all in Syria4. PoliticsRelax, America. There probably won't be yet another government shutdown crisis this week. Congress wants to kick that can down to the fall . Congressional negotiators reached a deal that, if approved, will keep the government funded through September. The deal will provide billions in new spending to the Pentagon and $1.5 billion for border security (think hi-tech stuff and fixing existing infrastructure) but nothing for new border wall construction. The House and Senate are expected to take up the spending bill before week's end. Here's a quick rundown of what's in this latest billJUST WATCHED Spending deal reached, will not pay for wall Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Spending deal reached, will not pay for wall 00:56A rumored revival of the GOP health care bill may be around the corner too, but President Trump may have muddied the waters a bit when he said this weekend the Republican plan "guarantees" coverage for people with pre-existing conditions. There's debate if the GOP plan really does that at all.JUST WATCHED Trump: GOP plan covers pre-existing conditions Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: GOP plan covers pre-existing conditions 02:325. Milwaukee jail deathAn inquest is being held in the death last year of an inmate in the Milwaukee County Jail. Prosecutors suspect he died after jailers denied him water for a week . The inmate's death was ruled a homicide by a medical examiner. And there have been three other deaths, including a newborn baby, at the jail, so folks are anxious to see just what's going on up there. Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke runs the jail. He's a tough-talking supporter of President Trump. Protesters will target him today . They want him to quit over the jail deaths, but they're also upset about his intention to use deputies and correction officers to help enforce federal immigration laws.JUST WATCHED Clarke: Pitchfork and torches time (2016) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Clarke: Pitchfork and torches time (2016) 01:24BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Don't look at meThe Fyre Festival turned into an embarrassing hot mess and (past his prime) rapper Ja Rule founded it, but he'll tell anyone who'll listen, it wasn't his fault.Nap timeNow this is a gym class we can all get behind: a 60-minute sleep class for tired parents.JUST WATCHED A sleep class for tired parents Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A sleep class for tired parents 00:51May you know allIt's May 1, May Day, but how did it come about? AJ Willingham, our resident explainer of everything, fills you in'How do you like me now?'JUST WATCHED Will Ferrell returns as George W. Bush Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Will Ferrell returns as George W. Bush 01:35Immigration battleA North Carolina city council member wanted to introduce a resolution, welcoming immigrants, as a nice gesture. Then all hell broke looseQUOTE OF THE DAY"The news coming out of the White House is so stressful, I've been watching 'House of Cards' just to relax."Comedian Hasan Minhaj roasting the Trump administration during the White House Correspondents' Association dinner.JUST WATCHED Minhaj's full speech at Correspondents' Dinner Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Minhaj's full speech at Correspondents' Dinner 25:25AND FINALLY ...Room's not big enough for the both of us