(CNN) You've made it to the end of another intense week. Well, almost. Enjoy your Memorial Day. We'll be back Tuesday morning. Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .1. Russia probeWhat you need to know about Jared KushnerWhat you need to know about Jared Kushner 01:24What you need to know about Jared Kushner2. Montana election3. Travel banJUST WATCHED Phil Mudd: Trump travel ban 'ass-backwards' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Phil Mudd: Trump travel ban 'ass-backwards' 01:124. Global summitsThe G-7 summit is underway today in Italy. This is where seven of the most powerful countries, including the US , meet to discuss the pressing problems of the world. There's certainly no shortage, and they'll cover things like ISIS, Russia (not attending), climate change and Syria. This will be the first summit for President Trump and new French President Emmanuel MacronJUST WATCHED Did Trump push prime minister aside? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Did Trump push prime minister aside? 00:535. Manchester attackAnd if you need a little bit of hope after this especially dark week, here it is: English soccer giants Manchester United and Manchester City have come together to donate £1 million ($1.3 million) to the emergency fund set up for Manchester attack victims. Now that's good sportsmanship.JUST WATCHED Queen Elizabeth II visits attack victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Queen Elizabeth II visits attack victims 00:52TODAY'S NUMBER6 millionThe number of people President Trump wants off welfare and in full-time jobs , according to his budget planJUST WATCHED Mulvaney: Trump wants to protect entitlements Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mulvaney: Trump wants to protect entitlements 01:32Breakfast BrowsePeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Woman tells car thief, "I'm not dealing with this sort of crap today!"Melania Trump is the first Catholic FLOTUS since Jackie KennedyHere are all the details about Amazon's first real-life bookstoreWhoa, Jupiter, what was that about?TODAY'S QUOTE"Go back to Mexico!"What a customer said to another shopper to get banned from Walmart -- one of several recent cases of racist vitriol caught on videoAnd finally ...Where's Dad?!?!!