(CNN) It's Friday and it's Cinco de Mayo! Please celebrate safely on both fronts. Here are the 5 things you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door .(You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Health careThe Republicans' new health care bill went from being on life support just days ago to dancing down the halls after 217 GOP voters pushed the bill through the House . Now it's on to the Senate, where more challenges and drama most certainly await.It's a big win for Trump and the Republicans who supported the bill. Democrats were livid and taunted "yea" voters , whom they now see as sitting ducks in the 2018 mid-term elections.2. Religious freedomTrump signed an executive order on religious liberty that, in theory, allows churches and other religious organizations to become more politically active . The idea is, the IRS cannot punish such organizations for political actions that stop short of endorsing a candidate. However, it's something many religious leaders and groups already do without fear of punishment.3. French electionJUST WATCHED French voters: This election is a 'second revolution' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH French voters: This election is a 'second revolution' 01:444. Hillary ClintonClinton just re-entered the fray after her 2016 election loss , but she told CNN's Christiane Amanpour that she is "back to being an activist citizen and part of the resistance."5. SyriaJUST WATCHED This child is the cost of war in Syria Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This child is the cost of war in Syria 00:51BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.University awards posthumous aeronautics degree to Trayvon MartinCan baseball stadiums really ban you for life?Officer offers kindness after impoverished girl steals $2 shoesKFC publishes romance novel featuring Colonel SandersGin recalled for having too much alcoholWhat's for lunchThe April jobs report is set to drop this morningJUST WATCHED Trump's views on the jobs report come full circle Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump's views on the jobs report come full circle 01:15The Kentucky Derby is tomorrowAND FINALLY ...7-year-old's classmates just love her new prosthetic leg