Photos: Photos: Mark Shand The life of Mark Shand – Mark Shand, founder of the Elephant Family charity, " died in a hospital as a result of a serious head injury which he sustained during a fall" on Monday, April 21, Britain's Clarence House said in a statement. According to the Elephant Family website, in 1988, Shand arrived in India and rescued a female elephant named Tara, (shown). Tara became his traveling companion and inspiration on a 1,000-mile adventure that led to the foundation of the charity. Hide Caption 1 of 9Photos: Photos: Mark Shand The life of Mark Shand – Charles, Prince of Wales, right, and his brother-in-law Shand, visit the elephant corridor at Vazhachal Forest Range in India on November 12. Hide Caption 2 of 9Photos: Photos: Mark Shand The life of Mark Shand – Actress Goldie Hawn and Shand attend the Hawn Foundation UK launch at Annabel's in London on March 7, 2012. Hide Caption 3 of 9Photos: Photos: Mark Shand The life of Mark Shand – The Dalai Lama is presented with the Dayawati Modi Award for 2011 by Shand, center, in New Delhi on December 2, 2011. SK Modi, left, president of the Dayawati Modi Foundation, looks on. Hide Caption 4 of 9Photos: Photos: Mark Shand The life of Mark Shand – Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, and her brother, Mark Shand, check out an elephant sculpture designed in the style of a London taxi at the Elephant Parade exhibition at Chelsea Hospital Gardens in London on June 24, 2010. Hide Caption 5 of 9Photos: Photos: Mark Shand The life of Mark Shand – Shand helped organize 2009's Elephant Parade in Amsterdam, an open-air art exhibition consisting of 100 painted elephants that aimed to raise awareness of the plight of the Asian elephant. Hide Caption 6 of 9Photos: Photos: Mark Shand The life of Mark Shand – Shand with nephew Tom Parker Bowles, left, daughter Ayesha Shand and an unidentified guest at the Faberge Big Egg Hunt Grand Auction in London on March 20, 2012. Hide Caption 7 of 9Photos: Photos: Mark Shand The life of Mark Shand – Shand with his daughter, Ayesha, and wife, Clio, during the Cartier Travel With Style Concours at the Royal Western India Turf Club in Mumbai on November 2, 2008. Hide Caption 8 of 9