Story highlights A year after the Boston Marathon bombing, some victims continue to struggleThe One Fund Boston remains active and is helping those affectedSeveral other victims still need support or are raising funds for other organizationsA year after a bomb exploded during one of Boston's most-celebrated events, the marathon will continue, but many of those whose lives were shattered by this act of violence are still struggling to put the pieces back together. Impact Your World has identified some of the victims, as well as larger funds, who continue to need your support.The One Fund Boston, founded by Gov. Deval Patrick and Mayor Thomas Menino after the bombings to help those affected, is still active. A coast-to-coast relay raised over $400,000 for the charity, which you can donate to hereA group of 72 people called Team MR8 is running this year's marathon in honor of Martin Richard, a child killed in the blast. A congresswoman from Arizona and the head of the Indianapolis marathon are among the runners. According to the team, they will be raising money for the Martin W. Richard Charitable Foundation, which will be invested in education, athletics and community to support Martin's message: "No more hurting people. Peace."A fund is still active for Heather Abbott, who lost her left foot in the explosion. Money raised will go toward Heather's continuing recovery and associated financial needs. You can donate hereJeff Bauman, who lost both legs, is credited with giving police valuable information in the days after the incident despite his horrific injuries. His website directs donations to some of the organizations that helped Bauman with his own recovery.Sabrina Dello Russo, who suffered a traumatic brain injury and hearing loss, is running this year's marathon for her friend Roseann Sdoia, who lost her leg in the blast. The money raised by the Running for Ro team will go toward Roseann's prosthetic. Sdoia also has another recovery fund that is still active and accepting donations. You can find it here