(CNN) It's International Women's Day! Singer Angelique Kidjo helps us celebrate by telling us how female solidarity will change the face of Africa . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. White HousePresident Trump will sign an order today to finalize his promised steel and aluminum tariffs -- or maybe not. There's confusion at the White House (shocker, we know). There was supposed to be a signing ceremony this afternoon, but a White House aide said it was canceled because the policy hadn't been finalized yet. There's also word that whenever this thing gets done, it'll have an exemption for Mexico and Canada, probably to be used as a carrot in NAFTA talks.Meanwhile, the storm known as Stormy Daniels continues to batter the White House . The adult film star's attorney says Trump's personal lawyer had a restraining order issued against her and is still pressuring her to keep quiet about her alleged affair with the President, which he denies.2. Russia investigationSpecial counsel Robert Mueller's investigators are aware of two occasions on which President Trump asked witnesses about conversations they had with investigators , The New York Times reported, citing three people familiar with the encounters. Trump reportedly asked his former chief of staff, Reince Priebus, if special counsel investigators had been "nice" during his interview. Trump also reportedly told an aide that White House counsel Donald McGahn should put out a statement denying a previous Times report in which the paper said McGahn told investigators that Trump asked him to fire Mueller.JUST WATCHED Who is the shadowy figure cooperating with Mueller? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is the shadowy figure cooperating with Mueller? 00:593. Florida school shootingFlorida lawmakers passed a bill authorizing new restrictions on gun sales and letting some teachers and staff carry guns in schools. It now goes to GOP Gov. Rick Scott. For some shooting survivors who wanted an assault weapons ban, the measure didn't go far enough; for some Republican lawmakers who opposed stricter measures on gun ownership, it went too far. Others fear the measure could have deadly unintended consequences for students of color.JUST WATCHED Dwyane Wade surprises Parkland students Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dwyane Wade surprises Parkland students 00:424. UK and RussiaEx-Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his adult daughter were poisoned by a nerve agent , police in the UK say, and they're pointing the finger at Russia. UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has threatened to retaliate over the incident, which also calls into question the UK's ability to protect its residents. This all could sink relations between the West and Russia even lower. Skripal and his daughter remain critically ill in a hospital.JUST WATCHED Police: Russian spy was deliberately poisoned Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police: Russian spy was deliberately poisoned 02:285. Aung San Suu KyiOnce upon a time, Aung San Suu Kyi was one of the most respected people on the planet. Those days are over. Suu Kyi, the de facto leader of Myanmar, has been lambasted for her perceived lack of action in the crisis involving the Rohingya. The US Holocaust Memorial Museum just stripped her of a 2012 human rights award -- named for the late Holocaust survivor and activist Elie Wiesel. More than 688,000 Rohingya refugees have fled Myanmar since August after repeated attacks by the country's military, which claims it's fighting terrorists.JUST WATCHED Three Nobel Peace Laureates accuse Myanmar of genocide Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Three Nobel Peace Laureates accuse Myanmar of genocide 04:08BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Alexa, please stop creeping me outAmazon's voice assistant is laughing randomly and freaking everybody out . We keep telling you these robots aren't playing around.JUST WATCHED Amazon's Alexa is judging your fashion sense Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Amazon's Alexa is judging your fashion sense 01:09Flipping and freshRest in printHere's another nail in print media's coffin. Legendary UK music magazine NME is ending its print edition after six decades. It'll still live online, though.Space secretsBright and dark bands of gas. Winds whipping at massive speeds in opposite directions. Those are just some mysteries NASA's Juno spacecraft has picked up about Jupiter.TODAY'S NUMBERS66%The proportion of millennials who haven't saved anything for retirementJUST WATCHED Characteristics of a 401(k) millionaire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Characteristics of a 401(k) millionaire 01:09$1.1 billionThe NCAA's revenue in 2017. It was the first time the collegiate athletic group broke 10 figures.AND FINALLYSmile and wave