(CNN) Considering a big move? Finland is the happiest country in the world . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)School walkoutsSo, what's next after thousands of students across the country walked out of class to protest gun violence? Well, March 24 is the March for Our Lives event in Washington, where students plan to take their concerns directly to lawmakers (though many DC-area students met with Democratic members of Congress during yesterday's walkout). And next month, more protests are planned on the anniversary of the Columbine High School massacre.Student says he walked out for those who can'tStudent says he walked out for those who can't 01:24Student says he walked out for those who can'tPresident TrumpPresident Trump reportedly made a couple of eye-popping statements during his speech at a fundraiser last night in St. Louis. The President said he made up facts during a meeting with Justin Trudeau, according to audio obtained by The Washington Post. Trump said he told the Canadian Prime Minister that the US runs a trade deficit with Canada, even though he had no idea if that was true. Trump also seemed to say the US might pull US troops out of South Korea if he can't get trade concessions from the US ally.JUST WATCHED WaPo: Trump admits he gave Trudeau false info Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH WaPo: Trump admits he gave Trudeau false info 00:57UK and RussiaThe UK is kicking out 23 Russian diplomats after the Brits said Russia was responsible for the poisoning of an ex-Russian double agent and his daughter. The diplomats have one week to leave, and UK Prime Minister Theresa May said this is just the start of the retaliation against Russia. It's the single biggest expulsion of Russian diplomats in three decades and will undoubtedly drag UK-Russia relations even lower. Russia called the move a "hostile action" and "an unprecedented gross provocation."JUST WATCHED What is Novichok and how does it kill? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is Novichok and how does it kill? 01:34NigerToys 'R' UsJUST WATCHED You won't be hearing this iconic jingle anymore Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH You won't be hearing this iconic jingle anymore 01:07BREAKFAST BROWSEDog daysJUST WATCHED Dog bound for Kansas ends up in Japan Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dog bound for Kansas ends up in Japan 01:03Royal riotThe queen was paid less than her co-star on "The Crown," and now the citizens of Netflix are storming the castle with pitchforks.JUST WATCHED 'The Crown's' queen was paid less than prince Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'The Crown's' queen was paid less than prince 01:01Barack's bracketStill filling out that NCAA tournament bracket? Better get to it. And if you need help, take a peek at Barack Obama's bracketology.Deep space DNAAstronaut Scott Kelly and his brother Mark are still twins, even though some of Scott's genes didn't return to normal after his year in space.JUST WATCHED Space travel altered Kelly's chromosomes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Space travel altered Kelly's chromosomes 00:57'Frozen' feverYeah, you can get mad at Elsa for bringing the winter weather, but at least she (or a guy dressed as her, at least) tries to help those stuck in her icy grasp.NUMBERS OF THE DAY7JUST WATCHED Teens' graffiti ignited 7 years of civil war Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Teens' graffiti ignited 7 years of civil war 02:301.4 millionThe number of cars Ford is recalling because the steering wheel can come loose or fall off.AND FINALLY...Bust a moveIt's not Friday yet, but this cute baby boy starts the weekend dance party early with his smooth moves to MGMT's "She Works Out Too Much."