(CNN) There's a new luxury island retreat opening this summer in Finland. But sorry fellas: it's for the ladies only .Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.(You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)Academy AwardsThere were no envelope screw-ups this time. There were historic wins and political jokes and memorable speeches and a jet ski prize , but these 90th Academy Awards will be best remembered for how the #MeToo and #TimesUp movements took center stage. That was best illustrated when three of Harvey Weinstein's most prominent accusers -- Ashley Judd , Salma Hayek and Annabella Sciorra -- stood together and said the change that's sweeping through Hollywood needs to pass through the rest of society as well.What else will we remember these awards for?Frances McDormand's -- Best actress winner powerful speech , where she asked all women nominees to stand and introduced the world to the phrase "inclusion rider."Jordan Peele's historic win for --historic win for best original screenplay for "Get Out" -- the first for an African American.Lupita Nyong'o's and Kumail Nanjiani's shout out to Dreamers. --andJUST WATCHED Judd: We're going to burn down the patriarchy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Judd: We're going to burn down the patriarchy 01:28North and South KoreaNorth Korean leader Kim Jong Un met with a high-ranking a South Korean delegation today in Pyongyang. It's believed to be the first face-to-face meeting he's had with South Korean officials since he rose to power. Could that eventually lead to the North having talks with the US? The South Korean national security chief leading the delegation said he hopes so. The South is trying to build on the diplomatic momentum achieved after the North took part in the Winter Olympics last month in Pyeongchang. The two nations are now negotiating the North's participation in the Paralympic Winter Games this month.JUST WATCHED Kim Jong Un to meet S. Korean officials Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kim Jong Un to meet S. Korean officials 01:10WeatherResidents in the Northeast -- battered all weekend by the bomb cyclone -- will have to deal with high tides today and then get ready for another nor'easter later this week. This weekend's storm, which has moved offshore, killed at least six people and left more than a quarter million customers without power. It dropped snow from Ohio to New England, flooded homes and ripped down trees and power poles with sometimes hurricane-force winds. The next nor'easter could hit by Wednesday.JUST WATCHED Plane aborts landing amid ferocious winds Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Plane aborts landing amid ferocious winds 00:58Italian electionsPopulism seems to be the big winner in the Italian elections. Voters put their support behind anti-immigrant and anti-establishment parties , like Five Star Movement and League. But none of these parties got enough votes to rule alone, meaning the country's headed to a period of political gridlock as negotiations take place to form a government. All this is bad news for the EU too, because the parties that did well in the election aren't fans of it. Final elections results are expected to be released today.JUST WATCHED Italy's Five Star Movement gains momentum Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Italy's Five Star Movement gains momentum 03:18Flu seasonThe worst is over, but we've still got a ways to go. Flu season has peaked in the US, the CDC says. But that doesn't mean we're all in the clear, as there are many more weeks of flu season to go. The CDC says if the flu is still circulating in your community, you still need to get a flu shot if you haven't gotten one yet. It's been a deadly flu season for children, with a total of 114 pediatric deaths, 13 more than all of last season.JUST WATCHED 4 ways the flu turns deadly Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 4 ways the flu turns deadly 01:39BREAKFAST BROWSELasting legacyA charity that honors the memory of Philando Castile has wiped out the lunch debt of all students in the school district where Castile worked as a nutrition supervisor.Shirt swapLacoste temporarily swapped out the iconic crocodile logo on its shirts with images of 10 endangered species , cause we all have to do our part to save the animals.Lacoste adopts temporary logo to help endangered species.Star struckMeet the 2-year-old so mesmerized by that new Michelle Obama portrait that she's convinced the former first lady is a queen.Record runRunners around the world are remembering Sir Roger Bannister, who was the first person to break the four-minute-mile barrier. He died at age 88.Real-life heroesA photographer helped turn six children fighting cancer into Wonder Woman, Superman and other members of the Justice League.NUMBER OF THE DAY67The death toll so far after a 7.5-magnitude earthquake hit Papua New Guinea's remote highlands last weekQUOTE OF THE DAYThis might be the best night I've had since watching your faces on election night.President Trump, making fun of the media (again) at the annual , making fun of the media (again) at the annual Gridiron Club Dinner , a white-tie event which draws both journalists and politiciansAND FINALLYCutting the cards