(CNN) It's #MyFreedomDay. Learn how students are standing up to modern slavery . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. National School Walkout2. Pennsylvania special electionThis one's going to go on for a little bit longer. Democrat Conor Lamb has a slight lead over Republican Rick Saccone in the special election to fill Pennsylvania's 18th Congressional District seat. Lamb declared victory, but Saccone vows to fight on. CNN's not projecting a winner just yet. Absentee and provisional ballots are still being counted, but CNN's John King , after analyzing the numbers, says it's unlikely Saccone can make up the difference.If Lamb's lead holds, it's a big ole warning sign for Republicans , even in districts considered safe, ahead of the midterms this fall. President Trump won the district by 20 points in 2016, and this close race could spur other Republican officeholders to retire. While some GOP officials would pin a Saccone loss on the candidate, others have pointed the finger at Trump's raucous rally on Saturday, which they said drove up Democratic turnout.JUST WATCHED Conor Lamb claims victory in PA House race Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Conor Lamb claims victory in PA House race 01:063. White HouseJUST WATCHED Why you shouldn't call your boss a moron Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why you shouldn't call your boss a moron 01:364. UK & RussiaJUST WATCHED Russian emigre Nikolai Glushkov found dead Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Russian emigre Nikolai Glushkov found dead 00:515. Stephen HawkingStephen Hawking may have been our era's greatest scientist, but he became something of a pop star, too. The British theoretical physicist died at the age of 76 . His life was, quite simply, remarkable. He overcame the debilitating disease ALS to publish a series of popular books probing the universe's mysteries. He went on to become something of a cultural icon as well, with appearances on everything from "The Simpsons" to "The Big Bang Theory."JUST WATCHED Physicist Stephen Hawking has died Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Physicist Stephen Hawking has died 02:46BREAKFAST BROWSECanada's Rosa ParksViola Desmond refused to give up her theater seat in 1946. Now, she's the first black person to appear alone on Canadian currency.Sweet charityWhen a local deputy was killed in the line of duty, this 6-year-old sold lemonade for donations -- and hauled in $7,000 for the officer's familyLight-headedThe 84-year-old man complained of balance problems. Doctors could hardly believe it when they found a 3 1/2-inch pocket of air in his brain.You've GOT to be kiddingA Chinese journalist on the sidelines of parliament rolled her eyes -- and broke the internet.TODAY'S NUMBER2That's how many feet of snow fell on New England as the region dealt with its third nor'easter in less than two weeks.JUST WATCHED Another nor'easter to pummel New England Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Another nor'easter to pummel New England 02:02AND FINALLYTutti frutti