(CNN) Yes, we're in the midst of World Cup madness, but Cristiano Ronaldo's move from Real Madrid to Juventus might be the only thing that could upstage sports' greatest event. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. NATO summitBreakfast get-togethers before NATO meetings are usually photo ops: world leaders smiling and making nice. Not while Donald Trump is President. During his breakfast today with NATO's Secretary General, Trump immediately laid into Jens Stoltenberg while the press was in the room, telling him that NATO allies still don't pay enough toward defense spending and that "Germany is a captive of Russia" because it buys energy from the country.Stoltenberg, trying to maintain a face of NATO unity, stressed that the alliance, despite some differences, is "stronger together than apart." Trump wasn't moved by that at all and repeated his grievances. We can probably expect more of the same from the President when he arrives at NATO headquarters in Brussels later this morning for the meet-and-greet with fellow NATO leaders2. PfizerJUST WATCHED Here's why drug prices are so high Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Here's why drug prices are so high 01:453. ObamacareThe Trump administration continues to chip away at the Affordable Care Act. It's once again slashing funding for the program that pays "navigators," usually from non-profit and community groups, to help people sign up. The government will only provide $10 million for the program for this fall, compared with $36 million last year and $63 million in 2016. The administration said the navigators are not effective; last year, it broadened the chances for private sector agents and brokers to assist consumers. Obamacare's advertising budget was cut as well, by 90%. Open enrollment for 2019 coverage begins in November.JUST WATCHED Trump mocks George H.W. Bush at campaign rally Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump mocks George H.W. Bush at campaign rally 02:084. Thailand cave rescueHappy endings seem so rare these days. Maybe that's why it feels like the whole world is reveling in the rescue of 12 boys and their soccer coach from that flooded cave in northern Thailand. The 13 are now recovering in the hospital . They're in good condition, doctors say, and each boy lost about 4 pounds during the long ordeal. They didn't eat any food in the nine days before they were found and drank from the cave's murky water. So far, the boys have talked to their relatives through a glass partition because doctors want to reduce the risk of infection. They'll be in the hospital for at least a week.JUST WATCHED CNN reporter goes inside Thai cave Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN reporter goes inside Thai cave 01:285. Sex addictionThe World Health Organization, fresh off criticism over adding gaming disorders to its list of mental health disorders, also added sex addiction to the list -- and that's now stirring more controversy. It's the first time compulsive sexual behavior has been classified as a mental health disorder on the International Classification of Diseases. But not all clinicians believe it should be there. They're not convinced that sex is truly addictive and view the label as potentially shamingJUST WATCHED Sex addiction: Explanation or excuse? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sex addiction: Explanation or excuse? 04:52TODAY'S NUMBER$200 billionThat's the value of the new round of tariffs on Chinese goods -- including fruits and vegetables, handbags, refrigerators, rain jackets and baseball gloves -- that the Trump administration is prepping.JUST WATCHED How Trump's trade war could affect your wallet Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How Trump's trade war could affect your wallet 03:46BREAKFAST BROWSEFantastic findA sheriff's deputy was giving up hope that a missing 5-month-old baby would be found. Then, he heard a whimperJUST WATCHED Baby survived being buried for 9 hours Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Baby survived being buried for 9 hours 02:17Go IrishAttention royal watchers: The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are on the move. Harry and Meghan are in Ireland , their first official international trip together.Pooh's homeThe original map of the Hundred Acre Wood is worth a lot more than a hundred bucks. It sold for almost $600,000 at auction.Aw, nuts!If you love getting those little bags of peanuts while riding Southwest Airlines, you'll have to start bringing your own . Southwest will soon stop serving them.JUST WATCHED Peanut allergy gets family booted from plane Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Peanut allergy gets family booted from plane 01:45HAPPENING LATERWorld Cup wowJUST WATCHED England manager creates spike in waistcoat sales Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH England manager creates spike in waistcoat sales 01:42TODAY'S QUOTES"Keep a low profile."JUST WATCHED 'Trump baby' balloon approved by London mayor Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Trump baby' balloon approved by London mayor 01:34"Oh gosh, I am so excited over this EthioEritrea thingy, I just called on a random number ... and had a nice chat with a lady named Frtuna."AND FINALLYSounds like kids