(CNN) Hundreds of new laws went into effect on July 1 for many state and local governments.Here's a look at some of the new rules:Seattle bans plastic straws and utensilsParts of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Public Safety ActNew rules for California marijuana productsNew regulations for safety and testing went into effect, requiring that marijuana products sold in California must now pass additional tests for certain chemicals, pesticides and foreign materials. This prompted many California dispensaries to slash prices this weekend to sell off products that won't be permitted after July 1. Recreational marijuana became legal in California at the beginning of the year.$15 minimum wage in SFSan Francisco's minimum wage hit $15 an hour on Sunday, becoming the first major city in the US to reach that mark. This is an increase from $14. City voters passed the initiative to raise the minimum wage in 2014. Every July from now on, the wage rate will be adjusted based on annual increases in the Consumer Price Index.Must be 18 years or older to marry in FloridaFloridians may not get marriage licenses if they're under the age of 18, except under certain circumstances. The new law is intended to protect minors who may be pressured into early marriages.Some adoption records open in IndianaIndiana residents who were adopted before January 1, 1983, can now request access to their adoption records under a new law. This access is only permitted to eligible individuals such as an adult adoptee, adoptive parent, birth parent and birth sibling. A biological parent can file to block access.Tighter alcohol rules for California's ride-share driversDrivers for services like Uber or Lyft will face lower blood alcohol limits under a new California law. This lowers the limit for DUIs for such drivers from blood alcohol concentration 0.08 down to 0.04.More recess time in VirginiaElementary school kids could get more recess in the new school year. A new law permits unstructured recreational time "in any calculation of total instructional time or teaching hours, provided that such unstructured recreational time does not exceed 15 percent of total instructional time or teaching hours."Sunscreens allowed in school without doctor's note