(CNN) Look to the skies tonight, if you live in the Eastern Hemisphere. That'll be the best place to see the longest total lunar eclipse of the century . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Russia investigationMichael Cohen, President Donald Trump's former personal attorney, claims then-candidate Trump knew in advance about the June 2016 meeting in Trump Tower in which Russians were expected to offer his campaign dirt on Hillary Clinton, sources with knowledge tell CNN. And Cohen is willing to make that assertion to special counsel Robert Mueller. Cohen alleges he was present, along with several others, when Trump was informed of the Russians' offer by Donald Trump Jr. By Cohen's account, Trump approved going ahead with the meeting with the Russians, according to sources.Cohen's claim would contradict repeated denials by Trump, Trump Jr., their lawyers and other administration officials who have said the President knew nothing about the Trump Tower meeting until he was approached about it in July 2017 by The New York Times. CNN's Chris Cillizza says if Cohen's telling the truth, it's the biggest step to date toward suggesting or proving collusion between Trump and the Russians. But if Cohen's bluffing or can't deliver, this Russia bombshell is much ado about nothing.2. North KoreaThe possible remains of US troops killed during the Korean War have been handed over by North Korea. A US Air Force C-17 plane flew to Wonsan, North Korea, to retrieve an initial 55 cases holding the suspected remains. The plane later landed at an air base in South Korea, where troops from the United Nations Command presented an honor guard. President Trump called the return of the remains a "great moment for so many families." Returning the remains was a commitment North Korean leader Kim Jong Un made last month when he met with Trump.The remains will be flown to a military lab in Hawaii for DNA analysis; it could take months to determine how many service members can be ID'd. North Korea handed over the remains on the anniversary of the signing of the armistice that ended the conflict, which killed of tens of thousands of Americans.JUST WATCHED Families waited decades for loved ones' remains Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Families waited decades for loved ones' remains 02:333. Family separationsJUST WATCHED Families remain separated as deadline passes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Families remain separated as deadline passes 01:584. Pakistan electionJUST WATCHED Is this cricketeer Pakistan's next prime minister? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is this cricketeer Pakistan's next prime minister? 01:435. FacebookOuch. What else can you say about what happened yesterday to Facebook on Wall Street? The social media giant's shares plummeted 19% , wiping out $119 billion in market value. It was the worst day for any company in stock market history. The plunge was so deep that it knocked Mark Zuckerberg (who personally lost $16 billion) from fourth to sixth on the list of the world's richest people. Facebook's said it's going to spend a lot of money to improve safety and security on the site , which will eat into profits for a while, thus the Wall Street freak-out. But financial analysts say Facebook has structured itself to bounce back from this , so investors shouldn't panic.JUST WATCHED Why Facebook's stock is plummeting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why Facebook's stock is plummeting 01:16BREAKFAST BROWSEGoing nativeVancouver's pulled the plug on Morgan Freeman as the voice of its public transit, opting for the soothing sounds of Seth Rogen instead.JUST WATCHED Rogen to Ryan: 'I hate what you're doing to the country' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rogen to Ryan: 'I hate what you're doing to the country' 01:36Papa John v. Papa John'sJohn Schnatter is taking the pizza chain he founded to court , saying it has treated him in a "heavy-handed way" since his ouster over a racial slur.JUST WATCHED Papa John's is losing the pizza wars. Big time. Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Papa John's is losing the pizza wars. Big time. 01:39Reading assignmentThink you finished "The Autobiography of Malcolm X?" Well, you're not done. An unpublished chapter of the book was sold to the NYC Public Library.Rest in peaceMiyako Chiyo, the world's oldest person, has died at age 117 . Chiyo lived in Japan, where it's almost no big deal for people to live past 100.The cat's meowEver wonder what that special something is that drives entrepreneurs to success? A new study says it might be a parasite found in cat poop . No, really.Taking some timeCardi B won't be "finessing" with Bruno Mars this fall on tour. She wants to spend more time with her new baby girl.JUST WATCHED Cardi B gives birth to first child Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cardi B gives birth to first child 01:05HAPPENING LATERSky highJUST WATCHED What does a Trump presidency mean for the Fed? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What does a Trump presidency mean for the Fed? 01:22TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeJackpot! The winning Mega Millions lottery ticket was sold in California by what kind of business?A. a supermarketB. a gas stationC. a liquor storeD. a movie theaterPlay " Total Recall: The CNN news quiz " to see if you're right. And don't forget, you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices! Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."TODAY'S NUMBER150The number of people hurt after about 800 migrants from sub-Saharan Africa -- some wielding electric saws, shears and mallets -- stormed a border fence between Morocco and Spain and clashed with policeJUST WATCHED EU summit deal reached on migrant crisis Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH EU summit deal reached on migrant crisis 02:28TODAY'S QUOTE"We are going to leave the station because (it) is now unsafe to be here."KRCR anchor Allison Woods, announcing during a live newscast that the station in Redding, California, was being evacuated as a wildfire approachedJUST WATCHED Bulldozer driver killed in California wildfire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bulldozer driver killed in California wildfire 00:35AND FINALLYEasy does it