(CNN) Our World Cup final combatants are set. France will face Croatia -- which needed extra time again to hold back England -- in Sunday's match. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. NATO summitPresident Trump returned to NATO headquarters in Brussels this morning for Day 2 of its summit. And everyone's waiting to see what the President has in store after he dumbfounded diplomats with his sharp rhetoric and outrageous claims on Day 1. One of Trump's main issues with NATO is the amount each country spends on defense. He'd been hammering allies with calls for all NATO members to honor commitments to spend 2% of their GDP. Then yesterday, Trump said everyone should spend 4% -- a level even the US doesn't meet.Trump isn't the first to ask NATO to pay moreTrump isn't the first to ask NATO to pay more 01:39Trump isn't the first to ask NATO to pay more2. ImmigrationMore asylum-seekers will be turned away at the border under a new Trump administration policy. Asylum claims based on fears of gang or domestic violence will immediately be rejected , according to new guidance given to officers who interview asylum-seekers at US borders and evaluate refugee applications . If an immigrant crosses the border illegally, that will also be considered in possibly rejecting an asylum claim (the policy also applies to refugee applicants abroad). The move will likely draw condemnation and legal challenges from immigrant advocates, who believe the new policy may violate international law.Meanwhile, the reunification of all migrant children younger than 5 with their parents should be completed today . But the government is still facing down another deadline -- July 26 -- to reunite thousands of older children with their parents.JUST WATCHED Migrants undeterred by Trump's practices Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Migrants undeterred by Trump's practices 02:343. Papa John'sThe founder and public face of Papa John's is out. John Schnatter resigned as chairman of the pizza company after word got out that he u sed the N-word during a conference call in May. Schnatter admitted he used the word while participating in a role-playing exercise designed to prevent public relations crises , and he apologized. "Racism has no place in our society," he said. Schnatter, who starred in his company's commercials, stirred controversy last year when he said Papa John's sales were hurt by the NFL's handling of players kneeling during the National Anthem to protest racial injustice. The nation's third-largest pizza chain said it would pick a new chairman soon.JUST WATCHED Forbes: Papa John's founder used N-word during call Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Forbes: Papa John's founder used N-word during call 00:454. IndiaThere's another high-profile rape case brewing in India. A 15-year-old girl says she was repeatedly raped by 19 people -- her educators and classmates -- over a six-month period. The girl alleges she was raped by three or four boys in the first incident, then raped by the others when they found out and threatened to expose it. A school principal, two teachers and four boys have been arrested; they say they're innocent. The incident follows a string of violent sexual assaults on minors that have prompted massive protests in India . About 100 sexual assaults are reported to the police in the country every day.JUST WATCHED The women and girls of Delhi are fighting back Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The women and girls of Delhi are fighting back 02:035. Twitter and FacebookIf your number of Twitter followers suddenly drops this week, don't be alarmed. Twitter's just getting rid of the bots. Twitter said it's purging tens of millions of suspicious accounts from its platform. Most people will lose four or fewer followers, but the big-time accounts of celebrities and other famous folks will lose many more. The move comes after The New York Times wrote about a firm that sold millions of fake followers to customers who wanted to boost their stature on Twitter.Facebook's waging war on the fake stuff, too. The company held a big presentation for the media in which it bragged about its efforts to get fake news and misinformation off its pages . But during a Q&A with reporters, the head of Facebook's News Feed couldn't explain why a company like InfoWars, which peddles conspiracy theories, is still on its platform.JUST WATCHED Russians trolls organized a protest in the US Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Russians trolls organized a protest in the US 03:51THIS JUST IN ...ShowstopperStormy Daniels was arrested at a strip club in Columbus, Ohio . She's accused of letting a customer touch her while on stage, a violation of state law. Her attorney says the arrest of Daniels, who claims to have had an affair with Donald Trump, is politically motivated. Trump denies an affair.JUST WATCHED Stormy Daniels arrested at strip club in Ohio Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Stormy Daniels arrested at strip club in Ohio 00:31BREAKFAST BROWSEDaily debunkNo, movie mogul Tyler Perry isn't buying you a new car , no matter what that Facebook post your mom forwarded to you says.JUST WATCHED Tyler Perry addresses Facebook scam Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tyler Perry addresses Facebook scam 01:39Do it for the KultureCongrats to rappers Cardi B and Offset, who announced the birth of their daughter , named Kulture Kiari Cephus.JUST WATCHED Cardi B gives birth to first child Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cardi B gives birth to first child 01:055-year-old princesses everywhere will be thrilledEver wonder what the world's oldest color is ? (No, really, have you ever?) Scientists looked into it, and it turns out it's bright pink.Pic problemsThe Instagram model's photo shoot in the Bahamas was going swimmingly -- until a shark bit her on the arm and dragged her underwater. She'll be OK.JUST WATCHED Shark bites Instagram model on vacation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Shark bites Instagram model on vacation 01:23HAPPENING LATEREmmy timeEmmy nominations come out this morning , and everyone will be watching to see whether "Game of Thrones" can regain its awards mojo and how well streaming hits like "The Handmaid's Tale" and "GLOW" fare.JUST WATCHED Can Hulu keep 'Handmaid's Tale' momentum? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Can Hulu keep 'Handmaid's Tale' momentum? 02:30TODAY'S NUMBERS$8.55The current price for a bushel of US soybeans . The price, which is a 10-year low, is a result of the ongoing trade war between the US and China.JUST WATCHED China is hitting the US where it hurts: Soybeans Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China is hitting the US where it hurts: Soybeans 01:54$34 billionTODAY'S QUOTE"She did hurt me, but I cannot be an enemy and say I condemn her ... May God forgive her for what she did to me."Rodolfo Rodriguez, the 91-year-old man who says he was beaten with a brick in California, telling CNN affiliate KABC in Spanish that he doesn't resent his attacker , who reportedly told him to "go back to Mexico"JUST WATCHED Man beaten with brick on daily walk Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man beaten with brick on daily walk 01:33AND FINALLYDoggone good