Photos: Zsa Zsa, an English bulldog, shows off her drooling skills during the 2018 World's Ugliest Dog Contest in Petaluma, California, on June 23. Zsa Zsa went on to win the competition, which comes with a $1,500 prize, a trophy and a trip to New York for her and her owner, Megan Brainard. Hide Caption 1 of 12Photos: Brainard, center, celebrates after Zsa Zsa, bottom, is announced the winner of the 30th World's Ugliest Dog Contest. Also pictured are Yvonne Morones, left, and Linda Elmquist, holding their less-ugly dogs Scamp and Josie, who came in second and third, respectively. Hide Caption 2 of 12Photos: Rascal Deux, a Chinese crested, gets a kiss from owner Dane Andrew during the contest, which saw 15 dogs vying for the title of the competition's homeliest. Hide Caption 3 of 12Photos: Martha, a Neapolitan Mastiff who won the 2017 World's Ugliest Dog Contest, appears onstage before learning the crown would be snatched from her massive head. Hide Caption 4 of 12Photos: Scamp, who might be a terrier mix, enjoys listening to youngsters read. The pup's favorite book is "Go, Dog. Go!," contest organizers say. Hide Caption 5 of 12Photos: Tee Tee, another Chinese crested, makes a face before the judges. Hide Caption 6 of 12Photos: At 14 years old, Daisy is one of the elder stateswomen of the competition (that's 98 in dog years). Here owner Whitney Sherman cradles her codger Chihuahua mix. Hide Caption 7 of 12Photos: Wild Thang, a Pekingese, leaves no question about where it got its name as the pup appears on stage during the event. Hide Caption 8 of 12Photos: Another Chinese crested mix with yet another ... expressive? ... tongue, Josie is a regular at the World's Ugliest Dog Contest, organizers say. Hide Caption 9 of 12Photos: Meatloaf, another bulldog, also goes by many names, including Meaty, Meatball, Mystery Meat and Snorlax. He was competing for the cash prize to fund a much-needed eye surgery. Hide Caption 10 of 12Photos: Heather Wilson holds up her dog, Himisaboo, a Chinese crested-Dachshund mix, during the World's Ugliest Dog Contest. Hide Caption 11 of 12