Story highlights Ailina Tsarnaev was charged after another woman received a bomb threat by phoneShe is the sister of Dzhokhar and Tamerlan TsarnaevThey were sought after he 2013 Boston Marathon bombingTamerlan died in a police shootout, and Dzhokhar was captured and awaits trialThe sister of the Boston Marathon bombing suspect was arrested in New York City on Wednesday for allegedly making a bomb threat, police said.Ailina Tsarnaev, 24, sister of Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev , was charged with aggravated harassment after a bomb threat was made by phone to another woman Monday.The recipient, whose name was not released, notified police of the threat, according to New York Police Department Lt. John Grimpel.Ailina Tsarnaev, a resident of North Bergen, New Jersey, turned herself in to authorities Wednesday.Her boyfriend shares a child with the woman who was threatened, Grimpel said.Photos: Photos: Boston Marathon bombing anniversary Photos: Photos: Boston Marathon bombing anniversary Boston Marathon bombing anniversary – People pause Tuesday, April 15, as the American flag is raised at the finish line of the Boston Marathon, where two homemade bombs went off one year ago. It was the deadliest terrorist attack in the United States since 9/11. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Photos: Boston Marathon bombing anniversary Boston Marathon bombing anniversary – A wreath was laid at one of the bomb sites, under a steady rain on Boston's Boylston Street. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Photos: Boston Marathon bombing anniversary Boston Marathon bombing anniversary – Sharon Neary, of Rochester, New York, cries while watching Tuesday's ceremony in Boston. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Photos: Boston Marathon bombing anniversary Boston Marathon bombing anniversary – The family of Martin Richard, an 8-year-old boy killed in the attack, meet with Cardinal Sean Patrick O'Malley during the wreath-laying ceremony. Martin was one of three people killed in the bombings. At least 264 people were injured. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Photos: Boston Marathon bombing anniversary Boston Marathon bombing anniversary – From left, former Boston Mayor Tom Menino, Boston Mayor Martin Walsh, Vice President Joe Biden and Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick lower their heads for a moment of silence during the tribute. "America will never, ever, ever stand down," Biden said during the ceremony. "We are Boston. We are America. We respond, we endure, we overcome and we own the finish line." Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Photos: Boston Marathon bombing anniversary Boston Marathon bombing anniversary – Olivia Savarino, facing the camera, hugs Christelle Pierre-Louis during the ceremonies on Boylston Street. Savarino was working at the Forum restaurant when a bomb went off in front of the building on April 15, 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Photos: Boston Marathon bombing anniversary Boston Marathon bombing anniversary – Flowers lie on the finish line of the Boston Marathon. The annual race will take place next Monday, April 21. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Photos: Boston Marathon bombing anniversary Boston Marathon bombing anniversary – Members of the Boston Police Department, the Boston Fire Department and the Massachusetts State Police march prior to Tuesday's wreath-laying ceremony. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Photos: Boston Marathon bombing anniversary Boston Marathon bombing anniversary – A Boston police officer waves traffic across the finish line. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Photos: Boston Marathon bombing anniversary Boston Marathon bombing anniversary – Running shoes are laid out in a display at the Boston Public Library. It's called "Dear Boston: Messages from the Marathon Memorial." Hide Caption 10 of 10Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Dias Kadyrbayev, left, with Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsamaev in a picture taken from the social media site VK.com. Kadyrbayev is expected to plead guilty August 21 to charges in connection with removing a backpack and computer from Tsamaev's dorm room after the April 2013 bombing, according to a defense lawyer. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed during the shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19, 2013. He is pictured here at the 2010 New England Golden Gloves. Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was captured in a Boston suburb on April 19, 2013, after a manhunt that shut down the city. In July, he pleaded not guilty to killing four people and wounding more than 200. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – From left, Azamat Tazhayakov and Dias Kadyrbayev went with Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to Times Square in this photo taken from the social media site VK.com. A federal grand jury charged Tazhayakov and Kadyrbayev with obstructing justice and conspiracy to obstruct justice relating to the removal of a backpack from Tsarnaev's dorm room after the bombings. Tazhayakov was convicted of conspiracy and obstruction charges in July 2014. He faces up to 25 years in prison at his sentencing in October. He has filed an appeal. Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Robel Phillipos, a U.S. citizen, was also arrested on May 1, 2013 . He was charged with lying to federal agents about the bombing, according to court papers. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Phillipos, Tazhayakov and Kadyrbayev are accused of removing items from Tsarnaev's dorm room after the bombings on April 15, 2013. The items they took included a backpack containing fireworks that had been "opened and emptied of powder," according to the affidavit. Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The FBI released photos and video on April 18, 2013, of two men identified as Suspect 1 and Suspect 2 in the deadly bombings at the Boston Marathon. They were later identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, and his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26. Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Boston Police released surveillance images of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev at a convenience store on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The FBI tweeted this photo on April 19, 2013, and urged Watertown residents to stay indoors as they searched for the second suspect. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The FBI released photos and video on April 18, 2013, of two men it called suspects in the deadly bombings and pleaded for public help in identifying them. The men were photographed walking together near the finish line. Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – A man identified as Suspect 2 appeared in this photograph by bystander David Green, who took the photo after completing the Boston Marathon. Green submitted the photo to the FBI, he told Piers Morgan in an interview. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – The man identified as Suspect 2 appears in a tighter crop of David Green's photo. Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Authorities later identified Suspect 1 as Tamerlan Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 was identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 1 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 1 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 1 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Both suspects are seen walking through the crowd. Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 walks through the crowd. Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – A photo released by the FBI highlights Suspect 2. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – A photo released by the FBI highlights Suspect 2. Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Photos: Suspects tied to Boston bombings Suspects tied to Boston bombings – Suspect 2 walks through the crowd. See all photography related to the Boston bombings. Hide Caption 23 of 23Alina Tsarnaev is no longer in custody and is expected to report to Manhattan criminal court on September 30, according to Grimpel.Calls to her attorney were not immediately returned to CNN.Her brothers were accused of planting pressure-cooker bombs at the finish line of the 2013 Boston Marathon that killed three people and injured more than 260. They also were accused of killing a Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer.