Story highlights California drought having ramifications beyond the stateMeat and produce prices are on the rise as a resultMandatory and voluntary conservation water programs being implemented in WestTourism businesses also are taking a hitJust how bad is the drought in California? It's so bad, that in some extreme cases, thieves are stealing water.A father and daughter living off a water tank in the Central Valley report being ripped off eight times -- 2,500 gallons disappeared. That meant no showers -- and no toilet flushing.In most of California's major reservoirs, the water supplies that sustain many communities are less than half full. The lack of rain has pushed most of California into extreme or exceptional drought, the two worst levels, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor. In most of California's major reservoirs, the water supplies that sustain many communities are less than half full.With water sources drying up, farmers are looking for underground springs to support their livelihoods.Steve Arthur works in California's San Joaquin Valley, drilling for water wells on drought-ravaged farms and ranches."It's just going crazy; people are starting to panic," said Arthur, the owner of Arthur & Orum Well Drilling Inc.Photos: California's historic drought Photos: California's historic drought Inmates at a state prison in Vacaville, California, install a drought-tolerant garden in October. The garden will be watered using reclaimed water from the prison's kitchen. California is entering its fifth year of severe drought. Hide Caption 1 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought California State Assemblyman Devon Mathis speaks to members of the media after he helped secure a donation of 100,000 water bottles in September. More than 300 homes in Porterville, California, were out of running water because of dried-up wells. Hide Caption 2 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Evacuee James Logan embraces his wife, Lisa, as they listen to an update about a wildfire in Clearlake Oakes, California, in August. Drought conditions have fueled numerous wildfires across the state. Hide Caption 3 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Firefighters hike down a hill in Clearlake, California, as they mop up hot spots from the Rocky Fire in August. Hide Caption 4 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A golfer in San Francisco hits a shot in July. After Gov. Jerry Brown ordered a statewide water-use reduction of 25%, golf courses have been struggling to keep their fairways and greens watered. Hide Caption 5 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought People picnic in July on the sandy bottom of Mirror Lake, which is normally covered with water at Yosemite National Park. Hide Caption 6 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A man applies green paint to a brown lawn in Novato, California, in May. Hide Caption 7 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A close-up of the dry Guadalupe Creek, as seen in San Jose, California, in April. Hide Caption 8 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Workers install artificial grass at a home in Burlingame, California, in April. Hide Caption 9 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Motorists in Rancho Cordova, California, pass a sign in April reminding them to reduce water use. Hide Caption 10 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A woman in Sequoia National Park looks up at barren terrain typically populated by skiers in April. Hide Caption 11 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought California Gov. Jerry Brown, right, walks with Frank Gehrke, chief of the California Cooperative Snow Surveys Program for the Department of Water Resources, near Echo Summit, California, in April. Gehrke said this was the first time since he has been conducting the survey that he found no snow at that location at that time of the year. Hide Caption 12 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought People hike along a ridge overlooking the Griffith Observatory, where vegetation was drying out in Los Angeles in March 2015. Hide Caption 13 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought In March 2015, a power boat sits on a Lake McClure parking lot that used to be underwater in La Grange, California. Hide Caption 14 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Low water is seen at the dam of Lake Success, near East Porterville, California, in February 2015. Hide Caption 15 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought This picture taken from a helicopter shows a drought-affected area near Los Altos Hills, California, in July 2014. Hide Caption 16 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A woman walks her dog in San Francisco in July 2014. Hide Caption 17 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A worker washes the sidewalk in front of a San Francisco hotel in July 2014. Hide Caption 18 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought In June 2014, a pedestrian walks by a sign posted in front of the lawn at the California State Capitol in Sacramento. Hide Caption 19 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Residents photograph the burning ruins of their home, which was destroyed in a wildfire in Carlsbad, California, in May 2014. Hide Caption 20 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Volunteers pack bags of oatmeal at a San Francisco food bank in May 2014. The longstanding drought has contributed to an increase in food prices. Hide Caption 21 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Fingerling Chinook salmon are dumped into a holding pen as they are transferred from a truck into the Sacramento River in March 2014. Low water levels forced wildlife officials to truck more than 400,000 fish nearly 300 miles. They usually make the trip on their own. Hide Caption 22 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A tractor plows a field in Firebaugh, California, in February 2014. Almond farmer Barry Baker had 1,000 acres -- 20% -- of his almond trees removed because he didn't have access to enough water to keep them alive. Hide Caption 23 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Plumbing technician Todd Snider installs an aerator at a home in Novato in February 2014. Californians have been installing water-saving devices in their homes to reduce consumption. Hide Caption 24 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A worker installs an artificial lawn in front of an apartment building in San Jose in January 2014. Hide Caption 25 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A car sits at the bottom of the Almaden Reservoir in San Jose in January 2014. Hide Caption 26 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Rocky shores are exposed by the low waters of Morris Reservoir, on the San Gabriel River near Azusa, California, in January 2014. Hide Caption 27 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought During a news conference in San Francisco in January 2014, Gov. Jerry Brown holds a chart showing the statewide average precipitation. The governor declared a drought emergency for the state, saying it faced "perhaps the worst drought that California has ever seen since records (began) about 100 years ago." Hide Caption 28 of 28JUST WATCHED Water-shaming app popular during drought Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Water-shaming app popular during drought 01:39JUST WATCHED Pot farmers' impact on California drought Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pot farmers' impact on California drought 03:03Arthur said he is now drilling three times as many water wells."You go to the city, and some people don't know there's a drought," he told CNN. "Then they pay more for their milk, and they realize this drought is making it more expensive for these poor farmers to put food on your table."It's a problem that extends well beyond agriculturally rich California.The U.S. Department of Agriculture predicts some meat and produce prices will rise as much as 6% as farmers pay more money to water crops and feed livestock. Earlier this year, beef prices hit a record high, and milk, butter, eggs, fruit and vegetables were also on the rise as the drought continued to ravage farms.Avocados could increase as much as 35 cents each, lettuce could increase up to 62 cents per head, and tomatoes could jump by 45 cents, up to $2.84 per pound, according to an analysis by professor Timothy Richards of Arizona State University's W.P. Carey School of Business.The fast-food chains Chipotle and In-N-Out Burger have already raised prices, partly blaming the drought.Mandatory and voluntary water conservation programs have been implemented throughout the West.Some cities have restricted residential water use, shut off public fountains and even let the grass in parks die. In mid-July, California officials approved statewide emergency water restrictions. The restrictions go into effect Friday, and infractions could bring fines of $500 per day.In California and beyond, shrinking lakes show just how bad things are.It's an inverse ripple effect -- the fresh water keeps draining, sucking down with it tourism business.Kern River Outfitters shut down its entire rafting operation this year because attempting to paddle downstream would have been a dangerous, futile effort over exposed Kern River rocks."The California drought has reduced projected Kern River flows to a level that is inadequate to run the top-quality rafting trips our guests expect," the company's website says.At many lakes, now landlocked boat docks are upward hikes from the water.Campers Ed and Barbie Perkins sat in lawn chairs just 3 feet from the shore of California's Lake Nacimiento, which has receded to 81% of its capacity."Normally we'd be way under water," Barbie Perkins said from their campsite. "You would be able to drive your boat here. You would not be camping down here."In Nevada, Lake Mead is at its lowest level since the dam was built in the 1930s. The lake supplies water to parts of Nevada, Arizona, Southern California and northern Mexico, and the supply is disappearing."I think it's important for people to realize water is a finite resource," said Rose Davis, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, Lower Colorado Region. "When you turn on the tap, it does not just magically appear. It has to come from the Colorado River."In Santa Barbara, California, a program to reduce or stop watering in public parks has turned once pool-table green swatches of lawn along the waterfront into patches that look more like burlap.At Hearst Castle in San Simeon, the iconic Neptune Pool sits empty.Sparkling blue water has given way to a skateboarders' dreamland and a reminder of horrific drought.