Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – South Korean players hold coach Sang Hoon-hwang after winning the championship baseball game against Chicago at the Little League World Series in South Williamsport, Pennsylvania, on Sunday, August 24. South Korea won 8-4. Hide Caption 1 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – South Korea's Hae Chan-choi, center, celebrates with teammates after getting the final out of a 8-4 win against Chicago. Hide Caption 2 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – South Korea's Jae Yeong-hwang, left, is tagged out by Chicago's Cameron Bufford while attempting to steal third. Hide Caption 3 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – South Korea's Dong Wan-sin watches his solo home run off Chicago's Brandon Green in the fifth inning on August 24. Hide Caption 4 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – South Korea's Hae Chan-choi, No. 21, celebrates with teammates after hitting a two-run home run off Chicago's Brandon Green in the sixth inning on August 24. Hide Caption 5 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – Chicago center fielder DJ Butler catches a ball by South Korea's Jae Yeong-hwang at the wall on August 24. Hide Caption 6 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – Chicago's Trey Hondras, in yellow, scores past South Korea's Sang Hoon-han on a two-run double by Darion Radcliff during the sixth inning on August 24. Hide Caption 7 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – Chicago's Marquis Jackson fails to reach a single by South Korea's Tae Min-moon during the sixth inning on Augutst 24. Hide Caption 8 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – Chicago's Brandon Green drives the ball in the fifth inning of the U.S. championship baseball game against Las Vegas at the Little League World Series on Saturday, August 23, in Williamsport, Pennsylvania. Chicago won 7-5 and will face the international champion, South Korea, for the world championship. Hide Caption 9 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – South Korea players celebrate after defeating Japan 12-3 on August 23. Hide Caption 10 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – Fans of the South Korean squad cheer between innings on August 23. Hide Caption 11 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – Members of Team Japan look on from the dugout during the fifth inning of their 12-3 loss to Team Asia-Pacific on August 23. Hide Caption 12 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – Justin Hausner of the West team from Las Vegas celebrates after scoring a first inning run against the Great Lakes Team from Chicago on August 23. Hide Caption 13 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – Las Vegas player Dallan Cave reacts after a 7-5 loss to Chicago on August 23. Hide Caption 14 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – Mexico's Juan Garz celebrates as he rounds second after hitting a solo home run off Japan's pitcher Ren Takeuchi in the first inning on Thursday, August 21. Hide Caption 15 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – Australia's Javier Pelkonen, center of pile, is mobbed by teammates after hitting a home run during the fourth inning against the Czech Republic on Saturday, August 16. Hide Caption 16 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – Australia's Calvin Eissens is sent flying after forcing out Czech Republic's Marek Krejcirik at second base during the third inning on Saturday, August 16. Hide Caption 17 of 19Photos: Little League World Series Little League World Series – Pennsylvania's Mo'ne Davis delivers in the first inning against Tennessee on Friday, August 15. Davis, 13, became the first female player in Little League World Series history to throw a complete-game shutout. Hide Caption 18 of 19