Story highlights Tony Stewart fatally struck dirt-track driver Kevin Ward Jr. last weekendAuthorities are investigating, but no charges have been filed in the caseRace team: Stewart won't be in the next Sprint Cup race, but he may returnThe announcement comes the same day as Ward's funeral in New York stateThe same day the man he fatally struck was laid to rest, NASCAR driver Tony Stewart 's team announced that he won't be racing this weekend -- though it didn't rule a return to the track soon thereafter.In a brief statement, Stewart-Haas Racing said Thursday that Stewart "has decided not to compete" in Sunday's race in NASCAR's top division, the Sprint Cup Series.Jeff Burton will take his place in the No. 14 car in the Pure Michigan 400 at Michigan International Speedway."The driver change pertains only to Michigan," the Stewart-Haas Racing team said. "Stewart's plans for upcoming Sprint Cup races have yet to be determined."Stewart's future outside the track is also in question, as authorities investigate the death of fellow driver Kevin Ward Jr . at an August 9 Empire Super Sprints series dirt-track race in upstate New York.Video from the Canandaigua Motorsports Park race shows two cars coming out of a turn, with Stewart's No. 14 car sliding up the track toward Ward's No. 13 car. The two cars get close and appear to make contact before Ward's car hits the wall and spins out.Photos: Racer Tony Stewart Photos: Racer Tony Stewart – NASCAR driver Tony Stewart looks on in the garage area during practice for a race in Watkins Glen, New York, on Friday, August 8. Stewart is a three-time champion in NASCAR's top division. Hide Caption 1 of 13 Photos: Racer Tony Stewart Stewart signs autographs for fans during a practice in Loudon, New Hampshire, in July 2014. Hide Caption 2 of 13 Photos: Racer Tony Stewart Stewart gets out of his car after a crash in Daytona Beach, Florida, in July 2014. Hide Caption 3 of 13 Photos: Racer Tony Stewart Stewart and Danica Patrick ride down pit road before a race in Brooklyn, Michigan, in June 2014. Hide Caption 4 of 13 Photos: Racer Tony Stewart Stewart poses with a rifle awarded to him after qualifying for pole position at a race in Fort Worth, Texas, in April 2014. Hide Caption 5 of 13 Photos: Racer Tony Stewart Stewart makes a pit stop during the Daytona 500 in February 2014. Hide Caption 6 of 13 Photos: Racer Tony Stewart Driver Ryan Newman talks with Stewart in September 2013. Stewart broke his leg a month earlier during a race in Oskaloosa, Iowa. Hide Caption 7 of 13 Photos: Racer Tony Stewart Personnel prepare to load Stewart into an ambulance after his wreck in Oskaloosa in August 2013. Hide Caption 8 of 13 Photos: Racer Tony Stewart Stewart shakes hands with a member of the military at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway in July 2013. Hide Caption 9 of 13 Photos: Racer Tony Stewart Stewart sits in his car during a practice in July 2013. Hide Caption 10 of 13 Photos: Racer Tony Stewart Stewart celebrates with a burnout after winning a race in Dover, Delaware, in June 2013. Hide Caption 11 of 13 Photos: Racer Tony Stewart Stewart, in car No. 14, spins out after a wreck in Richmond, Virginia, in April 2013. Hide Caption 12 of 13 Photos: Racer Tony Stewart Stewart poses after winning a race in Daytona in February 2013. Hide Caption 13 of 13JUST WATCHED Tony Stewart known as a 'hot head'? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tony Stewart known as a 'hot head'? 03:17JUST WATCHED Will Stewart face criminal charges? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Will Stewart face criminal charges? 02:24Ward gets out of his crashed car and walks determinedly on the track toward the race cars, which had slowed for a yellow flag. Ward points a finger and appears to be yelling. One car swerves to avoid Ward on the half-mile dirt track.Stewart's car passes close to Ward, and it appears that its right rear tire hits him.Authorities announced two days later that 20-year-old Ward, a New York sprint car driver, had died of "massive blunt trauma."Ontario County Sheriff Philip C. Povero said that there was no evidence at that point that a crime was committed, adding that the investigation was progressing well.Tony Stewart did not drive Sunday in a NASCAR Sprint Cup race at Watkins Glen International race track.Some have speculated that Stewart -- who was interviewed after the incident -- could face charges.Even if authorities don't press charges, one person not convinced of Stewart's innocence is Ward's father.According to a story on Syracuse.com , Kevin Ward Sr. said that other drivers saw his son walking on the track."Apparently, Tony Stewart was the only one driving out there who didn't see him," the father said, according to the report.In the same story, Kevin Ward Sr. asked the world to remember his son as a talented driver who seemingly "slept with a smile on his face."Hundreds joined the Ward family to remember him Thursday at his funeral at South Lewis Central School.The mourners passed a row of bouquets to get into the school, some wiping away tears as they did.Afterward, people gathered outside to release balloons that were orange and white, Ward's racing colors. They then gave theracer one last round of applause, not because of his racing exploits but because of the young man he was.