Story highlights Demolition work is set to begin Sunday, could take a couple of daysSinkhole now believed to be up to 60 feet deepJeff Bush is presumed dead after a sinkhole opened beneath his room"We've done everything we believe that we can," says an officialAuthorities in Florida gave up the search Saturday for a man presumed dead after a sinkhole opened beneath the bedroom of his family's suburban Tampa home, swallowing him up.The effort to recover the body of Jeff Bush had resumed earlier in the day after authorities stopped operations overnight, saying the hole was still expanding and the house could collapse at any time."We just have not been able to locate Mr. Bush and so for that reason the rescue effort is being discontinued," Mike Merrill, county administrator for Hillsborough County, told reporters Saturday evening. "At this point, it's really not possible to recover the body."Merrill said the next phase in the effort would be demolition of the family's home, which is scheduled to begin Sunday and could take a couple of days. He stressed that workers were dealing with a "very unusual sinkhole" -- deep, wide and extremely unstable."We've done everything we believe that we can. We wish we could have done more," Merrill said. The sinkhole was between 50 and 60 feet deep, he said.The terror for the Bush family began Thursday night, as everybody in the blue, one-story, 1970s-era home in Seffner was going to bed.There was a deafening noise.Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way This photo shows a giant sinkhole (C) in a five-lane urban boulevard, eroding soil and exposing underground steel columns supporting commercial buildings in Fukuoka, southwestern Japan, on November 8, 2016. No injuries were reported as the accident occurred in the early morning hours. / AFP / JIJI PRESS / STR / Japan OUT (Photo credit should read STR/AFP/Getty Images) Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – Eight Corvettes fell into a sinkhole that opened up beneath a section of the National Corvette Museum in Bowling Green, Kentucky, on February 12. The sinkhole was about 40 feet wide and 25-30 feet deep. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – An increasing number of sinkholes have appeared in and around the neighborhood where the Lotte World Tower is being built in Seoul, South Korea. The first one was discovered in June and several others have appeared since then, according to local media reports, causing the construction of what would be Seoul's tallest building to come under scrutiny. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – The rear portion of a residential home is consumed by a sinkhole November 14 in Dunedin, Florida. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A 60-foot-wide sinkhole formed underneath the Summer Bay Resort in Clermont, Florida, about 10 minutes from Walt Disney World, on August 11. One resort building collapsed, and another slowly sank. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A backhoe is swallowed by a sinkhole in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, on August 6. The driver of the backhoe was not injured. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A sinkhole killed a guard at a construction site in Shenzhen, China, on March 27. The sinkhole might have been caused by heavy rains and the collapsing of old water pipes running beneath the surface, the Shenzhen Special Zone Daily reported. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – Workers watch the demolition of the house where a sinkhole opened three days before in Seffner, Florida, on March 3. Sinkholes caused by acidic groundwater corroding the limestone or carbonate rock underground are common in Florida, according to the Florida Department of Environmental Protection. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – Buildings fell into a sinkhole near a subway construction site in Guangzhou, China, in January 2013. The hole measured about 1,000 square feet across and 30 feet deep and was without casualties, according to a state media report. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A basketball court in Ortley Beach, New Jersey, fell into a sinkhole caused by Superstorm Sandy in November 2012. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – In July 2011, a man inspects a 40-foot-deep sinkhole that a family found after they heard a booming noise in their kitchen in Guatemala City, Guatemala. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – Construction on a subway line caused a huge sinkhole to form in a road in Beijing in April 2011. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – An aerial photo shows sinkholes created by the drying of the Dead Sea near Israel in 2011. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A utility worker examines the area around a sinkhole caused by a broken water main in Chevy Chase, Maryland, in December 2010. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – Tropical Storm Agatha caused a sinkhole to open in Guatemala City in May 2010. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A fire truck protrudes from a sinkhole as Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa talks to reporters in September 2009. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A water main collapsed an entire block-long part of Ocean Park Boulevard in Santa Monica, California, in December 2002. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – In Orlando, a sinkhole 150 feet wide and 60 feet deep swallowed trees, pipelines and a section of sidewalk near an apartment building in June 2002. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – A 30-foot-deep sinkhole appeared in a busy street in a suburb east of downtown Los Angeles. A motorist drove into the hole but was rescued before a concrete slab fell onto the car. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Photos: When the ground gives way When the ground gives way – "The Great Blue Hole" is the name of a massive underwater sinkhole off the coast of Belize. The deeper you go, the clearer the water becomes, revealing amazing stalactites and limestone. Hide Caption 20 of 20JUST WATCHED Sinkhole victim's brother: I have nothing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sinkhole victim's brother: I have nothing 03:04JUST WATCHED Sinkhole swallows Florida man Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sinkhole swallows Florida man 03:30JUST WATCHED First responder: Everything was sinking Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH First responder: Everything was sinking 00:55"I ran toward my brother's bedroom because I heard my brother scream," Jeremy Bush, Jeff Bush's brother, told CNN's "AC360.""Everything was gone. My brother's bed, my brother's dresser, my brother's TV. My brother was gone."Bush frantically tried to rescue his brother, by standing in the hole and digging at the rubble with a shovel until police arrived and pulled him out, saying the floor was still collapsing."I couldn't get him out. I tried so hard. I tried everything I could," he said through tears. "I could swear I heard him calling out."The terror of those moments can be heard in a recording of the 911 call in the moments after the sinkhole opened up."The house just fell through," a female voice says on the recording released Friday by the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office.The woman asks for an ambulance and the police."The bedroom floor just collapsed, and my brother-in-law is in there. He's underneath the house," she says.Jeremy Bush and four other people, including a 2-year-old child, were uninjured.After officials called off the search for his brother Saturday, Jeremy Bush spoke to Bay News 9"It's very hard. It's not just I lost my brother. They're so many memories in this house," he told the CNN affiliate. "I don't know what we're going to do."Nearby homes were evacuated Friday as a precaution.The sinkhole compromised a house next door to the Bush home, fire department spokesman Ronnie Rivera said. That home wasn't damaged as of Saturday morning, but the family that lives there was given up to 30 minutes to remove some belongings before abandoning the premises, he said.Merrill said residents on either side of the Bush home were allowed to go into their houses a short time to retrieve what they could.Sinkholes are common in the state, according to the Florida Department of Environmental Protection. The state lies on bedrock made of limestone or other carbonate rock that can be eaten away by acidic groundwater, forming voids that collapse when the rock can no longer support the weight of what's above it.Hillsborough County, on Florida's west coast, is part of an area known as "sinkhole alley" that accounts for two-thirds of the sinkhole-related insurance claims in the state, according to a Florida state Senate Insurance and Banking Committee report.