Story highlights "I'm a human being ... I made a mistake," says Robert Zimmerman Jr.He tweets side-by-side images of Trayvon Martin and De'Marquise ElkinsElkins is accused of killing a baby in his stroller in GeorgiaZimmerman says he was trying to make a larger point about the mediaRobert Zimmerman Jr., the brother of the man who shot and killed 17-year-old Trayvon Martin, apologized for his controversial and offensive tweets.Both Elkins and Martin appear to be flipping off the camera."A picture speaks a thousand words. Any questions?" the tweet reads.In another tweet, Zimmerman writes: "Lib media shld ask if what these2 black teens did 2 a woman&baby is the reason ppl think blacks mightB risky."Speaking on CNN's Piers Morgan Live on Wednesday night, he apologized for the messages, saying they weren't the "right thing to do."Photos: Photos: Trayvon Martin evidence Photos: Photos: Trayvon Martin evidence Trayvon Martin evidence – A photo posted online Monday, December 3, shows George Zimmerman with blood on his nose and lips. His attorneys say it was taken the night unarmed teen Trayvon Martin was killed in Sanford, Florida. Zimmerman, 28, faces second-degree murder charges in the death of Martin in Sanford, Florida, on February 26, 2012. Other evidence photos were released earlier this year: Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Photos: Trayvon Martin evidence Trayvon Martin evidence – Zimmerman says he shot Martin in self-defense. Martin's attorneys say he was shot and killed "in cold blood." Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Photos: Trayvon Martin evidence Trayvon Martin evidence – Zimmerman said that before he shot the teenager, he was "assaulted (by Martin) and his head was struck on the pavement," according to a police report. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Photos: Trayvon Martin evidence Trayvon Martin evidence – According to a fire department report, Zimmerman had "abrasions to his forehead," "bleeding/tenderness to his nose" and a "small laceration to the back of his head" when he was treated at the scene. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Photos: Trayvon Martin evidence Trayvon Martin evidence – In a photo released by the Sanford Police Department, Zimmerman's hands appear to be unmarked. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Photos: Trayvon Martin evidence Trayvon Martin evidence – Prosecutors allege Zimmerman unjustly killed Martin, an unarmed teenager, after profiling him. Zimmerman has pleaded not guilty and claims self-defense. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Photos: Trayvon Martin evidence Trayvon Martin evidence – Zimmerman's gun is displayed. The shooting raised questions about gun laws, as well as the merit of the "stand your ground" law in Florida and similar laws in other states. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Photos: Trayvon Martin evidence Trayvon Martin evidence – Crime scene photos released by the Sanford Police Department show Trayvon Martin's cell phone at the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Photos: Trayvon Martin evidence Trayvon Martin evidence – Evidence marker 2 shows a plastic sack found at the crime scene. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Photos: Trayvon Martin evidence Trayvon Martin evidence – A can of Arizona iced tea was found on the ground at the Martin crime scene. Hide Caption 10 of 10Photos: Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing Photos: Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing – Memorials to Trayvon Martin grow daily outside The Retreat at Twin Lakes, the gated Sanford, Florida, community where neighborhood watchman George Zimmerman shot and killed the unarmed teen February 26. The death has sparked protests across the country and brought unwanted attention to Sanford, a town north of Orlando. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing – Sanford's main roads are dotted with mini strip malls in between patches of what remains of central Florida's agricultural history. Views about the Martin case depend on which streets you stand on in Sanford. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing – "I don't see Sanford as being a prejudiced town by any means," said Michelle Simoneaux, left, manager of downtown's Colonial Room Restaurant and Fountain. "This could happen anywhere, but it doesn't happen every day. " Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing – A neighborhood watch sign marks the gated community where Martin died. Zimmerman has said he killed the teen in self-defense, police said. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing – Members of the Goldsboro community play a game under an oak tree. Goldsboro was one of Florida's earliest towns incorporated by African-Americans before Sanford absorbed it and took over in 1911. Residents speak of frequent police patrols in the area and other cases similar to Martin's. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing – A protest sign painted on the window of a car at a housing project calls for Zimmerman's arrest. For some, the Martin case has become a rallying cry, a chance to air what they believe are years of grievances. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing – The Martin killing has been the subject of intense coverage in local newspapers as well as the national media. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing – Longtime resident Myranette Boynton, 58, says she thinks the attention to Sanford will make a difference. "This occasion has happened too many times, and enough is enough," Boynton says from the banks of Lake Monroe. "Trayvon is not the only one, but Trayvon should be the last one." Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing – A handwritten card lies among the memorial gifts outside the neighborhood where the high schooler died. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing – A woman strolls through the downtown area. Many residents say they wonder whether Sanford will forever be known as the place where an unarmed black teen was killed while heading home from the store. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing Stigma for town in Trayvon Martin killing – Signs about the shooting have been posted throughout the Florida city, and the message is clear: People want answers. Hide Caption 11 of 11"I realize those were controversial and offensive and I did publicly apologize for them," he said. "I'm a human being. I'm being upfront about what I did. I made a mistake ... Unfortunately (it) may not have helped George."His brother, George Zimmerman, has been charged with second-degree murder. Zimmerman acknowledged shooting Martin but said it was in self-defense. Attorneys for Martin's family have accused Zimmerman of racially profiling Martin and shooting him "in cold blood."Robert Zimmerman Jr. said he was trying to make a larger point in his tweets about the "media and their honesty in portraying the person who encountered my brother February 26, 2012."We've been led to believe that it's a junior-high-school-aged person because of the pictures," he said, referring to Martin."The analogy is these are two people who chose to represent themselves in this way. One was accused of killing a baby, and whatever's in his social media makes the rounds immediately ... However, the other person who almost killed my brother had he disarmed him -- my brother had every indication to believe he would have killed him -- his social media is off limits."Zimmerman's tweets prompted a response from his brother's defense team.Attorney Mark O'Mara told CNN's "Starting Point" Thursday morning that Robert Zimmerman doesn't represent his brother or his defense."Having said that, I'm not sure where (Robert's) heart was, but I've always said for the past year that we have to have a conversation about race, and the Zimmerman case has brought it to the forefront, particularly the way young black males are treated in the system," O'Mara said. "These type of tweets ... were insensitive to that, and quite honestly are the opposite of what I hope the conversation would be to try and figure out what's wrong with the system and maybe a good way to fix it."O'Mara said he worries about how Robert Zimmerman's tweets will affect George's case."Everything that happens in this case is, if not overblown, hyper-focused upon, so that everything that George says or does is important," O'Mara said "... And certainly when a family member of my client says something that comes across as totally insensitive -- if not much, much worse -- (it) has an effect, and now we have to deal with it."