Story highlights "Winning takes care of everything," Nike says on its ad for Tiger WoodsThe slogan is unveiled as Wood is ranked No. 1 in the world, the first time since 2010Some are outraged by the slogan in Woods' case but others laud itHas Woods been redeemed as solely a golfer -- or a human being, too?As prodigal golfer Tiger Woods resumes the world's No. 1 ranking , his chief sponsor, Nike, unveiled a slogan Tuesday that provokes robust debate on what is redemption and has Woods attained it."Winning takes care of everything" is what Nike declared on its social media outlets after Woods completed his long climb back to the top ranking, more than three years after his extramarital affairs ruined his marriage and embarrassed him. Woods and ex-wife, Elin Nordegren, have two children.Many fans and consumers are now raging against the new campaign by Nike, which stood by Woods in his fall from grace as most other sponsors dumped him."Will not buy anything Nike again," wrote Melissa Santa-Cruz of Wisconsin on Nike's Facebook page."THIS AD MAKES ME SICK!" wrote Julie Drake, a high school teacher who said she will use the ad for a classroom discussion. "Shame on you!"JUST WATCHED Tiger, Palmer, Trevino fight thieves Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tiger, Palmer, Trevino fight thieves 00:30JUST WATCHED Tiger on a tear at Palmer Invitational Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tiger on a tear at Palmer Invitational 01:46Photos: Photos: Sports redemptions Photos: Photos: Sports redemptions Sports redemptions – The same year golfer Woods lost his title as world's top golfer in 2010, sex scandals broke up his marriage to Elin Nordegren and many sponsors dropped him. Woods has since gotten new high-profile sponsors and regained his title as the No. 1 golfer. Here's a look at other athletic redemptions: Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Photos: Sports redemptions Sports redemptions – A 19-year-old woman accused Los Angeles Laker Kobe Bryant of rape in 2003, but Bryant said the sex was consensual. The case was dropped after his accuser refused to testify, and a civil suit was later settled out of court. Not only is Bryant still married to Vanessa Bryant, but he also led the Lakers to two consecutive NBA titles in 2009 and 2010 and won gold on the U.S. team at the 2008 and 2012 Summer Olympics. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Photos: Sports redemptions Sports redemptions – Muhammad Ali won the world heavyweight championship in 1964 over Sonny Liston. In 1967, after claiming conscientious objector status to military induction during the Vietnam War, Ali was found guilty of refusing induction into the U.S. armed forces. His passport is revoked and the boxing association strips him of his title and effectively bans him from competition for more than three years. Ali returns to the ring in 1970 and four years later reclaims the heavyweight title belt with a victory over George Foreman in the "Rumble in the Jungle" in Zaire. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Photos: Sports redemptions Sports redemptions – Andre Agassi won the Australian Open in 1995 and the gold medal at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. But in his autobiography, he admits to be introduced to crystal meth in 1997. "I can't speak to addiction, but a lot of people would say that if you're using anything as an escape, you have a problem," he was quoted as saying about the drug use. But Agassi turned things around by 1999, winning both the French Open and U.S. Open that year. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Photos: Sports redemptions Sports redemptions – Quarterback Michael Vick was convicted of dog fighting charges in 2007, forcing him to declare bankruptcy. The Atlanta Falcons also dropped him. After serving 20 months of a federal prison sentence, Vick joined the Philadelphia Eagles in 2009 and became the starting quarterback in 2010. Vick also became an activist against animal fighting, backing a bill in 2011 that would criminalize spectators and others who organize the fighting. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Photos: Sports redemptions Sports redemptions – Jockey Lester Piggott won the Epsom Derby, England's richest horse race, nine times between 1954 and 1983. In 1987, he was sentenced to three years in prison on tax fraud charges. Piggott came back to win the Breeders' Cup Mile in the United States in 1990. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Photos: Sports redemptions Sports redemptions – Jennifer Capriati won her first professional tennis match at age 13 in March 1990 and her first tournament title in Puerto Rico later that year. She then won gold at the 1992 Olympics in Barcelona, Spain. But a year later she had been arrested for shoplifting and marijuana possession. Capriati completed a stunning comeback in 2001, winning back-to-back Grand Slam titles in the Australian and French opens. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Photos: Sports redemptions Sports redemptions – Italian striker Paolo Rossi was banned from soccer for three years after being found to be involved in a match-fixing scandal while playing for Perugia in 1980. He protested his innocence and his ban was reduced to a year, enabling him to come back to the game for the 1982 World Cup. Rossi scored six goals to become the tournament's top scorer and lead Italy to the world title. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Photos: Sports redemptions Sports redemptions – Signed by the Tampa Bay Rays as the top pick in the 1999 baseball draft, Josh Hamilton was touted as a future superstar. But only a few years later, Hamilton's life was consumed by drug and alcohol abuse and after trying to clean himself up, he was a janitor and groundskeeper at a Florida athletic complex in 2006. Hamilton got another shot at the major leagues and made the most it. In 2010, he was named the American League's Most Valuable Player as a member of the Texas Rangers. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Photos: Sports redemptions Sports redemptions – The SMU football team earned the moniker "The Pony Express" for their wins on the field in the 1980s, but their success came to a halt after it came to light that the players received $61,000 from boosters in 1985 and '86. SMU football was the first school to be given the NCAA's "death penalty" and did not field a team for the 1987 season. The team struggled to rebuild until the past few years, and won back-to-back bowl games in the last two seasons. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Photos: Sports redemptions Sports redemptions – Eric Cantona, a Manchester United soccer star, was the English Professional Footballers' Association Player of the Year in 1994. In 1995, he hit an heckling fan with a "kung fu" style kick, receiving 120 hours of community service and a year's ban from the pitch. After returning from the ban, he led Man United to the league title. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Photos: Sports redemptions Photos: Sports redemptions – In 1992, Mike Tyson was charged and convicted for rape. After his release in 1995, Tyson resumed boxing and quickly regained two of his championship belts. Since then, Tyson has become a pop culture figure and in 2011 was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame. Pictured here, Tyson reacts after being disqualified for biting Evander Holyfield's ear on June 28, 1997. Hide Caption 12 of 12Others, however, endorsed the slogan."Love your Ad Nike," wrote Brian Edwards. "Keep up the good work."The passionate opinions roil during a week when redemption is on the minds of Jews celebrating Passover and Christians preparing for Easter.The controversy grows from whether winning indeed absolves transgressions -- and even prompts a return to grace. The narrative plays out in different ways for different public figures."I think that winning, especially in Tiger Woods' case, really does change things because it reminds people why they fell in love with him years ago. It was for his game and his ability to consistently make those tough shots over and over again. That's why we're in awe of Tiger," said CEO Melinda Travis of PRO Sports Communications, a strategic communications and crisis management firm in Los Angeles."Does it erase what he's done? No. But when is it enough?" Travis said. "It's easy to criticize from afar, but when you sit across from someone who's experienced public humiliation and a fall from grace and, in Tiger's case, a breakup of an entire family and a permanent change in the way people view him, that's a pretty high price to pay."The slogan refers to how Woods has motivated himself to become the top golfer again, Nike said. He last held that rank in October 2010."Tiger has always said he competes to win," Nike said in a statement. "When asked about his goals such as getting back to number one, he has said consistently winning is the way to get there. The statement references that sentiment and is a salute to his athletic performance."In professional sports, winning can indeed overshadow a lot of quandaries, said sports analyst LZ Granderson, a CNN contributor.For example, a winning coach won't be fired for players accused of sexual assault or facing too many DUIs, he said."Usually a coach is fired because they're not winning," Granderson said. "So it may make me cringe as a parent, I can't help but think of the fact that winning does seem to solve a lot of problems, and if you're losing, that's when everything else is more highlighted."Analysts also cite how quarterback Michael Vick, who served an 18-month federal prison sentence after pleading guilty to dogfighting, is now playing for the Philadelphia Eagles. Linebacker Ray Lewis faced murder accusations -- later dropped by prosecutors -- in the deaths of two men after the 2000 Super Bowl in Atlanta; this year, Lewis and his teammates on the Baltimore Ravens won the Super Bowl."A lot of people have short memories when the person who had these issues starts winning," said Robert Tuchman, president of Goviva, a sports and entertainment marketing firm. "As you can see with Ray Lewis, it doesn't take much to forgive and forget. America loves the story of a person falling down and getting back up and then maybe falling down and getting back up again."Ethics expert Bruce Weinstein pointed out that Nike contradicts itself because it stopped sponsoring cyclist Lance Armstrong after he admitted to doping in winning seven Tour de France titles."This is an amazing story in the worst sense," said Weinstein. "This is a company that dropped Lance Armstrong after mounting evidence made it pretty clear Lance Armstrong won by cheating. So Nike made it clear that winning does not take of everything."In fact, Travis' firm is representing Tyler Hamilton, a cycling teammate of Armstrong. Hamilton was among those who broke from Armstrong, who then threatened to sue him. Hamilton also wrote about his own use of performance enhancing drugs.Travis declined to comment on Armstrong and Hamilton, but she spoke generally about how she helps athletes overcome setbacks."Look, everybody makes mistakes and sometimes they just need help in putting it in context for people: Here's what led me to the decision. And then let people judge it," she said.At issue for Woods is whether he, like so many other celebrities whose professional lives are damaged by the revelation of personal failures, has redeemed himself as merely a public figure -- or as a human being, too?"Certainly in his job, it's a redemption story," said David W. Miller, a Princeton University business ethics professor who directs its Faith & Work Initiative."Whether it is for him as a human being and his character, I don't know. Time will tell. Someone else will be the judge of that," he added.Miller cited how winning didn't take care of everything for basketball star Kobe Bryant, who faced accusations of sexually assaulting a woman in Colorado in 2003 and later settled a federal civil lawsuit for an unspecified amount of monetary damages."You have an overly long list of people who are 'winning' -- whether they are in sports or a box office draw or selling platinum albums," Miller said. "The world tells them they're wonderful and they're No. 1 and their sense of probity and respect for others or your own self tends to evaporate."That's when a lot can go wrong, Miller said."I applaud Nike for taking up his rebirth," Miller said about Woods.But, he continued, "the slogan sort of falls on its face, and Tiger Woods is exhibit A for the case because it didn't care of everything three years ago."