Story highlights Police say they're looking for a male suspect in connection with the crashA baby rescued from his dead mother's womb after the crash has died, police sayThe baby was delivered by C-section after his parents were killed in a car crashHis parents had been on the way to the hospital at the time of the crashNew York police are searching for a male suspect in connection with a hit-and-run crash that killed two expectant parents and caused the death of their newborn boy.Police identified the man as Julio Acevedo, 44, and released a photo of him on Monday. It was not immediately clear how police believe the suspect was connected with the crash.Acevedo has a prior criminal record, New York police said.The New York Police department is seeking Julio Acevedo in connection with the hit and run accident in Brooklyn.The police statement comes a day after a car crash that killed Nathan and Raizy Glauber and devastated a close-knit, ultra-Orthodox Jewish community in Brooklyn, New York.Their baby boy was delivered by cesarean section from his dead mother's womb. He survived for a day before succumbing to his injuries on Monday, police said.At the time of the crash, the Glaubers -- both 21 -- were on the way to Long Island College Hospital, said Officer Sophia Tassy-Mason, a spokeswoman for the New York City Police Department."She just wasn't feeling well and they just, they went to check it out," said Sarah Gluck, Raizy Glauber's cousin.Police say a BMW slammed into the Glaubers' cab at an intersection. The two occupants of the BMW fled on foot.JUST WATCHED Crash kills parents on way to hospital Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Crash kills parents on way to hospital 01:40Photos: Funeral procession after hit and run Photos: Funeral procession after hit and run Funeral procession after hit and run – Members of the Brooklyn Orthodox Jewish community attend a news conference Monday, March 4, after an Orthodox couple died in a hit-and run-crash on Sunday. The day after the crash killed them, it claimed another life: their newborn son. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Funeral procession after hit and run Funeral procession after hit and run – The crash brought heartache to a close-knit Hasidic community in Brooklyn, many of whom mourned the couple's deaths at a funeral service on Sunday, March 3. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Funeral procession after hit and run Funeral procession after hit and run – Men carry the coffins of the young couple through the streets of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, on Sunday. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Funeral procession after hit and run Funeral procession after hit and run – Mourners attend the funeral for Raizel Glauber and her husband, Nathan Glauber, in Brooklyn, on Sunday. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Funeral procession after hit and run Funeral procession after hit and run – A woman cries during the funeral. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Funeral procession after hit and run Funeral procession after hit and run – Members of the Brooklyn Orthodox Jewish community attend a news conference on Monday, March 4. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Funeral procession after hit and run Funeral procession after hit and run – Two members of the Brooklyn Orthodox Jewish community talk before the news conference on Monday. Hide Caption 7 of 7Authorities arrested the registered owner of the BMW on Monday. Takia Walker was arrested on insurance fraud charges, Browne said.The deadly crash brought heartache to the Glaubers' Hasidic community in Brooklyn, many of whom mourned the couple's deaths at a funeral service on Sunday."What can we do now?" Isaac Abraham, a community leader and neighbor of the couple, said on Monday. "We are looking at the prosecutor; we want the people responsible charged with triple homicide, nothing less."The young Orthodox Jewish couple were "preparing for the most joyous moment in life, to become parents, ready to build a castle to the future and build a family," he told CNN affliate WABC"The message to the driver: We know law enforcement is going to get to you," he said. "But our message is give yourself up before we find you."The driver of the cab, a Toyota Camry, was taken to the hospital and later released."The only thing I can remember is when somebody was on the side of me, on the passenger side, telling me, 'Don't worry. Don't worry. The ambulance is on the way,'" driver Pedro Nuñez Delacruz told CNN affiliate WABC . "I feel very lucky, you know, that I'm still alive."Delacruz said he didn't find out what happened to the Glaubers until he got into the ambulance."I feel very sorry for that beautiful family," he said.Motor vehicle crashes are among the leading causes of death in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.In the first nine months of 2012, more than 25,500 people died in motor vehicle traffic crashes, according to the U.S. Department of Transportation. That number showed a 7% increase over the number of deaths in the same period in 2011, officials said.