Story highlights Mayor Michael Bloomberg has made public health a top priority for New YorkHe has touted many controversial health measures since becoming mayor in 2002Critics denounce it as too much government; supporters say the initiatives have workedThis month, a large sugary drink ban was set to take effect until a judge struck it downNew York City's billionaire Mayor Michael Bloomberg can get pretty much whatever he wants, whenever he wants. Yet the item at the top of his wish list doesn't usually carry a price tag."In some ways, there's nothing more significant you can do for New Yorkers than making their lives better by giving them more life," explained Deputy Mayor Linda Gibbs.Since taking office in 2002, Bloomberg has unleashed a tsunami of public health initiatives intended to do just that -- cutting sodium in prepared meals, ordering that menus in chain restaurants carry calorie counts, posting restaurants' health department grades, as well as limiting the use of tobacco products.His first acts included a ban on smoking in restaurants and workplaces. In 2011, the restriction was extended to public parks and beaches.The restrictions spurred a backlash of criticism."I got a lot of one-fingered waves -- as I would describe them -- when I marched by bars on St. Patrick's Day, for example," he told CNN's Jake Tapper last weekNow, Bloomberg said, attitudes have changed."Today, you march by a bar on St. Patrick's Day and everybody seems to love you," he said.In fact, the policies have worked and have been widely copied, according to Dr. Susan Kansagra, an assistant commissioner at the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene.Since Bloomberg took office, she said, the city's smoking rate has dropped from 22% to just above 14%, "one of the fastest declines in the country."Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Michael Bloomberg moved into politics after gaining wealth and clout through Bloomberg LP, the world's leading financial news and information company. As mayor of New York, he led the city through tight budgets during the recession and pushed for controversial health policies, including banning large sodas. Bloomberg was a Republican candidate when he won the mayoral races in 2001 and 2005, but he switched to independent for his third term. Hide Caption 1 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg, second from right, rides to City Hall on the R train in March 2002 after New York transit workers authorized union leaders to call a strike. Bloomberg, dealing with a $1 billion budget shortfall, had refused union demands for a 24% wage increase over three years. The strike was called off in December 2002 after transit workers and their management worked out a deal. Hide Caption 2 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg is sworn in by New York Judge Judith S. Kaye as Bloomberg's mother, Charlotte Bloomberg, holds the Bible on the steps of City Hall in January 2002. Hide Caption 3 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg attends a New York Yankees pep rally at City Hall in October 2003. Hide Caption 4 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Yankees owner George Steinbrenner shares a laugh with Bloomberg during a news conference in June 2005 announcing plans for a new $800 million stadium. Hide Caption 5 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg sits in a Ford Escape hybrid taxicab donated by Yahoo after he announced in May 2007 that the city's taxi fleet would be fully hybrid by 2012. The plan fell through after judges ruled in 2008 that the city couldn't penalize taxi drivers who didn't use hybrid cars, according to The New York Times Hide Caption 6 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg holds a news conference on gun control in July 2007 on Capitol Hill in Washington, where he traveled to lobby against the Tiahrt Amendments, measures that regulate access to gun-tracing data. Hide Caption 7 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and Bloomberg take questions at a news conference announcing their charitable support for a new global anti-smoking initiative in July 2008. Gates and Bloomberg announced their combined contribution of half a billion dollars to combat global smoking. See more on Bloomberg's controversial health bans Hide Caption 8 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg joins volunteers to bag apples for poor families as part of a Mandela Day event in July 2009. Mandela Day is a celebration of Nelson Mandela's life and legacy. It encourages good works and volunteerism around the world. Hide Caption 9 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg celebrates winning a third term as mayor in November 2009. Hide Caption 10 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg inspects the large cavern being constructed for the 34th Street subway station on February 2010. The new station is part of a $2.1 billion expansion project, the first subway expansion in Manhattan for decades. Hide Caption 11 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg marches in the 249th annual St. Patrick's Day Parade in March 2010. Hide Caption 12 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – British Prime Minister David Cameron eats a hot dog with Bloomberg outside New York's Penn Station on July 21, 2010. Cameron met with Bloomberg and U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon during his visit to New York. Hide Caption 13 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg announces the formation of the "Second Chance on Shoot First" campaign at the National Press Club in April 2012 in Washington. After the Trayvon Martin shooting in Florida, Bloomberg was joined by leaders from the NAACP, the National Urban League and other organizations to launch the effort to reform and repeal "stand your ground" gun laws. Hide Caption 14 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg and New York Police Commissioner Ray Kelly look at the New York Memorial Wall during an unveiling in October 2012. The city added the names of 15 officers who died the previous year. Hide Caption 15 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – In October 2012, Bloomberg views damage in the Breezy Point area of Queens, where a fire destroyed about 80 homes as a result of Hurricane Sandy. Sandy killed at least 113 people in the United States and heavily damaged New York's infrastructure. Hide Caption 16 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg kicks with the Rockettes in Times Square on New Year's Eve 2013. Hide Caption 17 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – From left, Bloomberg, New York Sen. Charles Schumer and Ben Fried, chief information officer for Google, cut Ethernet cables at a news event where it was announced that free Wi-Fi would be provided to the Manhattan neighborhood of Chelsea in January 2013. Hide Caption 18 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg and Schumer shop in the newly reopened Fairway Market on the waterfront in Red Hook in March 2013. Fairway closed after severe flooding during Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 19 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg holds a large cup as he speaks to the media about the health impacts of sugar in March 2013. Hide Caption 20 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – London Mayor Boris Johnson talks with Bloomberg on the balcony of London's City Hall after launching the Mayors Challenge in Europe. The Mayors Challenge is a competition, with prize money coming from Bloomberg's philanthropic foundation, that challenges cities to find innovative and creative ideas to solve problems faced by urban living. Hide Caption 21 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – In October, on the one-year anniversary of Hurricane Sandy, Bloomberg, center, stands on a rig installing a new sea wall in the Rockaways. Hide Caption 22 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg shakes hands with Larry Silverstein, the developer who held the lease to the World Trade Center buildings in 2001, after cutting the ribbon at the opening ceremony of Four World Trade Center. It's the first tower to open at the original site of the World Trade Center. Hide Caption 23 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Talk show host Jimmy Fallon welcomes Bloomberg to join him in writing thank-you notes in December. Hide Caption 24 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg speaks to the Economic Club of New York in December in his last major speech as mayor. Hide Caption 25 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg walks through the crowd outside City Hall as he leaves for the last time as mayor. Hide Caption 26 of 27 Photos: Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg – Bloomberg, right, participates in a "Toward Universal Health Coverage for 2030" seminar in April during the IMF/World Bank's Spring Meetings in Washington. Hide Caption 27 of 27JUST WATCHED Bloomberg: Tobacco targets teens, poor Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bloomberg: Tobacco targets teens, poor 02:48JUST WATCHED Bloomberg: Stores should hide cigarettes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bloomberg: Stores should hide cigarettes 03:45That drop would be hailed as a major success by any other politician, but Bloomberg is not easily satisfied. So this week, he unveiled the Tobacco Product Display Restriction Bill , which would force retailers to keep tobacco products out of sight of customers -- particularly young ones."What we're trying to do is just deglamorize, don't remind them, don't make it look like it's a normal product," Bloomberg said. "Cigarettes are not a normal product."Its passage would be unprecedented, Bloomberg said.That proposal too has stirred opposition. "The notion of forcing licensed, tax-collecting, law-abiding retailers to hide their tobacco inventory is patently absurd," said Jim Calvin, president of the New York Association of Convenience Stores."This proposal arises from a wild theory that the mere sight of packs of cigarettes on a wall behind the store counter compels kids to start smoking," Calvin continuted.A spokesman for the parent company of Philip Morris USA, whose cigarette brands include Marlboro, said the manufacturer opposes the measure because "we believe it goes too far."Bloomberg's eat-your-vegetables approach to public health has triggered cries that the 71-year-old media mogul, politician and philanthropist has turned the city that never sleeps into a nanny state, one where finger-wagging admonitions about what to eat and drink and how to live have become annoyingly intrusive.But he is undeterred.This month, Bloomberg's attempt to limit the size of soda cups to 16 ounces was rejected by a state Supreme Court judge as "arbitrary and capricious."Not surprisingly, Bloomberg is appealing the ruling.Risk and rewardThe mayor embraces risk and, though he doesn't particularly revel in failure, he is not afraid of it, said Gibbs.She recalled his telling a story of having spent a day skiing. Afterward, a skier remarked proudly that he had not fallen once. Bloomberg was unimpressed. "He said, 'That means you didn't try hard enough,'" Gibbs said. "If you succeeded at everything, you left opportunities on the table."Bloomberg himself has left few opportunities on the table. After graduating from Johns Hopkins University with a degree in engineering, he got an MBA from Harvard Business School and then, in 1966 at the age of 24, he moved to New York for a job with Salomon Brothers, an investment bank.He rose quickly, eventually overseeing the firm's information systems.In 1981, squeezed out of the bank in a merger, he started Bloomberg LP, the financial news and information company used by Wall Street's trading firms. It has made him rich.Since then, he has donated more than $2.4 billion to a variety of causes and organizations. About half of that -- more than $1.1 billion -- has gone to Hopkins, which named its school of public health after him"He's driven by the metric of how do we make the most impact in terms of improving health and saving lives," said Dr. Michael J. Klag, dean of the Bloomberg School of Public Health. "Mike is a data-driven guy, he's a numbers guy."Klag credits the businessman's investments in public health with paying big dividends."New York is now the healthiest city in America because of what he's done," Klag said.It's also one of the safest, with the lowest murder rate of any big city in America. And traffic deaths and fire deaths are the lowest since the city started keeping records in 1916."Parents from around the country used to dissuade their kids from moving to New York because it was dangerous," Bloomberg said last week. "That doesn't happen any more. Parents want their kids to move here because they're probably safer than where they're coming from."Putting a dent in obesityBloomberg's focus on food is recent and the data to support it are not as strong."With tobacco, we have a pretty established set of policies we know are effective, but with obesity, it's still new," New York City Health Commissioner Dr. Thomas A. Farley told an audience at Fordham University in New York during a conference last fall on Bloomberg's public health legacy.JUST WATCHED Bloomberg targets cigarettes in NYC Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bloomberg targets cigarettes in NYC 02:17JUST WATCHED Palin: Bloomberg not here, Big Gulp safe Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Palin: Bloomberg not here, Big Gulp safe 01:21JUST WATCHED NYC's controversial move to curb obesity Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NYC's controversial move to curb obesity 03:45But talking about legacy is "a little presumptuous," according to Peter Zimroth, a lawyer with Arnold & Porter, which has represented the restaurant industry."The legacy is yet to be written on some of these initiatives," he told the conference, adding that the evidence that such efforts would reduce obesity was itself thin and could wind up being counterproductive. "There's a limited amount of capital, I think, that government has to engage in coercive measures," he said.Bloomberg sees restrictions on food as a critical component to his public health mission, according to Klag. "He sees this avalanche of diabetes coming," he said. "That's why he attacks the sugar intake."In reaching for opportunities, Bloomberg has lost his footing several times. In addition to losing his effort to ban large, sugary drinks, he failed in his bids to get a soda tax adopted and to ban the use of food stamps to buy soda.The so-called soda ban provoked ridicule from some observers. "I think this is what makes liberals look like elitist bullies who think they know everything and can tell people what to do," Bill Maher said on his HBO show "Real Time." "You shouldn't have to clear what you eat with the municipal government."A executive with the National Restaurant Association -- which represents 500,000 restaurant businesses across the country -- called the city's efforts at change "heavy-handed" and was effervescent over Bloomberg's most recent loss."We very much questioned the efficacy of putting a dent in obesity by restricting the cup size in restaurants in New York City that sold sugar-sweetened beverages," said Scott DeFife, the association's executive vice president for policy and governmental affairs. "We don't think that micromanaging food service packaging is the way to end obesity in New York City.""It simply is not the role of the government to micro-regulate citizens' dietary decisions," Gov. Phil Bryant wrote.But Bloomberg lashed back."'Saturday Night Live' couldn't write this stuff," he said about Mississippi's move. "We have a worldwide, nationwide problem on obesity. This year, more people will die from overeating than from starvation -- first time in the history of the world.""How can somebody try to pass a law that deliberately says we can't improve the lives of our citizens?" he asked. "It's farce."Looking aheadWhile his critics might accuse him of simply trying to expand his political power through his health initiatives, Bloomberg's colleagues say that's not the case.Bloomberg's focus is simple and singular, explained his former colleague Dr. Tom Frieden, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention."Any time I came to him for a decision, he only asked one question: Was I certain that this would save lives?" said Frieden, who served as commissioner of the New York City Health Department from 2002-2009. "When it comes to failure - if he works on something for six months and it fails, the next day it's as if it didn't happen. He is always looking ahead."Meanwhile, Bloomberg appears to be meeting his goal of adding length to the lives of New Yorkers.A New Yorker born today is likely to live three years longer than a New Yorker born a decade ago, a year after he took office. "That's a huge surge, and it puts us a little more than two-and-a-half years ahead of the national life expectancy," Deputy Mayor Gibbs said.Gibbs predicted that Bloomberg will remain focused on public health, even after he leaves office at the end of the year."He's very clear that that will, in fact, be a large part of the work that he does," she said.