Story highlights Debris apparently from 2011 Japan tsunami is washing ashore in HawaiiHawaii Wildlife Fund organizes beach cleanupsNOAA has been studying the effects of debris on fishYour first view of Kamilo Beach on Hawaii's Big Island is of majestic rock, postcard-worthy waves and miles of uninhabited beach. But look closer at the sand and you see specks of blue, yellow and white plastic.A piece of a bottle cap. A corner of a milk crate. Half a toothbrush.Kamilo Beach is part of the devastating legacy of the March 2011 Japan tsunami."It's disheartening to come out here and see all this marine debris in an area that's otherwise so remote, debris that's washing up from other countries," said Megan Lamson, debris project coordinator for the Hawaii Wildlife FundHawaii is in a unique geographical spot, the center of the Pacific Ocean, to witness the impact of the Japan tsunami. Debris swirls from Asia to the continental United States through Hawaii. The islands are, in effect, a comb of the Pacific.Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – A police officer searches for remains in a wrecked vehicle at a beach in Namie, Japan, near the stricken Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant, on Monday, March 11, the second anniversary of the tsunami. Two years ago, a magnitude-9.0 earthquake unleashed a wall of water that killed nearly 16,000 people in northeast Japan and sparked the world's worst nuclear crisis in 25 years. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Police officers offer chrysanthemum flowers for tsunami victims in Namie on Monday after their search for remains of those still missing, two years after the disaster. Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Police officers search for remains on the coast in Namie on Monday. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – A Buddhist monk prays for tsunami victims at Arahama district in Sendai, Japan, on Monday. Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – People visit a memorial altar at the Okawa elementary school where at least 70 students died in the 2011 tsunami, in Ishinomaki, Japan, on Monday. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Vehicles that were abandoned two years ago sit in a field of reeds in Namie on Monday. Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Children pray during a memorial ceremony to mark the second anniversary of the disaster in Kamaishi, Japan, on Monday. Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Collapsed houses still line on a street in Namie on Monday. Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Buddhist monks pray at the tsunami-devastated Disaster Prevention Center in Minamisanriku, Japan, on Monday. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – A man mourns on Monday in front of a ship brought ashore by the 2011 tsunami in Kesennuma, Japan. Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Volunteers clean pictures found in debris from the earthquake and tsunami disasters at the Tsukidate elementary school in Kesennuma, Japan, on Sunday, March 10. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Children in Minamisoma, Japan, float balloons while paying respects on Sunday, March 10, a day before the second anniversary of the disaster. Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Japanese police officers dig through rubble in Miyagi Prefecture on Sunday. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Sun shines through the window of an area on Sunday that was devastated two years ago in Rikuzentakata, Iwate Prefecture. Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – A laundry shop remains deserted about 20 kilometers (12 miles) from the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear facility on Sunday. The earthquake knocked the power plant offline, resulting in a meltdown of three reactors. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Japanese Buddhist monks chant and pay their respects to the victims on Sunday in Minamisoma. Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – A devastated area stands still Sunday in Odaka, a hard-hit city within the former exclusion zone set up after the Fukushima Daiichi facility had released radiation. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – An abandoned house is filled with rubbish in Odaka on Sunday. Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Students and volunteers light candles at Yuriage Junior High School during a commemoration ceremony on Sunday in Natori, Japan. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – A boy takes part in an anti-nuclear march in Tokyo on Sunday. The radiation crisis that stemmed from the earthquake and tsunami shattered public trust in nuclear power. Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Visitors walk in front of a replica of the "miracle" pine tree on Sunday in Rikuzentakata. It was the last surviving pine in what was once a sprawling grove of more than 70,000, standing as a symbol of hope amid the devastation. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – A cemetery in Odaka has low visibility in heavy wind on Sunday. The city became a nuclear ghost town after the 2011 disaster. Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Photos: Japan quake, tsunami anniversary Two years after Japan earthquake, tsunami – Men sit on a bench in front of a temporary housing shelter on Thursday, March 7, in Motomiya, Fukushima Prefecture. Thousands were displaced in the aftermath of the earthquake. Hide Caption 23 of 23JUST WATCHED 2012: Japan's endless cleanup battle Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2012: Japan's endless cleanup battle 02:27The nonprofit Hawaii Wildlife Fund said marine debris has been a problem for years for the island state and tsunami debris has made things worse. According to Japan, 1.5 million tons of tsunami debris floated away. The wildlife fund organizes beach cleanups along Hawaii's shorelines and struggles to keep up with the marine debris, made up primarily of plastic.Lamson pulled out part of a beer crate that read "Exclusively for Kirin Beer" in Japanese. She also found a Suntory Whisky bottle stamped "Japan." Lamson also found a small vitamin drink container with Japanese text. Since fall, the wildlife fund and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration have found refrigerators, freezers, buoys and even an intact fishing boat, all with Japanese text.But most disturbing to Lamson are a couple of soft plastic bottles with bite marks. "Marine life in the ocean are mistaking plastic for their natural food," Lamson said.Lamson may suspect it, but Lesley Jantz, a NOAA fishery biologist with the observer program, can confirm it. Jantz has been studying the impact of marine debris in fish.In her lab, Jantz sliced open the stomach of a lancetfish for CNN. You may never have heard of the lancetfish, a sometimes 4- to 6-foot long fish with enormous teeth. But bigeye and yellow fin tuna eat lancetfish. Tuna ends up on our plates.Jantz pulled out a 12 by 12 piece of indigestible black plastic. "It would be difficult to pass through the system," said Jantz. "I've found several fish with the same black plastic bag, just like this, even larger. If it gets to a certain size, the fish is going to feel like it's full."Jantz conducted a study that included 64 fish of varying species. Twelve percent of them, she said, contained plastic. When she looked just at lancetfish, 45% had plastic. "One concern that we have and don't know is if any chemicals from the plastic are absorbed into the tissue of the fish, which is a problem if consumed by a fish that we consume. That's definitely the next step, what is the impact?"Across the island in David Hyrenbach's lab, the impact of plastic debris is apparent among the animal species he studies: birds. Hyrenbach cut open the bellies of some albatross for CNN. Plastic pieces spilled out of the belly of a 2-month-old albatross. Eighty percent of the stomach was packed with plastic.Hyrenbach, an assistant professor of oceanography at Hawaii Pacific University, pulled out a small bottle top. "Toothpaste top?" he said. "No, cap of a medicine tube." He reached into the stomach again. "Oh, it's a brush, you see?" There were the unmistakable bristles of a hairbrush."Morally, this is terrible. How is this possible? Majestic, far ranging, beautiful birds, in a pristine place of the pacific, the northwest Hawaiian islands, you open them up and this is what you find," said Hyrenbach.He grabbed a box, packed with toy soldiers, lighters and brushes. He explained that he pulled all the items out of albatross from Hawaii. "Every bird I looked at had plastic. Some had a little bit. Some had a lot. Everybody we looked at had plastic."NOAA said most of the debris affecting the island cannot be tracked to any particular country, even Japan, because the plastic is often so weathered and broken by the time it hits Hawaii. "We don't really know the full impact of this type of debris. It adds to an existing problem that we have across the world," said NOAA Pacific Islands Regional Coordinator Carey Morishige. "But it is quite eerie to see an item you think may have come from Japan, someone's home, to sit on a beach thousands of miles away. It brings home the fact beyond the marine debris issue this is first and foremost a human tragedy." It should serve as a reminder, Morishige said, that "the land and the oceans are incredibly connected."