(CNN) Violence returns to Ferguson. Donald Trump is (surprise) not backing down. And a NFL football legend is remembered.It's Monday, and here are five things to know for your new day.FERGUSON ANNIVERSARY: Once again, protesters and police mixed it up on the streets of Ferguson. The violence happened last night on the anniversary of Mike Brown's death. Gunshots rang out, sending people running for cover. Police said officers came under heavy gunfire and fired back, critically wounding a man. Several objects were thrown at police and some businesses were damaged. There were also reports of looting.JUST WATCHED Gunfire erupts on streets of Ferguson Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Gunfire erupts on streets of Ferguson 01:14DONALD TRUMPNo apology: The Donald is not backing down from his "blood" comments about Megyn Kelly. He told The Donald is not backing down from his "blood" comments about Megyn Kelly. He told CNN's Jake Tapper yesterday that he said nothing wrong, that he was not referring to a woman's period and that he cherishes women. It seems like the entire GOP spent the weekend bashing Trump over his comments, and he was disinvited from a conservative gathering in Atlanta. Will this latest controversy cost Trump his spot at the top of the polls, or will he continue to defy political gravity?JUST WATCHED Trump: 'Only a sick person would think about that' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: 'Only a sick person would think about that' 01:28CRIME AND ILLEGAL IMMIGRATIONAnother incident: A California woman, Marilyn Pharis, dies after being beaten and raped last month. The suspects? Two men, one of them A California woman, Marilyn Pharis, dies after being beaten and raped last month. The suspects? Two men, one of them an undocumented immigrant . The local police chief blames the immigration polices of national and state officials for the woman's death. "I am not remiss to say that from Washington, D.C., to Sacramento, there's a blood trail into the bedroom of Marilyn Pharis," said Santa Maria Police Chief Ralph Martin. The suspect who was in the country illegally had been arrested just two weeks before the attack on a misdemeanor drug charge but was released a few days later.JUST WATCHED Police: Woman brutally beaten with hammer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police: Woman brutally beaten with hammer 02:11MEXICOVocal leader silenced: He organized searches to find missing people and set up citizen self-defense groups to keep the streets safe. Now police in Guerrero want to know who killed Miguel Ángel Jiménez Blanco. He was found over the weekend He organized searches to find missing people and set up citizen self-defense groups to keep the streets safe. Now police in Guerrero want to know who killed Miguel Ángel Jiménez Blanco. He was found over the weekend shot to death inside a taxi he owned. Authorities haven't said whether there are any suspects in the slaying. Jiménez was best known for calling attention to the plight of 43 students who disappeared last year in the town of Iguala.The case of 43 missing students in Mexico's Guerrero state sparked national protests and drew global attention. Now, authorities say an activist who helped search for the students was found slain.FRANK GIFFORDFootball legend dies: was more than a Pro Football Hall of Famer. He was one of the first pro athletes to make the successful jump into broadcasting, when he joined Don Meredith and Howard Cosell as part of that classic "Monday Night Football" broadcasting team in the mid-1970s. In later years, he was better known as Kathie Lee Gifford's husband; he married the talk show host in 1986. He was honored last night during NBC's broadcast of the NFL Hall of Fame game and in a tweet from Kathie Lee Gifford's show. Frank Gifford was more than a Pro Football Hall of Famer. He was one of the first pro athletes to make the successful jump into broadcasting, when he joined Don Meredith and Howard Cosell as part of that classic "Monday Night Football" broadcasting team in the mid-1970s. In later years, he was better known as Kathie Lee Gifford's husband; he married the talk show host in 1986. He was honored last night during NBC's broadcast of the NFL Hall of Fame game and in a tweet from Kathie Lee Gifford's show.