Watch " Katrina: The Storm that Never Stopped " Thursday at 9 p.m. ET/PT.(CNN) In the desperation after Hurricane Katrina, survivors in New Orleans begged me for help.They wanted me to call their loved ones.I will never forget two of those calls.The first one happened on August 31, 2005. I was at the convention center when a man came up to me. His wife and children were huddled nearby. His wife, he explained, was a diplomat from Spain. Like many tourists, they had been caught up in the storm and now were stranded. They looked out of place and clearly terrified. He asked me to call a number overseas.Later that evening, when time finally allowed, I called Spain.With only six hours of downtime, part of me just wanted to sleep. But one thought of those desperate faces a few blocks away made sleep impossible.Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – A man in New Orleans' Lower Ninth Ward rides a canoe in high water on August 31, 2005. Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005. After levees and flood walls protecting New Orleans failed, much of the city was underwater. At least 1,833 died in the hurricane and subsequent floods. It was the costliest natural disaster in U.S. history. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – A woman walks with a dog in the Lower Ninth Ward on May 16, 2015. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Robert Fontaine walks past a burning house fire in New Orleans' Seventh Ward on September 6, 2005. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – Houses stand in the Seventh Ward on May 12, 2015. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Residents of the B.W. Cooper housing project play on mattresses on June 10, 2007. Before Hurricane Katrina, B.W. Cooper held about 1,000 families and was the city's largest housing project. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – On May 12, 2015, rubble remains at what used to be the B.W. Cooper housing project. The low-income development has been replaced by two-story, townhouse-style buildings. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Duette Sims stands in the heavily damaged Christian Community Baptist Church in New Orleans' Lower Ninth Ward on August 28, 2007. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – Parishioners gather during Sunday services in the rebuilt church on May 10, 2015. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – On April 25, 2006, workers in the Lower Ninth Ward rebuild the levee that was breached by Hurricane Katrina along the Industrial Canal. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – New homes stand along the rebuilt Industrial Canal levee on May 16, 2015. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Two men paddle through the streets past the Claiborne Bridge in New Orleans on August 31, 2005. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – A school bus drops off a student in front of the Claiborne Bridge on May 12, 2015. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – A lightning bolt strikes above a destroyed church in the Lower Ninth Ward on August 5, 2006. Dozens of churches were destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – New homes stand in the Lower Ninth Ward on May 15, 2015. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – A group of Amish student volunteers tour the Lower Ninth Ward on February 24, 2006. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – On May 16, 2015, new homes stand in a development, built by the Make It Right Foundation, for residents whose homes were destroyed. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Water floods a cemetery outside St. Patrick's Church in Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana, on September 11, 2005. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – The cemetery on May 16, 2015. Hide Caption 18 of 18Since Spanish is not my best language, I had a fluent co-worker make the call. He dialed, and not long after someone answered, handed the phone back to me saying, "They speak English."It was only then I realized that it was the middle of the night where they were. That didn't seem to matter to the person on the other end of the line, judging by the urgency in his voice."You have seen my daughter!?" the man asked. I said yes and that she and her family were OK. I promised not to reveal the identity of the prominent person whose daughter I had seen, but I can tell you the relief in a father's voice sounds the same whether he is powerful or not.The next day when I went to check on the family, they were gone. Those who had seen them said some "special police" had come and retrieved them, and only them. A private rescue. I never knew any more.The second call was to Amethyst.Her father was also one of thousands in the convention center. He wrote her name and number on a piece of cardboard and gave me explicit instructions on what to say.So I called, and I got voice mail.Many people won't answer a call from a satellite phone due to the odd string of numbers that show up on caller ID. I said, "Hi, you don't know me but I'm a reporter here in New Orleans and I saw your father today at the convention center. He's OK and asked me to tell you, quote, 'He ain't dead yet.'" Then there was nothing more to say, so I hung up.A few seconds went by and the phone suddenly rang. It caught me off guard because we didn't get many incoming calls.I tentatively answered, "Hello?"I could tell the caller was a woman, but I couldn't tell what she was saying. She was clearly emotional. Then I realized she was repeating two words over and over through her sobs: "Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you."I've been doing this job for a while and have given many reports, but none have had a greater impact than my simple report to an audience of one -- telling a daughter her dad was alive.