Melodi Smith is an associate producer with the CNN.com homepage team.(CNN) Hurricane Katrina : The mention of those two words still triggers a twinge of fear in my body, enough to make the hairs on the back of my neck stand up.Nearly 10 years have passed since Katrina made landfall, but for those who lived along the Gulf Coast and experienced the storm firsthand, a decade at times feels like days.It's a story thousands of us lived through together. We all saw how life can change in an instant. Here is my Katrina story:Two months before Katrina hit, my family relocated to Mississippi from central Florida. We had taken countless family vacations to the Gulf Coast and we all fell in love with the people, the food and the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico.Programming Note Watch "Katrina: The Storm that Never Stopped" Tuesday at 9 p.m. ET/PT.There was something about the smell of salt in the air and Southern accents in our ears. Mississippi was going to be a new start full of adventure and fun. I started my sophomore year of high school in Long Beach, Mississippi. Long Beach is a small community nestled between Gulfport and Pass Christian.Long Beach embodies Southern charm. New school, friends and life experiences awaited us. We had just settled into our home life and new routine as Mississippi residents. We had many neighbors who spoke about Hurricane Camille, which struck the Gulf in August 1969. For the two months we lived on the Gulf the running joke in our neighborhood was, "If meteorologist Jim Cantore comes to town, this is serious." The joke would later be on us. Cantore made it to the Mississippi Gulf Coast as Katrina approached, and the storm was much worse than we thought.Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – A man in New Orleans' Lower Ninth Ward rides a canoe in high water on August 31, 2005. Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005. After levees and flood walls protecting New Orleans failed, much of the city was underwater. At least 1,833 died in the hurricane and subsequent floods. It was the costliest natural disaster in U.S. history. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – A woman walks with a dog in the Lower Ninth Ward on May 16, 2015. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Robert Fontaine walks past a burning house fire in New Orleans' Seventh Ward on September 6, 2005. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – Houses stand in the Seventh Ward on May 12, 2015. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Residents of the B.W. Cooper housing project play on mattresses on June 10, 2007. Before Hurricane Katrina, B.W. Cooper held about 1,000 families and was the city's largest housing project. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – On May 12, 2015, rubble remains at what used to be the B.W. Cooper housing project. The low-income development has been replaced by two-story, townhouse-style buildings. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Duette Sims stands in the heavily damaged Christian Community Baptist Church in New Orleans' Lower Ninth Ward on August 28, 2007. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – Parishioners gather during Sunday services in the rebuilt church on May 10, 2015. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – On April 25, 2006, workers in the Lower Ninth Ward rebuild the levee that was breached by Hurricane Katrina along the Industrial Canal. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – New homes stand along the rebuilt Industrial Canal levee on May 16, 2015. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Two men paddle through the streets past the Claiborne Bridge in New Orleans on August 31, 2005. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – A school bus drops off a student in front of the Claiborne Bridge on May 12, 2015. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – A lightning bolt strikes above a destroyed church in the Lower Ninth Ward on August 5, 2006. Dozens of churches were destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – New homes stand in the Lower Ninth Ward on May 15, 2015. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – A group of Amish student volunteers tour the Lower Ninth Ward on February 24, 2006. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – On May 16, 2015, new homes stand in a development, built by the Make It Right Foundation, for residents whose homes were destroyed. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Water floods a cemetery outside St. Patrick's Church in Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana, on September 11, 2005. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – The cemetery on May 16, 2015. Hide Caption 18 of 18Two days before the storm my father and I left for a quick trip to Florida, leaving behind my little brother and mother. "It will be OK, we will see you soon," I remember saying. "We will drive to Florida and come back to return to normal life." I wish we would have all been together to weather the storm.However, I am certain if we did stay my dad would have stayed inside and died from the 18-foot storm surge that leveled our two-story home. He would have never stayed at the storm shelter; he would have put us first and roughed it alone. Thankfully, my older sister did not relocate to Mississippi with us; she was safe in Florida.When Katrina hit the Gulf, I had the worst feeling: a combination of nerves and nausea. My mother and brother were in a storm shelter for area residents, but we did not know the condition of the shelter that would be keeping them safe. No telephone calls made to them or any local or federal agency would connect.Silence.National television coverage was wall-to-wall, showing the houses torn down, trees strewn about and downed power lines. Everything I had seen a few days before while driving out of my neighborhood was gone. The only glimpse of my former life was on Oprah Winfrey. She showed before and after photos of the Gulf. This pristine area looked like a war zone. Completely incomprehensible to me."We just started over here. This cannot be happening," I thought.We did not know until two days after Katrina made landfall in Mississippi whether my mom and brother were alive or dead. Forty-eight hours seems like a lifetime when you are waiting for a call to find out about your loved ones. The optimist in me wanted to believe my family was alive, but the pessimist at times took over.JUST WATCHED Town remembers Hurricane Katrina victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Town remembers Hurricane Katrina victims 01:45A teenage girl needed her mother for all the things mothers provide: comfort, reassurance and strength. A teenage girl also needed a little brother she would learn would be wiser than she could imagine. A husband needed the wife he started a family with and a son whom he raised to be a man.There was no sweeter moment than when my mom called and told us, "I'm OK. I used the GPS in the roof truck to navigate to Florida. I'll be home soon."Photos: Best new attractions in New Orleans Photos: Best new attractions in New Orleans Crescent Park – Picture New York's High Line with a riverfront -- Crescent Park is a 1.4-mile recreational corridor bordering the Mississippi that includes a fenced dog run, picnic areas, and hike and bike trails. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Best new attractions in New Orleans Aloft New Orleans Downtown – The city welcomes over 2,000 new hotel rooms opening in this year alone. This new 188-room hotel boasts of a rooftop pool and a lounge complete with pool table. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Best new attractions in New Orleans Old No. 77 Hotel & Chandlery – This soon-opening hotel is housed in a revamped warehouse dating back to 1854. The 167-room retreat is outfitted with ceiling fans, hardwood floors, and exposed brick walls. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Best new attractions in New Orleans Chef Nina Compton – St. Lucia-native Nina Compton, competitor in season 11 of the hit show "Top Chef," is bringing her island flavors, with a focus on local ingredients, to a yet-to-be-named spot inside the new Old No. 77 Hotel. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Best new attractions in New Orleans Southern Food & Beverage Museum – The food museum offers displays on everything from cocktails to cake decorating, as well as cooking demos, discussions, and other tasty events. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Best new attractions in New Orleans New Orleans Jazz Market – Once a long-abandoned space occupied by Gators Department Store, this is now the New Orleans Jazz Market, new home to Grammy winner Irvin Mayfield and his New Orleans Jazz Orchestra. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Best new attractions in New Orleans Orpheum Theater – The beautiful beaux arts building, dating to 1918, was shuttered post Katrina, but is currently undergoing a $13 million renovation in order to restore it to its former glory. Reopening this fall. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Best new attractions in New Orleans National WWII Museum – One of the most recent additions to this expanding museum is the Road to Berlin: European Theater Galleries, which illustrates the struggles to defeat the Axis of power through historic artifacts, period newsreels, and re-created battle scenes. Hide Caption 8 of 8We did not anticipate losing almost everything we owned. We did not anticipate going back to a life in Florida and restarting, again.The new promise of the Gulf Coast was gone, but all these years later we still know we have one thing: family. I did not have to bury my mother or my brother at 15 years old. I was indeed one of the lucky ones. My family has been able to share in all my celebrations and triumphs over the past 10 years. And I in theirs.The thing about natural disasters is they do not discriminate based on race, gender or religion. They come to an area and leave disarray everywhere. The common thread that ties people together in every natural disaster is you are a survivor. You survived the thing that most people could not begin to comprehend. You shed many tears in fighting the battle to put your life back together and you won. You conquered it. Ten years ago, my life forever changed because of Hurricane Katrina, and it made me a better me.