(CNN) Hurricane Katrina ripped into Pascagoula, Mississippi, with unprecedented strength 10 years ago. Churning waters 4 feet high carried a mix of raw sewage and mud through the classrooms at Resurrection Catholic School, ripping maps and posters off the walls and consuming shelves of textbooks as floodwaters rose.Parents and teachers couldn't believe what they found when the roads finally reopened."I will never forget that day," Elizabeth Benefield, the elementary school's principal, recalled from her office at the now-restored school. "It was very much a surreal experience. The parents came in and started gutting the building and created a pile of debris at the edge of the road -- that's how committed our parents were to getting the school going again."Six miles away, nothing was left to save at St. Peter the Apostle Catholic School, a historically black elementary school. All was gone except for one auxiliary building. For the generations of African-American families who had sent children and grandchildren to the school, St. Peter's was just a memory.President George W. Bush looks out the window of Air Force One on August 31, 2005, as he flies over New Orleans. Returning to Washington from Texas, Air Force One descended to about 5,000 feet to allow Bush to view some of the worst damage from Hurricane Katrina.President George W. Bush looks out the window of Air Force One on August 31, 2005, as he flies over New Orleans. Returning to Washington from Texas, Air Force One descended to about 5,000 feet to allow Bush to view some of the worst damage from Hurricane Katrina.People wade through high water in front of the Superdome in New Orleans on August 30, 2005.People wade through high water in front of the Superdome in New Orleans on August 30, 2005.People try to get to higher ground as water rises on August 30, 2005, in New Orleans.People try to get to higher ground as water rises on August 30, 2005, in New Orleans.People search for their belongings among debris washed up on the beach in Biloxi on August 30, 2005.People search for their belongings among debris washed up on the beach in Biloxi on August 30, 2005.A woman cries after returning to her house and business, destroyed by Hurricane Katrina, on August 30, 2005, in Biloxi, Mississippi.A woman cries after returning to her house and business, destroyed by Hurricane Katrina, on August 30, 2005, in Biloxi, Mississippi.People seek high ground on Interstate 90 as a helicopter prepares to land at the Superdome in New Orleans on August 31, 2005.People seek high ground on Interstate 90 as a helicopter prepares to land at the Superdome in New Orleans on August 31, 2005.Hanging from her roof, a woman waits to be rescued by New Orleans Fire Department workers on August 29, 2005.Hanging from her roof, a woman waits to be rescued by New Orleans Fire Department workers on August 29, 2005.Residents of Saucier, Mississippi, line up to get gas on August 31, 2005.Residents of Saucier, Mississippi, line up to get gas on August 31, 2005.Daryl Thompson and his daughter Dejanae, 3 months old, wait with other displaced residents on a highway to catch a ride out of New Orleans on August 31, 2005. Thousands were looking for a place to go after leaving the Superdome shelter.Daryl Thompson and his daughter Dejanae, 3 months old, wait with other displaced residents on a highway to catch a ride out of New Orleans on August 31, 2005. Thousands were looking for a place to go after leaving the Superdome shelter.Police watch over prisoners from Orleans Parish Prison who were evacuated to a highway on September 1, 2005.Police watch over prisoners from Orleans Parish Prison who were evacuated to a highway on September 1, 2005.A woman gets carried out of floodwaters after being trapped in her home in Orleans Parish, Louisiana, on August 30, 2005.A woman gets carried out of floodwaters after being trapped in her home in Orleans Parish, Louisiana, on August 30, 2005.A neighborhood east of downtown New Orleans remains flooded on August 30, 2005.A neighborhood east of downtown New Orleans remains flooded on August 30, 2005.Evacuees crowd the floor of the Astrodome in Houston on September 2, 2005. The facility housed 15,000 refugees who fled the destruction of Hurricane Katrina.Evacuees crowd the floor of the Astrodome in Houston on September 2, 2005. The facility housed 15,000 refugees who fled the destruction of Hurricane Katrina.A helicopter rescues a family from a rooftop on September 1, 2005. Floodwaters from Hurricane Katrina stranded thousands of New Orleans residents.A helicopter rescues a family from a rooftop on September 1, 2005. Floodwaters from Hurricane Katrina stranded thousands of New Orleans residents.Water spills over a levee along the Inner Harbor Navigational Canal in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina on August 30, 2005, in New Orleans. Katrina struck the Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005. After levees and flood walls protecting New Orleans failed, much of the city was underwater.Water spills over a levee along the Inner Harbor Navigational Canal in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina on August 30, 2005, in New Orleans. Katrina struck the Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005. After levees and flood walls protecting New Orleans failed, much of the city was underwater.By the time Resurrection reopened two months later, in October 2005, there was more than new flooring and furniture: The school community now included 100 African-American students from St. Peter's, Benefield said."It was a hard transition for the kids," she said. "But our kids were very open and accepting, and everybody was kind of in the same boat. They had all experienced great loss and had homes destroyed. So they all really formed new friendships and bonds."Six months after Katrina hit, St. Peter's was still the scene of utter destruction, with desks and textbooks strewn in the rubble of fallen buildings. But amid the loss and rebuilding, the disaster forged new friendships in the Resurrection community.Kered Graves and Cristina Cardenas were both 9 when Katrina reshaped the world they knew. Cardenas attended predominately white Resurrection, while Graves had gone to predominately black St. Peter's. They instantly became best friends.Kered Graves, left, and Cristina Cardenas became friends when their schools joined forces after Katrina."When only white people were here, I only had like five friends. And now I have more friends," Cardenas told CNN's Randi Kaye in February 2006, a few months after her school had grown enormously.Graves echoed that sentiment. "I didn't have much white friends there at all," she said then. "There was a whole black school. And I was like, that can't be right. I mean, I loved St. Peter's with my whole heart. It's just that I want white friends. I couldn't take it."Graves soon got her wish as Resurrection welcomed the students and teachers of the destroyed St. Peter's with open arms.Graves' mother, Waukeita Chestang-Graves, attended St. Peter's school as a child, as did her parents, grandparents, aunts and uncles and cousins. "The loss of St. Peter's was devastating to the African-American community," she said this week. "But with all the differences when these kids were thrust into another school with children of all races, they had the common element of their faith."Today, Graves and Cardenas remain close friends. They're in their first month of college, having left home a decade after the tragedy that first brought them together."We just clicked," Graves said on the phone recently, walking across the Jackson State University campus on her first day of college. "Cristina and I ended up in the same class growing up and just clicked."Cardenas shares similar memories. "Kered and I definitely got along right away. She's just a great person, and she ended up being a close friend," she said during a break between her classes at East Mississippi Community College. "Ten years later, it's cool to see how we all grew up, and after everything, we can all manage to call each other friends after so long."Both women said they feel their experience with Katrina at such a young age has made going off to college easier."A lot of my new friends are talking about how hard it is to make this huge transition to college," Graves said, "but honestly I went through so much more when I was a 9-year-old, busing to a brand new school after mine was totally destroyed. This is nothing."Cardenas agreed, remembering that "at first it was intimidating to have all these new kids in our school, but we just wanted to help them out. And now, making new friends in college is easier."Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – A man in New Orleans' Lower Ninth Ward rides a canoe in high water on August 31, 2005. Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast on August 29, 2005. After levees and flood walls protecting New Orleans failed, much of the city was underwater. At least 1,833 died in the hurricane and subsequent floods. It was the costliest natural disaster in U.S. history. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – A woman walks with a dog in the Lower Ninth Ward on May 16, 2015. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Robert Fontaine walks past a burning house fire in New Orleans' Seventh Ward on September 6, 2005. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – Houses stand in the Seventh Ward on May 12, 2015. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Residents of the B.W. Cooper housing project play on mattresses on June 10, 2007. Before Hurricane Katrina, B.W. Cooper held about 1,000 families and was the city's largest housing project. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – On May 12, 2015, rubble remains at what used to be the B.W. Cooper housing project. The low-income development has been replaced by two-story, townhouse-style buildings. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Duette Sims stands in the heavily damaged Christian Community Baptist Church in New Orleans' Lower Ninth Ward on August 28, 2007. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – Parishioners gather during Sunday services in the rebuilt church on May 10, 2015. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – On April 25, 2006, workers in the Lower Ninth Ward rebuild the levee that was breached by Hurricane Katrina along the Industrial Canal. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – New homes stand along the rebuilt Industrial Canal levee on May 16, 2015. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Two men paddle through the streets past the Claiborne Bridge in New Orleans on August 31, 2005. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – A school bus drops off a student in front of the Claiborne Bridge on May 12, 2015. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – A lightning bolt strikes above a destroyed church in the Lower Ninth Ward on August 5, 2006. Dozens of churches were destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – New homes stand in the Lower Ninth Ward on May 15, 2015. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – A group of Amish student volunteers tour the Lower Ninth Ward on February 24, 2006. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – On May 16, 2015, new homes stand in a development, built by the Make It Right Foundation, for residents whose homes were destroyed. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Then – Water floods a cemetery outside St. Patrick's Church in Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana, on September 11, 2005. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Hurricane Katrina: Then and now Now – The cemetery on May 16, 2015. Hide Caption 18 of 18Ten years after Katrina, the students, parents and staff of Resurrection can see the unexpected blessings that came along with their pain.The school has truly been resurrected, with a new 30,000-square-foot activity building featuring a computer lab, kitchen, gym, art and music center, and library."By the grace of God, we have a blessing from the devastation that was there," Benefield said. "St. Peter's (church parish) often shares the facility with us, and now a bond has formed between the two parishes. Our friendship continues today."