(CNN) Rescue crews finally reach the site of a plane crash in Indonesia -- and find bodies. Active duty soldiers will become firefighters battling infernos in the West. And a hospital shuts down a pediatric surgery program after an alarming investigation by CNN.It's Tuesday, and here are the five things to know for your new day:BANGKOK BLASTThat's how a witness described the carnage after someone detonated a bomb in Bangkok, Thailand, apparently targeting a popular Hindu shrine . The explosion killed at least 22 people and wounded another 120. Now the hunt is on to figure out who carried out the bombing -- and why.WESTERN WILDFIRESFrom soldiers to firefighters: For the first time since 2006, active duty military personnel will help fight wildfires scorching huge parts of the West. For the first time since 2006, active duty military personnel will help fight wildfires scorching huge parts of the West. About 95 fires have destroyed hundreds of homes and have torched more than 1 million acres in Oregon, Washington, Idaho, Montana, California, Nevada and Colorado.INDONESIA PLANE CRASHJUST WATCHED Terrain, weather delay access to downed plane Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Terrain, weather delay access to downed plane 01:45Finding victims: Nasty weather and treacherous terrain have prevented crews from reaching the Trigana Air Service plane that crashed Sunday in Indonesia. But on Tuesday, rescue workers finally managed to reach the mountainous site -- Nasty weather and treacherous terrain have prevented crews from reaching the Trigana Air Service plane that crashed Sunday in Indonesia. But on Tuesday, rescue workers finally managed to reach the mountainous site -- and found at least 38 bodies . The plane was carrying 54 people across Papua province.WOMEN IN ARMY RANGER COURSEHistory made: For the first time, a woman -- actually, two women -- have completed the Army Ranger course and will graduate from the prestigious school in Fort Benning, Georgia. The graduation ceremony will take place Friday. But the Pentagon isn't expected to make final decisions about exactly what combat roles women will be allowed to fulfill until later this year.CNN MEDICAL INVESTIGATIONJUST WATCHED Programs shutting down at St. Mary's Medical Center Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Programs shutting down at St. Mary's Medical Center 04:13