Story highlights Josh Duggar reportedly paid Ashley Madison some $986 between 2012 and 2015He releases a statement in the wake of the Ashley Madison website hackThe reality TV star asks for forgiveness(CNN) Reality TV star Josh Duggar is apologizing after being outed as one of the 32 million people who used the cheating website Ashley Madison."I have been the biggest hypocrite ever. While espousing faith and family values, I have secretly over the last several years been viewing pornography on the internet and this became a secret addiction and I became unfaithful to my wife," Duggar said in a statement Thursday.Photos: The Duggar family Photos: The Duggar family Jessa Seewald, one of the 19 Duggar children, and her husband, Ben welcomed their second son on February 6. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: The Duggar family Jill Duggar and her husband Derick Dillard are expecting their second child in July 2017. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: The Duggar family Jinger Duggar and Jeremy Vuolo announced their engagement in July and got married in November, according to People magazine. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: The Duggar family In July 2015, Josh Duggar and his wife, Anna, welcomed their fourth child, daughter Meredith Grace. Soon after that, Josh Duggar entered a faith-based rehab facility after he was outed as a user of the cheating website Ashley Madison. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: The Duggar family The Duggar family, stars of the now-canceled TLC show "19 Kids and Counting," visits "Extra" at its New York studios in March 2014. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: The Duggar family Josh Duggar, the oldest child of Jim Bob and Michelle Duggar, gives an interview in March 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: The Duggar family Four of the Duggar girls with their mother, Michelle. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: The Duggar family Michelle Duggar sits at the dinner table with other women and girls in the family. Hide Caption 8 of 8He did not specifically address Ashley Madison in his statement, which was issued in the wake of the hackers' data dump and later modified to omit the reference to pornography."I brought hurt and a reproach to my family, close friends and the fans of our show with my actions that happened when I was 14-15 years old, and now I have re-broken their trust," Duggar said.Read More