(CNN) An elite prep school is under scrutiny for a "senior salute," online cheaters may have had their secrets released and Obama is getting heat from another Democrat over his Iran deal.It's Wednesday, and here are five things to know for your new day:ASHLEY MADISON HACKIf you've been using the infidelity website AshleyMadison.com, it might be time to start sweating. Hackers who hit the site, designed to help married people cheat on their spouses, published stolen customer dataSharing that Ashley Madison dox is uncool. Can't people just let other people ruin their marriages in peace?PREP SCHOOL RAPE TRIALBig day in court: A 19-year-old graduate of an elite New Hampshire prep school is on trial for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl last year as part of a "senior salute" -- A 19-year-old graduate of an elite New Hampshire prep school is on trial for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl last year as part of a "senior salute" -- which some call a competition amongst seniors to have sex with as many younger female students as possible. The alleged victim will continue her testimony Wednesday.IRAN DEALJUST WATCHED Sen. Menendez: Iran deal is 'aspirational' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sen. Menendez: Iran deal is 'aspirational' 05:19Obama vs. some Dems: Republicans aren't the only ones slamming President Barack Obama's Iran nuclear deal. Sen. Robert Menendez of New Jersey is Republicans aren't the only ones slamming President Barack Obama's Iran nuclear deal. Sen. Robert Menendez of New Jersey is the latest Democrat to publicly criticize the deal , which was announced last month by the "P5+1" countries. If Congress rejects the deal, Obama has pledged to veto the rejection. But Menendez said if needed, he would vote to override the veto.BATGIRL DEATHYvonne CraigFrom dancer to superhero: Before Lynda Carter's Wonder Woman, before Joanna Cameron's Isis, before Scarlett Johannsson's Black Widow, Yvonne Craig was a pioneer of female superheroes on screen. But after a two-year battle with breast cancer, Before Lynda Carter's Wonder Woman, before Joanna Cameron's Isis, before Scarlett Johannsson's Black Widow, Yvonne Craig was a pioneer of female superheroes on screen. But after a two-year battle with breast cancer, the woman who originated the role of Batgirl has diedFEMALE VIAGRAJUST WATCHED 'Female Viagra' gets FDA approval Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Female Viagra' gets FDA approval 02:16