(CNN) Horror movie director Wes Craven dies. Parents of slain journalist take on gun control. And MH370 questions linger on.It's Monday, and here are the Five Things to Know for Your New Day.WES CRAVENHe shaped and reshaped the horror film genre, and took moviegoers on a dark, deep journey. Wes Craven, the visionary filmmaker behind the long-enduring "A Nightmare on Elm Street" and "Scream" franchises died yesterday after battling cancer. He was 76.JOURNALISTS' KILLINGSJUST WATCHED Alison Parker's boyfriend on stopping gun violence Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Alison Parker's boyfriend on stopping gun violence 01:52Parents take action: In less than a week, In less than a week, their daughter's murder set their lives onto a new course , into roles they never wanted to take on and into a battle they never planned to fight. But Andy and Barbara Parker -- the parents of slain television journalist Alison Parker -- speak about gun control with a passion. Alison Parker, along with her colleague Adam Ward, were killed last week. Various tributes are planned in Virginia this week, including a celebration of life tomorrow.MH370JUST WATCHED Chinese MH370 families demand certainty, closure Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chinese MH370 families demand certainty, closure 02:13So many questions: French experts have not been able to determine with certainty whether French experts have not been able to determine with certainty whether a piece of airplane wing found last month on an Indian Ocean island belongs to MH370, the Malaysian airliner carrying 239 people that disappeared 2014, a French source says. And relatives want answers.TEXAS SHOOTINGJUST WATCHED Police: Suspect arrested in killing of Texas deputy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police: Suspect arrested in killing of Texas deputy 01:13Initial appearance: A Texas man appears in court today following the "execution-style shooting" of Deputy Darren H. Goforth on Friday night while he was fueling his patrol car near Houston. The suspect, identified as Shannon J. Miles, faces a capital murder charge. Investigators continue to search for a motive.MARS PHOTOSJUST WATCHED Searching for signs of intelligent life on Mars Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Searching for signs of intelligent life on Mars 05:07