Photos: WDBJ journalists fatally shot; interview subject wounded Reporter Alison Parker and cameraman Adam Ward of WDBJ-TV were fatally shot during a live interview, Wednesday, August 26, in Moneta, Virginia. Authorities identified the suspect as fellow journalist Vester Lee Flanagan II, who appeared on WDBJ-TV as Bryce Williams. Flanagan was fired from the station after working there for a year. Hide Caption 1 of 8Photos: WDBJ journalists fatally shot; interview subject wounded The woman being interviewed, Vicki Gardner , executive director of the Smith Mountain Lake Regional Chamber of Commerce, was shot in the back and was in surgery, said Barb Nocera, the chamber's special projects manager. Hide Caption 2 of 8Photos: WDBJ journalists fatally shot; interview subject wounded Adam Ward joined WDBJ in 2011 after graduating from Virginia Tech with a degree in communication and media studies, according to his Facebook page. Hide Caption 3 of 8Photos: WDBJ journalists fatally shot; interview subject wounded Robert Denton, one of Ward's professors, said: "Adam was a delightful person. He worked hard -- you could tell he loved what he was doing. He wasn't afraid to pitch in and do whatever was necessary for the broadcast." Hide Caption 4 of 8Photos: WDBJ journalists fatally shot; interview subject wounded A journalist at the Virginia station said Ward was engaged to be married to morning show producer Melissa Ott. Ward reportedly recently told her, "I'm going to get out of news. I think I'm going to do something else." Hide Caption 5 of 8Photos: WDBJ journalists fatally shot; interview subject wounded Alison Parker, 24, was described as a "rock star" by a colleague. Parker was a native of the southwest Virginia area. "She was living her dream," said Deon Guillory, now a reporter in Augusta, Georgia. Hide Caption 6 of 8Photos: WDBJ journalists fatally shot; interview subject wounded Parker's boyfriend, station anchor Chris Hurst, said, "She was the most radiant woman I ever met. And for some reason she loved me back. She loved her family, her parents and her brother." Hide Caption 7 of 8