(CNN) David Denson, a first baseman for the Milwaukee Brewers' rookie affiliate in Helena, Montana, made baseball history this weekend by revealing that he is gay .Denson, 20, publicly disclosed the news in a Milwaukee Journal Sentinel article after sharing it with his family and Helena Brewers teammates. The news makes Denson the first active player affiliated with a Major League organization to come out publicly."Talking with my teammates, they gave me the confidence I needed, coming out to them," Denson told sports writer Tom Haudricourt"They said, 'You're still our teammate. You're still our brother. We kind of had an idea, but your sexuality has nothing to do with your ability. You're still a ballplayer at the end of the day. We don't treat you any different. We've got your back.'"Denson, who is batting .245 with four home runs and 18 RBIs in 42 games for Helena, is the Brewers' 27th-ranked prospect, according to MLB.com . He was selected by the Brewers in the 15th round of the 2013 Major League Baseball Draft out of South Hills High School in West Covina, California.A handful of retired pro athletes have come out in recent years, including retired major leaguer Billy Bean. Since retiring from professional baseball in 1995, Bean has spoken frequently about the pressure gay athletes face to conceal their sexuality. As Major League Baseball's first Ambassador for Inclusion, Bean counseled Denson on his decision to reveal he is gay."Any player who happens to be gay and is a professional and has kept that secret, they just want to be judged for their baseball or football or basketball ability. David would not be playing professional baseball if he wasn't an excellent baseball player," Bean told the Journal Sentinel."The beauty of what could come from this is he can be an example that can help change that perception and change the stereotype that there would never be a gay person on a men's professional sports team. That was something I struggled with."Photos: Openly gay athletes David Denson, a first baseman for the Milwaukee Brewers' rookie affiliate in Helena, Montana, told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel in August 2015 that he is gay. The news makes him the first active player affiliated with a Major League organization to come out publicly. Click through to see other openly gay athletes. Hide Caption 1 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes American soccer legend Abby Wambach's sexuality was an open secret for years before she married fellow soccer player Sarah Huffman in 2013. Hide Caption 2 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Swimmer Ian Thorpe, seen here in 2004 with one of his five Olympic gold medals, told an Australian news outlet that he is gay in an interview that aired on Sunday, July 13. Hide Caption 3 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Former Missouri defensive end Michael Sam told ESPN and The New York Times that he is gay on February 9. Sam later became the first openly gay player to be drafted by a NFL team when he was taken by the St. Louis Rams in the seventh round. Hide Caption 4 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Robbie Rogers became the first openly gay male athlete to play in a professional American sporting match when he took the field for Major League Soccer's Los Angeles Galaxy during a match against the Seattle Sounders on May 26. Hide Caption 5 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes "I didn't set out to be the first openly gay athlete playing in a major American team sport. But since I am, I'm happy to start the conversation," NBA player Jason Collins said in a Sports Illustrated article Hide Caption 6 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Sheryl Swoopes, a retired WNBA star and coach of the Loyola University Chicago's women's basketball team, came out in 2005. Hide Caption 7 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Brittney Griner , selected No. 1 in the 2013 WNBA draft by the Phoenix Mercury, is openly gay. Hide Caption 8 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes In an exclusive interview with CNN, former San Francisco 49ers player Kwame Harris came out as gay after rumors circulated in the media. Hide Caption 9 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Rugby player Gareth Thomas of Wales spoke about being gay to a British news channel in 2009. Hide Caption 10 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Justin Fashanu became the first openly gay soccer player in Europe when he came out in 1990. Eight years later, he took his own life. Hide Caption 11 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Tennis great Martina Navratilova came out in 1981. Hide Caption 12 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes After his retirement in 2007, basketball player John Amaechi announced he was gay. Hide Caption 13 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes After retiring from professional football in 1972, David Kopay acknowledged to the Washington Star that he was gay. Hide Caption 14 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Villanova University's Will Sheridan came out to his teammates in 2003. Hide Caption 15 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes In 2012, U.S. women's soccer player Megan Rapinoe confirmed in Out magazine that she was a lesbian. Hide Caption 16 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Champion figure skater Johnny Weir confirmed in his 2011 memoir, "Welcome to My World," that he was gay. Hide Caption 17 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Australia's Matthew Mitcham came out in an interview with the Sydney Morning Herald in 2008. Hide Caption 18 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes In 2012, Orlando Cruz became the first active professional fighter to publicly announce that he was gay. Hide Caption 19 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Openly gay British dressage rider Carl Hester helped his team win gold at the 2012 Olympics. Hide Caption 20 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes English cricketer Steven Davies announced he was gay in 2011. Hide Caption 21 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Germany's Judith Arndt won the silver medal in cycling at the 2012 Olympics. Hide Caption 22 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Billy Bean, a former Major League Baseball player, discussed being gay in a 1999 New York Times article. Hide Caption 23 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Tennis legend Billie Jean King was outed by a former female partner in 1981. Hide Caption 24 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes In 2002, professional football player Esera Tuaolo came out on HBO's "Real Sports." Hide Caption 25 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes French tennis player Amelie Mauresmo came out in 1999. Hide Caption 26 of 27 Photos: Openly gay athletes Greg Louganis, who won four Olympic golds for the United States during his diving career, has been openly gay since 1995. Hide Caption 27 of 27Denson told the Journal Sentinel that he has concealed his sexuality since the Brewers selected him in 2013. The secret began to weigh on him as spring training began in 2015."It became a depression level," he told the paper. "I wasn't being myself. It was visible in my body language. I didn't know if I should still stay in the sport."Denson is not doing this for the publicity, Bean said. "David is very humble. It's really about being his best self. He's a great baseball player, but he needs to be his best self to get to the big leagues."Many in the sports world voiced support for Denson, including the Brewers' leadership."David is a highly respected member of the Milwaukee Brewers family, and he is a very courageous young man," Milwaukee Brewers President Doug Melvin said in a statement. "Our goal for David is to help develop him into a Major League player, just as it is for any player in our system, and we will continue to support him in every way as he chases that dream."Brewers statement on Minor League player David Denson: pic.twitter.com/lot6Zq4s2L — Milwaukee Brewers (@Brewers) August 16, 2015"May David Denson be judged solely on his baseball ability. Wish him both support and success," WTMJ Milwaukee sports anchor Doug Russell saidDenson's Helena teammates also offered support."Proud of my teammate David Denson. Extremely brave guy. Much respect for him!" Helena Brewers outfielder Troy Stokes said"Sexuality does not dictate ones ability to play the game of baseball or be a good teammate. Nothing but support for our brother David Denson," catcher Mitch Ghelfi said