(CNN) For the umpteenth time, the New England Patriots march into the Super Bowl. So that means the Philadelphia Eagles are the nation's last hope. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Government shutdownThe premise of a game of chicken is that in the end, someone always flinches. But here we are on Day 3 of the shutdown and neither side is. Instead the divisions are deepening. The Senate votes at noon on a bill that would reopen the government and fund it for three weeks, but Democrats aren't jazzed about it. That's because they still don't have assurances that a fix for DACA, or at least a big vote on immigration, will come out of it. Vice President Mike Pence has said there will be no immigration talks until the government reopens.Today is really the first day the shutdown's effects will be felt, as hundreds of thousands of furloughed federal workers stay home from their jobs.Over the weekend, President Trump took a hands-off approach to the crisis, preferring instead to speak through his favorite bullhorn: Twitter. He blamed the Democrats and said the Senate should just exercise the "nuclear option," as in: no more 60 votes to end a filibuster. His reelection campaign released an ad accusing Democrats of being "complicit in all murders" committed by undocumented immigrants.So when this mess ends -- and it will end, right? -- who gets the blame? Going in to the shutdown, the conventional wisdom was the GOP, since it controls the White House and Congress. But a new CNN poll offers several red flags for the Dems : More Americans think avoiding a shutdown is more important than continuing DACA, it found. What's more, the Dems' advantage in the 2018 election is shrinking.JUST WATCHED Schumer: WH talks like negotiating with Jell-O Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Schumer: WH talks like negotiating with Jell-O 01:392. Women's marchesJUST WATCHED The Women's March: How a moment became a movement Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The Women's March: How a moment became a movement 35:053. Kabul hotel attackJUST WATCHED Taliban claim responsibility for hotel attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Taliban claim responsibility for hotel attack 01:564. Turkey and SyriaA dangerous new front in the Syrian conflict may be opening up thanks to a key US ally: Turkey. The Turks hit US-backed Kurdish militia with airstrikes in northern Syria that killed at least eight people. Then, Turkish troops entered the area. This is sure to inflame tensions between the US and Turkey. The US supports and arms the Kurdish militias, because they help fight ISIS. But Turkey has long fought the groups because it doesn't want them to create a Kurdish state along its borders. Turkey also considers the militia as part of the PKK, an outlawed Kurdish group responsible for major terror attacks in Turkey as part of its bid for national ethnic autonomy. The European Union and United States have both named the PKK as a terrorist outfit.JUST WATCHED Rockets fired from Syria hit Turkey border Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rockets fired from Syria hit Turkey border 02:235. SAG awardsJUST WATCHED Kristen Bell jabs at first lady Melania Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kristen Bell jabs at first lady Melania Trump 00:10QUOTE OF THE DAY"I found out for the first time last night that the person who technically shuts the government down is me, which is kind of cool."White House budget director Mick Mulvaney, who's been tasked with negotiating a deal with congressional leaders to fund the government and end the shutdown.BREAKFAST BROWSEWedding songsHe'll need a shirt for this oneRemember that shirtless Tongan guy who lit up the Opening Ceremonies at the Summer Olympics? He'll be in Seoul next month -- as a cross-country skier.Gotta goNo cash needed. And no checkout lines. It's just grab and go at the Amazon Go store, which opens today in Seattle.Royal time capsuleVintage cigarette packets and 130-year-old newspapers. When you rewire a place as historic as Buckingham Palace , bits of history just tumble out of the walls.WHAT'S FOR LUNCHRacial killing?An Oklahoma family hopes it will get justice today as their neighbor, whom they call a racist, goes on trial on hate crime and murder charges in the death of their son.NUMBER OF THE DAY$8 of every $10AND FINALLYSugar kissesHere's something to get your mind off that pesky government shutdown: Sweet goodnight kisses from a sweet little parakeet. ( Click to viewCorrection: This piece has been amended to correct Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg's last name.