Story highlights Two suspicious bags were spotted on the one-year anniversary of the attacksA man carrying one of the bags was charged with possessing a hoax deviceRunners will not be allowed to wear backpacks in this year's Boston MarathonLarge signs, costumes and unregistered runners will also be bannedAs 36,000 marathoners get ready to pound the streets of Boston on Monday, authorities have their own mammoth task ahead: trying to keep all 26.2 miles of the course safe.Officials say they have gone to great lengths to make sure nothing like last year's attacks will happen.For starters, no backpacks or rucksacks will be allowed on the course this year, said Kurt Schwartz, director of the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency.The bombs that killed three people and wounded 264 others last year were placed in backpacks.The Boston Athletic Association, which organizes the marathon, said spectators are also encouraged to leave backpacks and handbags at homeJUST WATCHED Biden: 'We own the finish line' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Biden: 'We own the finish line' 01:23Containers with more than 1 liter of liquid, costumes covering the face, and bulky clothes such as vests with pockets won't be allowed.JUST WATCHED Suspect: 'Performance got the best of me' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Suspect: 'Performance got the best of me' 01:24JUST WATCHED Boston bombing survivor runs for friend Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boston bombing survivor runs for friend 05:27JUST WATCHED Boston still strong after one year Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boston still strong after one year 02:31And large flags or signs bigger than 11 inches by 17 inches are also banned from marathon venues. Those venues include the start and finish areas, the course, the athletes' village and areas where official events are held.Unregistered runners and cyclists intending to jump into the race aren't welcome this year, either."We are aware that many people want to participate in some way in this year's Boston Marathon as a display of support," the BAA said in a statement. "But we ask that those who are not official participants to refrain from entering the course for the safety of the runners and themselves."The anniversary scareAt a memorial to mark the one-year anniversary of the bombings, one sight evoked memories of the gruesome attacks: suspicious bags near the Boston Marathon finish line.Police spotted the bags on Boylston Street -- not far from where two pressure-cooker bombs exploded a year ago.The first clue that something was amiss came when an officer spotted a man carrying one of the bags walking barefoot in the rain down Boylston Street. Police said he became very vocal and started yelling.When asked what was in his backpack, the man told the officer it was a rice cooker, Boston Police Superintendent Randy Halstead said."We looked into the backpack, saw that it was what appeared to be a rice cooker, had the individual take the knapsack off, drop it on the street, and he was taken into custody," Halstead said.The man was identified by prosecutors as Kevin Edson, also known as Kayvon Edson. He was arrested and charged with disorderly conduct, disturbing the peace and possession of a hoax device, Halstead said.A bomb squad inspected the bag and deemed it safe.Photos: Still running a year after Boston Photos: Still running a year after Boston Still running for Boston – CNN asked our iReporters to pledge to run a marathon, or shorter race, before the 1-year anniversary of the Boston Marathon Bombing. "The bombings reminded so many of us why we enjoy running, and that these violent acts can't shake and define a city like Boston," said Anusha Mookherjee , who grew up in Newton, Massachusetts, a suburb of Boston. She was inspired to run the Boston Athletic Association 10K -- her first road race -- and a half-marathon. She continues to run three times a week. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Still running a year after Boston Still running for Boston – "I wanted to run for those that can't run anymore," said Boston resident Ashley Seymour . She was standing near the Boston Marathon finish line when the first bomb went off. She had been a runner all her life, but hadn't done a race since tearing her ACL in 2011. Running became part of her emotional healing process. Since the bombings, she has run a 10K and a half-marathon. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Still running a year after Boston Still running for Boston – "I couldn't go home, and I couldn't go to work, so other than watching cable news 24/7, I had running," said Mark Giannetti , left, who lived and worked within a block of each bomb. He and his friend, Jess, right, ran a 5K and 10K race together last year. He's training for a half-marathon. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Still running a year after Boston Still running for Boston – "So much blood, sweat and tears go into preparing for and racing a marathon and to have the fruit of your labor snatched away in such an evil manner haunted me," said Jennifer Kirkpatrick , right, from Bonham, Texas. At the time of the bombings, she had recently run her first half-marathon. She ran another half-marathon in support of the victims and plans to run the Dallas marathon this year. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Still running a year after Boston Still running for Boston – Terry Moorhead of Phoenix did not plan to run another marathon -- this was his sixth -- but after the bombings, "I I felt compelled to do at least one more. I think about how lucky I am to be able to run, and I will never take it for granted." He proudly wore a Boston Strong shirt for the Arizona Rock 'n' Roll Marathon in January 2014. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Still running a year after Boston Still running for Boston – "Running has been a stress relief for me, but this year meant a little more," said Boston resident Gina Berrettoni , who knew several people who were running last year's Boston Marathon. Thankfully, none of her friends were injured. She has run several races since the attack, including a 10K, a half-marathon and a relay. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Still running a year after Boston Still running for Boston – "The running community is one of the most supportive, nonjudgmental and uplifting I have ever had the pleasure to be a part of," said Heather Nees , left, of Chesterfield, Virginia. Since pledging to "Run for Boston," she has completed two 5K's and an 8K, with another 5K coming up. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Still running a year after Boston Still running for Boston – "The tight muscles -- the little aches and pains -- remind me that I'm alive," said Lori Brainard of Washington. She started running in 2004, but had been on a hiatus. Brainard, who grew up in Somerville, Massachusetts, signed up for her first race after the Boston Marathon bombing. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Still running a year after Boston Still running for Boston – "I wanted to do something after the bombings, but didn't know what I could do," said runner Robyn Parker , right, of New Hampshire. She was inspired to break her every-other-year marathon schedule. She ran the Rock 'n' Roll San Antonio Marathon in November alongside her daughter, Meredith. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Still running a year after Boston Still running for Boston – "I am still not a strong runner, but I knew I had to finish this race to honor all the people affected by the Boston tragedy," said Ezra Mueller , right, who ran the 25 kilometer "Big Berlin" race in Germany in May with a "Run for Boston" on her back. "With the support of the other runners loudly cheering me on. I dragged myself across the finish." Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Still running a year after Boston Still running for Boston – "Like so many runners, after that day, I felt helpless, betrayed and full of emotion," said Agata Jasniewski from Massapequa Park, New York. She was already planning to run the Chicago Marathon in 2013, but after the bombing it became "more than a race," she said. Hide Caption 11 of 11JUST WATCHED A year later for victim's families Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A year later for victim's families 04:48"In the process of rendering that safe, we noticed a second backpack off to the side," Halstead said. "Nobody claimed ownership of it. At that time, that bag was rendered safe."Halstead said his officers are ready for this year's marathon. In Tuesday's incident, he said, the "training kicked in.""I have utmost praise for my officer," Halstead said. "That's what he's trained to do, that's what he did, and that's why I'm proud of the guys of this department."A massive enterpriseThis year's marathon will be a massive enterprise.The race will have 9,000 more runners than last year. More spectators than ever before will also line the course, according to the Boston Athletic Association.Keeping that in mind, police will double the number of officers on patrol from last year, with 3,500 scattered among the crowd. They will be aided by 100 additional security cameras and bomb-sniffing dogs."In this world, you never eliminate risk; you never bring it down to zero," State Police Col. Timothy Alben told reporters last month. "But we are working very hard at reducing that risk level and managing it to the best of our collective abilities."Authorities have not disclosed how much the extra security will cost. All they will offer is that it will be "much greater" than last year's cost.But this year's race will also reap millions of dollars. According to the Greater Boston Convention & Visitors Bureau, the marathon and related events will bring in an estimated $175.8 million -- the highest-ever amount for a Boston Marathon.