If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) Oh, that Boeing jet, sunken off the coast of Bahrain? Don't worry. It's just part of a new underwater theme park . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Government shutdownThe great State of the Union Skirmish of 2019 is over. But the war over the government shutdown rolls on. President Trump gave in to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi late last night and agreed not to give the State of the Union address until after the shutdown is over. Earlier in the day, Trump had tried to force Pelosi's hand by insisting he would give the speech next week in the House chamber, despite her concerns about security due to the shutdown. She responded by refusing to bring up for a vote the resolution that would allow Trump to speak. That caught the White House off guard and, after mulling a few alternatives they didn't really like, the President and his team backed down.2. VenezuelaJUST WATCHED Why are people protesting in Venezuela? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why are people protesting in Venezuela? 02:293. Florida bank killingsAt least five people were shot to death in a bank in central Florida. Police say a 21-year-old man entered a SunTrust Bank in Sebring, about 85 miles south of Orlando, and started shooting before barricading himself in the bank. It's not clear if the victims were bank employees or customers. The suspect, Zephen Xaver, later surrendered and was arrested. There's no word on a motive. The suspect's father said he was "heartbroken," both for the victims and his son.JUST WATCHED Gunman kills multiple people at a Florida bank Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Gunman kills multiple people at a Florida bank 00:454. Vegetative state birthA nurse is suspected to be the person who impregnated a woman in a vegetative state in a Phoenix health care facility. The woman, 29, unexpectedly gave birth last month. The nurse, 36-year-old Nathan Sutherland, was caring for the woman at the Hacienda HealthCare facility. He's charged with one count of sexual assault and one count of vulnerable adult abuse. Sutherland's DNA matched the baby's DNA, police said. This is a nightmare situation that lots of people worry about. Here's how you can protect a loved one from sexual assault or abuse in a nursing home or health care facility.JUST WATCHED Police: We owed this arrest to the baby Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police: We owed this arrest to the baby 02:155. PlasticsSome of the world's largest consumer-goods companies are trying to tackle the globe's plastics problem by offering people an alternative to recycling . Procter & Gamble, Nestlé, PepsiCo and others are partnering on a project called Loop, in which their products, like detergents and shampoos, would all be sold in reusable packaging. After using the products, customers put the empty containers in a Loop tote on their doorstep. The containers are then picked up by a delivery service, cleaned and refilled, then shipped back out to consumers. Details of this innovation will be announced today at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. You can follow live Davos updates here.JUST WATCHED Top statistic of 2018: Most plastic not recycled Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Top statistic of 2018: Most plastic not recycled 07:16TODAY'S QUOTES"This is a time where Mr. Cohen had to put his family and their safety first."Lanny Davis, announcing his client, ex-Trump fixer Michael Cohen, is Attorney, announcing his client, ex-Trump fixer Michael Cohen, is postponing his public congressional testimony , scheduled for February 7, citing "ongoing threats against his family" from the President.JUST WATCHED Speier on Trump and Cohen: Feels like 'The Godfather' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Speier on Trump and Cohen: Feels like 'The Godfather' 01:43"(It's so quiet) I can hear my eyelids blink."person hiding in a hotel complex in Kenya during last week's terror attack that left 21 people dead. During the attack, a Red Cross volunteer A message from aduring last week's terror attack that left 21 people dead. During the attack, a Red Cross volunteer put together a WhatsApp group chat for those trapped in the hotel.JUST WATCHED Ex-al-Shabaab fighter recognizes familiar face in hotel Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ex-al-Shabaab fighter recognizes familiar face in hotel 03:44BREAKFAST BROWSELike father, like sonThe late James Gandolfini's son, Michael Gandolfini, will play a young Tony Soprano in an upcoming "Sopranos" movie prequel.JUST WATCHED 'Sopranos' actor's son to play 'Tony' in prequel Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Sopranos' actor's son to play 'Tony' in prequel 00:40Mama's songCongrats to singer Carrie Underwood. The country music superstar gave birth this week to a sonJUST WATCHED See Carrie Underwood announce second pregnancy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See Carrie Underwood announce second pregnancy 00:38Pack your bags ... and a spacesuitReady to go to space? Blue Origin, Jeff Bezo's rocket company, says it's on track to start taking tourists to the edge of the atmosphere in about six months.Holy high techCheck out the cool new helmets the guards at the Vatican wear. They were produced by 3D printersTHIS JUST IN ...Stepping upMalaysia has a new king . Sultan Abdullah Sultan Ahmad Shah was named the new ruler after the shock abdication this month of Sultan Muhammad V.Stepping downCarlos Ghosn resigned as chairman and CEO of Renault . Ghosn, the ex-Nissan chief who is in jail in Japan, is fighting financial misconduct charges.TODAY'S NUMBERS$25,000JUST WATCHED Closs 911 operator: Nothing has affected me like this Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Closs 911 operator: Nothing has affected me like this 01:42$1 millionThe amount of revenue that the Smithsonian museums are losing each week because of the partial government shutdownJUST WATCHED The Smithsonian's newest guide is a robot Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The Smithsonian's newest guide is a robot 02:09AND FINALLYSo slow