(CNN) The pleas on GoFundMe come from people across all walks of life. A single mom. A librarian. A Border Patrol agent. Even an artist.But their stories all have something in common: They reveal the human toll of the partial government shutdown that's now the longest in US history.In recent days more than 1,500 campaigns have been set up on the crowdfunding site by furloughed government employees looking for help, GoFundMe spokeswoman Katherine Cichy told CNN. Together, the campaigns so far have raised more than $300,000.People line up to board a ferry to visit the Statue of Liberty on December 22. The national landmark remained open after New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo made funding available for it.People line up to board a ferry to visit the Statue of Liberty on December 22. The national landmark remained open after New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo made funding available for it.Two people stand in front of the Lincoln Memorial on Saturday, December 22. Many of the National Mall sights remained open despite the shutdown.Two people stand in front of the Lincoln Memorial on Saturday, December 22. Many of the National Mall sights remained open despite the shutdown.This photo, taken on Tuesday, January 1, shows the South Rim of Grand Canyon National Park in Arizona. While parts of the park were closed because of the shutdown, much of its South Rim was open and accessible.This photo, taken on Tuesday, January 1, shows the South Rim of Grand Canyon National Park in Arizona. While parts of the park were closed because of the shutdown, much of its South Rim was open and accessible.Garbage overflows from a trash can on the National Mall, across from the White House, on Tuesday, January 1. The National Park Service, which is responsible for trash removal, was not operating because of the government shutdown.Garbage overflows from a trash can on the National Mall, across from the White House, on Tuesday, January 1. The National Park Service, which is responsible for trash removal, was not operating because of the government shutdown.A child looks inside the National Museum of African American History, which was closed because of the shutdown.A child looks inside the National Museum of African American History, which was closed because of the shutdown.A woman and her child visit the tower deck at the National Gallery of Art in Washington on Wednesday, January 2. It was scheduled to close the next day because of the shutdown.A woman and her child visit the tower deck at the National Gallery of Art in Washington on Wednesday, January 2. It was scheduled to close the next day because of the shutdown.A donation box sits on the counter at the Ernest F. Coe Visitor Center in Florida's Everglades National Park. Dany Garcia, center, was being paid by the Florida National Parks Association to work in the center during the partial government shutdown.A donation box sits on the counter at the Ernest F. Coe Visitor Center in Florida's Everglades National Park. Dany Garcia, center, was being paid by the Florida National Parks Association to work in the center during the partial government shutdown.A pedestrian in Arlington, Virginia, climbs over a fence leading to Theodore Roosevelt Island, which was closed because of the government shutdown on Sunday, January 6.A pedestrian in Arlington, Virginia, climbs over a fence leading to Theodore Roosevelt Island, which was closed because of the government shutdown on Sunday, January 6.Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi delivered a rebuttal after Trump's speech. "President Trump must stop holding the American people hostage, must stop manufacturing a crisis and must reopen the government," Pelosi said.Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi delivered a rebuttal after Trump's speech. "President Trump must stop holding the American people hostage, must stop manufacturing a crisis and must reopen the government," Pelosi said.President Trump gives a prime-time address about border security on January 8. In his Oval Office address, Trump warned of "a growing humanitarian and security crisis at our southern border."President Trump gives a prime-time address about border security on January 8. In his Oval Office address, Trump warned of "a growing humanitarian and security crisis at our southern border."A tourist in Philadelphia takes a picture through a window of the closed building housing the Liberty Bell on January 8.A tourist in Philadelphia takes a picture through a window of the closed building housing the Liberty Bell on January 8.Federal Aviation Administration employee Michael Jessie, who was working without pay as an aviation safety inspector, holds a sign Tuesday, January 8, while attending a news conference at Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey.Federal Aviation Administration employee Michael Jessie, who was working without pay as an aviation safety inspector, holds a sign Tuesday, January 8, while attending a news conference at Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey.Tables sit empty during dinnertime at Rocket City Tavern, located near numerous federal agencies in Huntsville, Alabama, on January 9. Business at the restaurant had been down since the shutdown began.Tables sit empty during dinnertime at Rocket City Tavern, located near numerous federal agencies in Huntsville, Alabama, on January 9. Business at the restaurant had been down since the shutdown began.House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer holds a quote from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell as he speaks to the media on January 9.House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer holds a quote from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell as he speaks to the media on January 9.Katie Barron stands in her kitchen while working from home in Madison, Alabama, on Wednesday, January 9. Barron works for a private company not connected to the government, but her husband is a National Weather Service meteorologist who was forced to work without pay because his job is classified as essential.Katie Barron stands in her kitchen while working from home in Madison, Alabama, on Wednesday, January 9. Barron works for a private company not connected to the government, but her husband is a National Weather Service meteorologist who was forced to work without pay because his job is classified as essential.A protester holds a sign during a rally in Washington on January 10. Around 800,000 federal workers were out of work or were working without pay because of the shutdown.A protester holds a sign during a rally in Washington on January 10. Around 800,000 federal workers were out of work or were working without pay because of the shutdown.Trump is joined by US Sens. John Cornyn, left, and Ted Cruz as he visits the US-Mexico border near Mission, Texas, on Thursday, January 10. Trump, surrounded by border patrol agents, said: "We need security. We need the kind of backup they want."Federal workers and contractors rally against the government shutdown outside the AFL-CIO headquarters in Washington on Thursday, January 10.Federal workers and contractors rally against the government shutdown outside the AFL-CIO headquarters in Washington on Thursday, January 10.Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington appears empty from the observation deck of the Old Post Office Tower on Friday, January 11.Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington appears empty from the observation deck of the Old Post Office Tower on Friday, January 11.Trump displays fast food for Clemson University's football team to celebrate its national championship at the White House on January 14. The administration said Trump paid for the meal after much of the White House residence staff, including chefs, were furloughed.Security lines at Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport back up Monday, January 14, causing some travelers to miss their flights. Officers with the Transportation Security Administration had been working without pay.Security lines at Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport back up Monday, January 14, causing some travelers to miss their flights. Officers with the Transportation Security Administration had been working without pay.US Rep. Jahana Hayes, D-Connecticut, holds a letter January 16 that was delivered to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's office, urging the Senate to act on House-passed legislation to reopen the government.US Rep. Jahana Hayes, D-Connecticut, holds a letter January 16 that was delivered to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's office, urging the Senate to act on House-passed legislation to reopen the government.A portion of a letter that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi sent to President Trump on January 16 asks him to postpone his upcoming State of the Union address until the government reopens.US President Donald Trump announces a proposal to end the shutdown on Saturday, January 19. In exchange for $5.7 billion for wall funding, Trump offered temporary protection from deportations for some undocumented immigrants. Democrats swiftly rejected the proposal.US Coast Guard families receive free groceries during a food giveaway in Novato, California, on Saturday, January 19. Thousands of active-duty Coast Guard members weren't getting paid during the shutdown. The Coast Guard is the only military branch under the Department of Homeland Security.US Coast Guard families receive free groceries during a food giveaway in Novato, California, on Saturday, January 19. Thousands of active-duty Coast Guard members weren't getting paid during the shutdown. The Coast Guard is the only military branch under the Department of Homeland Security.Chef Joshua Wiggins cuts portions of meatloaf for furloughed federal workers in Red Bank, New Jersey, on Monday, January 21. The free lunch was served at JBJ Soul Kitchen, the restaurant of rock star Jon Bon Jovi.Chef Joshua Wiggins cuts portions of meatloaf for furloughed federal workers in Red Bank, New Jersey, on Monday, January 21. The free lunch was served at JBJ Soul Kitchen, the restaurant of rock star Jon Bon Jovi.Vickie Martin, president of the American Federation of Government Workers Local 1438, reacts to the locked door of US Sen. Mitch McConnell's office in Lexington, Kentucky, during a January 23 protest.Vickie Martin, president of the American Federation of Government Workers Local 1438, reacts to the locked door of US Sen. Mitch McConnell's office in Lexington, Kentucky, during a January 23 protest.The Capitol at sunset on Thursday, January 24, after the Senate rejected Democratic and Republican proposals for ending the shutdown.The Capitol at sunset on Thursday, January 24, after the Senate rejected Democratic and Republican proposals for ending the shutdown.Furloughed government workers protest against the shutdown on Capitol Hill on Wednesday, January 23. As the shutdown dragged on, more federal employees were called back to work -- without pay -- to keep key things running smoothly.Furloughed government workers protest against the shutdown on Capitol Hill on Wednesday, January 23. As the shutdown dragged on, more federal employees were called back to work -- without pay -- to keep key things running smoothly.The air traffic control tower at New York's LaGuardia Airport on January 25. The Federal Aviation Administration reported delays in air travel because of a "slight increase in sick leave" at two East Coast air traffic control facilities.The air traffic control tower at New York's LaGuardia Airport on January 25. The Federal Aviation Administration reported delays in air travel because of a "slight increase in sick leave" at two East Coast air traffic control facilities.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi signs the deal to reopen the government on January 25. Democrats insisted throughout the shutdown that Trump should sign a measure to reopen the government before any border security negotiations could begin.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi signs the deal to reopen the government on January 25. Democrats insisted throughout the shutdown that Trump should sign a measure to reopen the government before any border security negotiations could begin.President Donald Trump announces a deal to reopen the government on Friday, January 25. He agreed to a temporary funding measure through February 15 that allows federal employees to return to work. The deal did not include the border wall funding that Trump had demanded.President Donald Trump announces a deal to reopen the government on Friday, January 25. He agreed to a temporary funding measure through February 15 that allows federal employees to return to work. The deal did not include the border wall funding that Trump had demanded.Many of the campaigns started popping up in early January, after it became clear that federal workers affected by the shutdown might start missing paychecks.People are asking for help to pay their rent or mortgage, to buy food or even purchase diapers for their infant children.'We're just surviving'Anna Cory, a furloughed research librarian for the Environmental Protection Agency, said the shutdown has caused financial difficulties that make her feel like her life is in limbo."It is difficult. I was just recently engaged on January 2. My fiance and I were planning to buy a house," she told CNN. "Just recently we started house shopping. But we've put that on hold because the bank does not take a friendly eye to seeing a zero on one's pay stub."The North Carolina woman hopes to use the money from her GoFundMe campaign to buy gas and groceries.She also started a "government shutdown online yard sale" on her Facebook page to raise funds."So right now we're just surviving. We're not thriving," Cory said. "We're not joining the middle class and achieving our dream of home ownership or moving forward with wedding planning because it's an uncertain situation."So how does GoFundMe guard against fraud? Emergencies like this bring out the generosity in people, which in turn attracts scammers off all kinds.Cichy said GoFundMe has put together a special team to monitor and vet campaigns set up by federal workers."We have a dedicated Trust and Safety team reviewing all campaigns related to the government shutdown," she said. "We deploy proprietary technical tools and have multiple processes in place to verify the identity of campaign organizers and the beneficiary of the campaign. Before money is transferred, an individual's information, including their banking information, must be verified by our payment processor."Cichy said the platform is also backed by a GoFundMe Guarantee , which promises that funds go to the right place or donors will get a refund.'I am my family's only source of income'The reasons why federal workers are setting up GoFundMe campaigns are as varied as the people behind them.Jo Ann Goodlow of Phoenix, Arizona, said she needs funds to support her three children, including two young relatives she adopted."I adopted them to give them a better life that their biological parents couldn't provide. Now I feel like I'm failing them because the stable home that I have provided for them is now at risk," she said on her campaign pageNafis White is an artist who was supposed to be taking part in a National Parks Service artist-in-residency program at a historic site this month in New Bedford, Massachusetts, but it was put on hold after the shutdown began. She's asking for $3,000, which is a little more than the monthly stipend the residency would have covered."Excited to begin in January, I was horrified along with the hundreds of thousands of people impacted upon learning that the shutdown was to commence," she said on her campaign page . "All National Park Artist residencies have been halted, and this unexpected situation is proving to be financially challenging for me, as it is for all government employees and adjacent workers."White said she's getting by right now with the help of family and friends. For now she's staying in a "humble" apartment and has converted one room into a art studio to continue her work. She says it's very important that she reach the financial goal for her campaign."So far, thankfully I have the support of enough great people that I will be able to keep my housing for February, buy groceries and pay some bills," she told CNN. "Reaching my goal means that I will be able to survive through March at a very basic level of subsistence. Not making that goal means I could potentially lose my housing, get behind in bill payments and become food insecure."Kevin Garfinkle of Pembroke Pines, Florida, works for the TSA. He's seeking money to get the basics for his young family, like diapers."I am my family's only source of income and due to the partial government shutdown I will not be receiving a paycheck until the government reopens, which means bills will go unpaid but more so than that I will be unable to buy groceries or diapers for my family," he said on his page , which includes a photo of two young children. "This is not something I ask lightly."The federal employees on GoFundMe have something else in common: The main thing they all want is for the government shutdown to end."We just want to get back to work," Cory said.