If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Want to wield the world's most powerful passport? Then you better head east . Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Jayme ClossJayme Closs is alive. The missing Wisconsin teen was found yesterday in a town about 66 miles north of where she was last seen 87 days ago . Jayme, 13, vanished in October after her parents were found shot to death in their home. A suspect is in custody. We expect more details when authorities hold a news conference this morning. A woman out walking her dog said Jayme, with unkempt hair and oversized shoes, walked right up to her and asked for help, the Minneapolis Star Tribune reported. The woman said she recognized Jayme immediately. They rushed to a nearby home and called police. While they waited, Jayme declined an offer of food and played with a puppy instead.Closs' aunt: I just cannot believe thisCloss' aunt: I just cannot believe this 00:42Closs' aunt: I just cannot believe this2. Government shutdownThe partial government shutdown is now three weeks old and, if it lasts into tomorrow, would be the longest shutdown in US history. Here's where things stand:Shutdown pain hits home for many federal employees, who will experience their first missed paycheck today.• Federal employees have protested the shutdown in Washington, Atlanta, Utah and other places.• Miami's airport will close one terminal early for three days because of TSA absences.• A deal GOP senators worked on to end the shutdown fell apart• President Trump says he's close to declaring an emergency over the border, which would allow him to use Defense Department funds to build the border wall. Those funds might come from disaster aid money meant for Puerto Rico, Texas and other areas.JUST WATCHED Where can't you travel during the shutdown? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Where can't you travel during the shutdown? 02:353. Michael CohenGo ahead and mark down this date: February 7. That's when Michael Cohen, President Trump's former lawyer and ex-fixer, will testify publicly before the House oversight committee. This will be must-see TV. Will Cohen divulge any new info on the hush-money payments made on Trump's behalf to women who allege affairs with him? Don't forget, those payments became the basis for the campaign finance violations that Cohen pleaded guilty to. Cohen goes to prison in March for these crimes, which prosecutors say Trump told Cohen to commit. And, of course, we'll want to hear what Cohen has to say about the Russia investigationJUST WATCHED Bash on Cohen to testify: This is Shakespearean Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bash on Cohen to testify: This is Shakespearean 02:224. ChinaOne of America's largest universities warns students and faculty not to use social media and messaging apps while in China. The University of California specifically says not to use WhatsApp and WeChat over fear Chinese authorities might use what's in those communications against them. There have been several cases in recent weeks of Western travelers being detained in China on what some consider politically motivated allegations and charges. The moves could be China's way of striking back at the West after the December arrest of Chinese tech executive Meng Wanzhou . Meng, who was detained in Canada at the request of US authorities, still faces possible extradition to the US on suspicion of violating US sanctions against Iran.JUST WATCHED Why the arrest of Huawei's CFO matters Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why the arrest of Huawei's CFO matters 01:255. Fertility rateWe're not having enough babies here in the US to replace the population. That's the finding of a new report from the National Center for Health Statistics, which found that the fertility rate for the US in 2017 continued to dip below what's needed for the population to replace itself. The rate in 2017 was 1,765.5 per 1,000 women -- 16% below what's needed for population replacement, the report said. South Dakota and Utah were the only states that had rates above replacement level. About 3.8 million babies were born in the US in 2017, the lowest number of births in 30 yearsJUST WATCHED 5 myths about getting pregnant Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 5 myths about getting pregnant 01:45BREAKFAST BROWSEGuess their divorce was really amicableGwyneth Paltrow went on her honeymoon with husband Brad Falchuk -- and ex-husband Chris Martin tagged along , because celebs ARE NOT like the rest of us.We're doomedThat irritating "Baby Shark" song is now a Top 40 hit , and Western civilization is officially over.JUST WATCHED Video goes viral of toddler frustrated with Alexa Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video goes viral of toddler frustrated with Alexa 01:06Safe and soundbarefoot baby walking around Milwaukee in the freezing cold was rescued by a bus driver.JUST WATCHED Watch bus driver rescue lost baby near freeway Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch bus driver rescue lost baby near freeway 01:08But of course'Veggie' BellTaco Bell will start testing out a vegetarian menu , and the rest of us meat-eaters are left to wonder why.JUST WATCHED Taco Bell testing out veggie options Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Taco Bell testing out veggie options 00:53TOTAL RECALLQuiz timeActress Emma Stone yelled out this when Sandra Oh made a joke about "whitewashing" at the Golden Globes.A. "Don't worry about it!"B. "I had no idea!"C. "I'm sorry!"D. "Let's do lunch!"Play " Total Recall: The CNN news quiz " to see if you're right. And don't forget, you can also find a version of the quiz on your Amazon devices. Just say, "Alexa, ask CNN for a quiz."TODAY'S NUMBER277The number of passengers and crew aboard a Royal Caribbean cruise ship who got sick with a gastrointestinal illnes s. The ship returns to Florida on Saturday, a day earlier than expected.TODAY'S QUOTE"We wish they had confiscated her phone instead of her passport."Abdalelah Mohammed A. al-Shuaibi, after Saudi teen Rahaf Mohammed al-Qunun fled to Thailand to escape her allegedly abusive family. Qunun used her phone to post about her plight on social media, and now she's been Saudi Arabian official, after Saudi teen Rahaf Mohammed al-Qunun fled to Thailand to escape her allegedly abusive family. Qunun used her phone to post about her plight on social media, and now she's been granted asylum in AustraliaJUST WATCHED Saudi teen granted stay in Thailand Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Saudi teen granted stay in Thailand 02:06AND FINALLYRing my bell