(CNN) It's the first day of fall, y'all! We hope you have a positively autumnal weekend. But first, here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. North KoreaIt's not just the specific nuclear threat that's unusual here, it's the fact that it was issued in part by Kim Jong Un himself. Experts say it's the first time the North Korean dictator has issued this kind of first-person commentary. Oh, and he clearly took Trump's word personally. In a direct statement delivered on camera, Kim said Trump would "pay dearly" for the threats and that he "will consider with seriousness exercising of a corresponding, highest level of hard-line countermeasure in history.""I am now thinking hard about what response he could have expected when he allowed such eccentric words to trip off his tongue," Kim said. "I will surely and definitely tame the mentally deranged US dotard with fire."JUST WATCHED North Korea's illicit money-making businesses Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North Korea's illicit money-making businesses 02:272. FacebookFacebook's position in the Russian investigation is getting even more uncomfortable. The social media behemoth will hand over information about 3,000 ads it sold to Russian-linked accounts to the House and Senate intelligence committees, founder Mark Zuckerberg said Thursday. Earlier this month, Facebook admitted to selling ads to accounts linked to a Russian troll farm between 2015 and 2017.JUST WATCHED Facebook to hand over Russian ads to Congress Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Facebook to hand over Russian ads to Congress 01:573. EarthquakeJUST WATCHED Mexico: All children accounted for in school Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mexico: All children accounted for in school 01:254. CTECTE is a neurodegenerative brain disease with Alzheimer's-like symptoms, including memory loss, confusion, aggression, rage and, at times, suicidal behavior. It is believed to result from repeated trauma to the head, the kind of trauma NFL players experience regularly.Shayanna Jenkins Hernandez, Hernandez's fiancée, filed a federal lawsuit Thursday seeking $20 million against the National Football League and New England Patriots on behalf of the couple's daughter, Avielle.JUST WATCHED Insight into last hours of Hernandez's life Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Insight into last hours of Hernandez's life 02:475. Hurricane MariaAfter devastating the US commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Hurricane Maria is tracking toward the Turks and Caicos Islands , and then may threaten the Bahamas. The Category 3 storm is not as strong as Irma was when it hit the area more than two weeks ago. Still, Maria's effects have been calamitous . Residents on the island of Dominica say the verdant rain forest trees there have been completely stripped, leaving a desolate brown wasteland. In addition to the physical destruction, Caribbean nations are now facing a difficult recovery, both on an economic and human scale.JUST WATCHED Dominica knocked to its knees by Maria Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dominica knocked to its knees by Maria 02:09BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Trix cereal is bringing back artificial flavors after complaintsHow DARE Trix taste like How DARE Trix taste like something that actually came from the earthAvril Lavigne named "most dangerous celebrity" onlineNo offense to the singer's street cred, but No offense to the singer's street cred, but "dangerous" means something a little different in this case.Soon, all of Hong Kong's dolphins will be deadWhich is especially worrisome, because Which is especially worrisome, because they look awesomeWHAT'S FOR LUNCH?Here's what's coming up this weekend:German elections are this Sunday. Oh, you're not German and think it doesn't matter to you? Here's why it doesAND FINALLY ...Pumpkin carving is just around the corner!