(CNN) If you're waking up to good weather this morning, spare a thought for those who are staring down yet another storm. Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Hurricane Maria2. Georgia TechViolence erupted last night on the campus of the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta after a vigil for a student shot and killed by police. Attendees at the vigil for Scout Schultz said the short, initial gathering ended quietly, and later a separate gathering developed with chanting, marching and, ultimately, confrontations at the campus police headquarters.Schultz, identified as an LGBTQ student with possible psychological needs, was shot Saturday night after campus police responded to a 911 call about a person holding a knife and possibly a gun. Cell phone video showed police repeatedly telling Schultz to put a knife down. Schultz took a few steps forward, and police opened fire. It was Schultz who made the 911 call that led to the deadly encounter , the Georgia Bureau of Investigation said.JUST WATCHED Violent protests erupt on Georgia Tech campus Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Violent protests erupt on Georgia Tech campus 00:483. Paul ManafortSome of the intelligence collected includes communications that sparked concerns among investigators that Manafort had encouraged the Russians to help with the campaign , according to three sources familiar with the investigation. Two of these sources, however, cautioned that the evidence is not conclusive.JUST WATCHED Manafort wiretapped under secret court orders Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Manafort wiretapped under secret court orders 06:214. RohingyaIf you're not familiar with the plight of Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar , just know the story is likely to get more attention as world leaders and thinkers weigh in.The Rohingya are an ancient community in Myanmar, and they currently make up the largest group of stateless people in the world . They've always been at risk, but a recent increase in violence has claimed more than 1,000 lives since the end of August and has forced hundreds of thousands of civilians to seek refuge in neighboring Bangladesh.Back to the "world leaders weighing in" part: Myanmar's de facto leader, Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, has been criticized for her silence on the matter, and even after she addressed the crisis today, her speech was called "disingenuous" by detractors.JUST WATCHED Myanmar's Suu Kyi addresses Rohingya crisis Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Myanmar's Suu Kyi addresses Rohingya crisis 03:225. ObamacareThe catch? Last month, the Senate's parliamentarian told the budget committee that the Senate only had until September 30 to repeal Obamacare with a simple majority. So, if they want to do it the easy way, the clock is definitely ticking.JUST WATCHED What's in Graham-Cassidy health care bill? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What's in Graham-Cassidy health care bill? 04:09BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.'Grey's Anatomy' actress Kate Walsh reveals she had a brain tumorToys 'R' Us files for bankruptcy protectionWatch this passenger jet drift in high winds left by IrmaJUST WATCHED See passenger jet drift in Irma's high winds Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See passenger jet drift in Irma's high winds 00:58Fluoride exposure in utero linked to lower IQ, study findsNerf guns can pose a serious eye risk, doctors warnWHAT'S FOR LUNCHHere's what's happening later.Harsh words expected for North Korea and IranPresident Trump make a major speech today to the United Nations . He will encourage nations to take responsibility for their own security while calling for collective action against (hint, hint) rogue nations.JUST WATCHED The times Donald Trump bashed the UN Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The times Donald Trump bashed the UN 01:33NUMBER OF THE DAY300 yearsJUST WATCHED Irma has left Barbuda uninhabitable Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Irma has left Barbuda uninhabitable 00:36AND FINALLY ...Meet your new motivational anthem