(CNN) After recent deadly collisions, there are new concerns over the readiness of the US Pacific fleet . Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Hurricane IrmaHistoric. Unprecedented. Devastating. No word seems strong enough to convey the damage that Irma has brought to the Caribbean. So far, the hurricane has killed nine people . About 95% of buildings on Barbuda are damaged. More than a million people don't have power in Puerto Rico. And there are still millions in this monster storm's pathWe still don't know if Irma will hit the US, but people are getting out of the way. In Florida , there's gridlock on the roads as people evacuate . Governors in North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia have declared states of emergency.And Irma, one of the strongest storms ever seen in the Atlantic, isn't alone out there. There are two other hurricanes -- Jose, out in the open Atlantic, and Katia, in the southern Gulf of Mexico. It's the first time since 2010 there have been three active hurricanes at the same time in the Atlantic Ocean. And we're only about halfway through the season2. President TrumpJUST WATCHED GOP official: Trump-Dems deal blindsided GOPers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH GOP official: Trump-Dems deal blindsided GOPers 04:113. Russia probeJUST WATCHED Facebook sold ads to Russian 'troll farm' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Facebook sold ads to Russian 'troll farm' 02:294. Same-sex marriageAustralia is going to hold a national vote on same-sex marriage . It will be a mail-in vote, and ballots will be sent to Australians starting next week. Voters have until November 7 to mail in their votes, and the final result will be revealed on November 15 -- but it won't be binding. Though a recent poll showed 63% of Australians supported same-sex marriage , domestic politics has stood in the way of making it legal. Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull has said he will introduce legislation to do just that if same-sex marriage is approved by voters, prompting several conservative politicians to promise to oppose it.5. Michael BennettHe won't stand for the national anthem before NFL games, and now football star Michael Bennett accuses the Las Vegas police of racially profiling him. Bennett, a defensive end with the Seattle Seahawks, said the cops put a gun near his head before handcuffing him after gunshots were heard following last month's Floyd Mayweather-Conor McGregor fight. Bennett says he was detained simply because he was black and in the area of the shooting, but Las Vegas police said race had nothing to do with it and that the officers had genuinely believed Bennett may have been involved in the shooting.JUST WATCHED NFLer: I'll protest anthem until we're equal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NFLer: I'll protest anthem until we're equal 01:52BREAKFAST BROWSEPeople are talking about these. Read up. Join in.Pass the BordeauxRichard Branson rode out Hurricane Irma in style -- on his own private island, in a wine cellar , playing games -- because that's how billionaires roll.Rap the voteWelcome to Atlanta, where the players play and rap stars moderate forums for mayoral candidates.Hey, ladiesFor the first time in more than three decades, the semifinals of the women's US Open will be an all-American affair.Coco Vandeweghe, Venus Williams, Madison Keys and Sloane StephensMakes you want to screamThe King of Pop is gone, but his music lives on. A new Michael Jackson album is due out in time for Halloween.Doughnuts and subs don't mix?A NASCAR driver reportedly lost his sponsorship with Subway after he handed out Dunkin' Donuts to race fans.QUOTE OF THE DAY"I'm a very good diaper guy, which I didn't know I would be"JUST WATCHED George and Amal Clooney welcome twins Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH George and Amal Clooney welcome twins 00:48NUMBER OF THE DAY200The number of Gap and Banana Republic stores that are closingAND FINALLY ...Cat vs. spider