Las Vegas (CNN) The last leg of O.J. Simpson's odyssey to freedom will cut through one of the grayest, most desolate stretches of America. Signposts suggest it will end at one of the country's most affluent green enclaves.As early as Sunday, the former professional football player who fell from grace will go over the terms and conditions of his parole with officials.Simpson will be driven south more than 400 miles from the Lovelock Correctional Center in Nevada through a vast stretch of relative emptiness to the High Desert Prison 45 minutes northwest of Las Vegas, where he's expected to be released -- nine years after he entered prison.Don't expect the 70-year-old parolee to become a recluse."He's not going to hide," said longtime friend Tom Scotto, who attended Simpson's parole hearing this summer. Simpson served nine years of a 33-year sentence for kidnapping and armed robbery in connection with a raid on memorabilia dealers in a Las Vegas hotel room.Simpson -- who wants to move to Florida -- will for now live in a gated residence with unspecified friends in a wealthy Las Vegas suburb, several associates told CNN. He'll have to meet a number of conditions set by the Nevada parole board."He's going to focus on kids, friends, his family and golf," Scotto said. "Maybe not the first day or second, but he is going to go out."Simpson's youngest children, Sydney and Justin, live in the Tampa Bay area. Their mother was Nicole Brown Simpson, his former wife in whose death he was acquitted more than two decades ago. Sources say daughter Arnelle lives in the Los Angeles area and son Jason calls Georgia home.Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson O.J. Simpson reacts after learning he was granted parole at Lovelock Correctional Center on Thursday, July 20, in Lovelock, Nevada. Simpson is serving a nine-to-33-year prison term for a 2007 armed robbery and kidnapping conviction. Click through the gallery to see moments from the notable life of the former football and media star. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson As a University of Southern California running back, Simpson accepts the Heisman Trophy in December 1968. Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Simpson, pictured in 1974, was a running back for the Buffalo Bills from 1969 to 1977. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Simpson with his wife, Marguerite Whitley, his daughter Arnelle and son Jason, circa 1974. The couple were married from 1967 to 1979. They had another daughter, Aaren, who died as a toddler in a drowning accident. Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Simpson in action during a Buffalo Bills game against the New York Jets. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Simpson married Nicole Brown Simpson in 1985. Here the couple appears at a Los Angeles nightclub around 1976. Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Coach Lou Sabin and O.J. Simpson Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Simpson branched out into acting. He appears with Bill Murray, left, Laraine Newman and Garrett Morris in a "Saturday Night Live" skit in 1978. Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson As a running back for the San Francisco 49ers, Simpson carries the ball against the Oakland Raiders during a preseason game circa 1978. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Simpson becomes a commentator on ABC's "Monday Night Football" in the mid-'80s. He appears with Joe Namath, left, and Frank Gifford. Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Simpson and his children attend Nicole Brown Simpson's funeral in June 1994. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Ronald Goldman was slain with Simpson's ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson on June 12, 1994. Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson In footage seen on TV screens around the world, police chase a white Ford Bronco with a fugitive Simpson inside on the Los Angeles freeways on June 17, 1994. The Bronco eventually returned to Simpson's home in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles, and he surrendered to police on murder charges in the deaths of his ex-wife and Ronald Goldman. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Simpson's mug shot after his arrest on murder charges. Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Fans leave signs of support outside Simpson's house in June 1994. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Lead defense attorney Johnnie Cochran Jr. and prosecutor Marcia Clark face off during a hearing in the murder trial that riveted a nation. Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson "If it doesn't fit, you must acquit" was defense attorney Cochran's mantra during the trial. Here, Simpson tries on a leather glove tied to the crime scene at his murder trial on June 15, 1995. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Simpson cheers with his attorneys F. Lee Bailey, left, and Johnnie Cochan Jr. on October 3, 1995, after being found not guilty of killing Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman. Though cleared of criminal charges, a civil jury later slapped the former football star with a $33 million wrongful death judgment, and attorneys for the Goldman family have doggedly pursued his assets. Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Simpson continued to encounter legal problems, including a "road rage" trial in the Miami area in October 2001. He was found not guilty on charges stemming from a traffic altercation with another motorist. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Simpson appears in court with attorneys Gabriel Grasso, left, and Yale Galanter before sentencing in the sports memorabilia case in December 2008 in Las Vegas. Simpson contended he was retrieving personal items that had been stolen from him and were being sold as memorabilia. He later accused Galanter of having a conflict of interest and failing to mount an effective defense. Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson The Palace Station hotel room, the scene of Simpson's reported confrontation with sports memorabilia dealers, is displayed on a monitor during Simpson's trial in September 2008. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Simpson embraces his sister, Carmelita Durio, while his friend Tom Scotto looks on in court after a guilty verdict was reached in October 2008. Simpson was convicted of leading a group of associates into a room at the Palace Station Hotel and Casino and using threats, guns and force to take back items from two dealers. Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: The rise and fall of O.J. Simpson Disgraced football star O.J. Simpson appears in court on May 13, 2013, seeking to get his robbery, assault and kidnapping convictions thrown out after spending more than four years in prison. He argued that bad legal advice led to his arrest and conviction in a confrontation with sports memorabilia dealers. His 2008 conviction came 13 years after his acquittal on murder charges in the deaths of ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman. Hide Caption 23 of 23During his years in prison, Simpson passed the time playing fantasy football, coaching softball, and, at least in the beginning, eating lots of junk food, according to guards and an inmate.Now, the man who said at his parole hearing that "I've done my time," apparently has new priorities."He's going to want to golf and there's no shortage of courses," said one Simpson insider. "He's going to want privacy, there's none in prison. He's going to want to sleep in his own bed. He's going to want to ..." the source chuckled. "Well, he hasn't done it in nine years."Rules restrict alcohol intake, other behaviorIt won't be all fun and games: Simpson won't have the liberty to consume alcohol in large quantities or hang out with ex-convicts.The Nevada Board of Parole rules bluntly state: "You shall not associate with convicted felons, persons who are engaged in criminal activity, or other persons with who your supervising officer instructs you not to associate."The rules forbid parolees from possessing guns and drugs in almost all cases. Alcohol abuse can get a parolee sent back to prison."You are permitted to consume alcoholic beverages but not to excess," the conditions of parole supervision read. "...you shall submit to a medically recognized test for blood/breath content. Test results of .08 alcohol or higher shall be sufficient proof of excess."While the parole board unanimously voted to free Simpson, he received bad marks on his parole risk assessment guideline, in the drug/alcohol abuse/abuse category, with the document citing Simpson for "frequent abuse, serious disruption of functioning."Simpson testified he had been drinking alcohol the day and night of the raid on memorabilia dealers that led to his arrest and conviction for kidnapping and armed robbery.Simpson will remain under public scrutinyA captain with the state Division of Parole and Probation declined to discuss specifics about Simpson's new life.Capt. Shawn Arruti said high-profile or celebrity cases create unusual interest.JUST WATCHED O.J. Simpson: I've lived a conflict-free life Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH O.J. Simpson: I've lived a conflict-free life 01:02"With the media and public watching, you basically have another set of eyes on these parolees all the time," he said. "Plus, it seems everyone has a camera on their phone."Of course, Simpson's release may not exactly follow the script. It's possible, for example, the Nevada Department of Corrections may change its plans for locations of the release. Release Sunday is unlikely, but it could come Monday or Tuesday."There are times due to concern for the safety of the inmate and or the public that arrangements are made to go explain terms and conditions offsite," Arruti told CNN. "Sometimes, arrangements are made to meet at the inmate's attorney's office."Simpson will have to meet parole conditions for five years.He still owes millions to Brown-Goldman familiesAn entire generation of Americans has come of age since Simpson seemed an almost inescapable public figure.He was acquitted in 1995 in the slayings of his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Ron Goldman, in Los Angeles. But Simpson wasn't off the hook after the not guilty verdict; the families of Goldman and Brown filed suit for wrongful death. In February 1997, Simpson was ordered to pay $33.5 million in damages.Most of that money has never been collected, although the families said they will continue to pursue payment from Simpson.Simpson reportedly has $5 million in contributions to a retirement plan run by the Screen Actors Guild, according to USA Today. Retirement income is protected from that judgment under federal law. There's Social Security and, of course, his football career affords him an NFL pension.Members of Simpson's inner circle say the plan is for Simpson to eventually move to Florida, where state law, experts say, provides him additional protections, making it easier to keep his house and other assets.In the meantime, he will live in a walled community that at night looks down on the blinking kaleidoscope of the famous Last Vegas Strip.During the day, Simpson can pass through the gate at the end of a palm-tree lined drive and perhaps take in 18 holes of golf.