(CNN) Rather than taking a knee, most NFL players opted for a show of unity Sunday, locking arms ahead of their games amid criticism from President Trump who slammed players opting to protest during the national anthem.Still, plenty opted to kneel during "The Star-Spangled Banner," with the Baltimore Ravens' Terrell Suggs and Tampa Bay Buccaneers' Mike Evans among the stars following the lead of former pro quarterback Colin Kaepernick , who pioneered the anthem protests last year over what he was said was social and racial injustice.Kaepernick, who has sat and knelt during the anthem, has said he refused to honor a song or "show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color." He also referenced the shootings of black men by police as one of reasons for his stance. "To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way," he told NFL Media . "There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder."Ahead of a Sunday morning game in London and afternoon games, players from several teams, including the New England Patriots, Jacksonville Jaguars, Cleveland Browns, the Denver Broncos and the Miami Dolphins, took knees during the anthem. With the exception of one player, the Pittsburgh Steelers didn't even take the field until the anthem was over. The Seattle Seahawks and Tennessee Titans also chose not to take the field for the national anthem.In Sunday morning tweets, Trump renewed his criticism of the protests, slamming the league's ratings and saying players should be fired or suspended for such protests. On Saturday, he called for NFL owners to fire any "son of a bitch" who "disrespects our flag.""What you just saw was a variety of responses with the theme of unity," an NFL front office source told CNN. "All across the league, owners, coaches and players came together to decide what was best for them."The source added, "If Trump thought he could divide the NFL, he was wrong."Following Sunday's 1 p.m. kickoffs, Trump tweeted that he approved of players locking arms, saying it represented "great solidarity" for the country.Here's who's been taking a stand Sunday:Washington Redskins vs. Oakland RaidersMember of the Washington Redskins stand arm-in-arm during national anthem before a game against the Oakland Raiders.Redskins players, including quarterback Kirk Cousins and defensive back Josh Norman, and owner Dan Snyder stood arm-in-arm. Several Redskins also knelt.Across FedEx Field, a number of Raiders sat with their arms locked before the prime time game."Football has always served as the great unifier, bringing people together to celebrate the values of courage, commitment and achievement," the Redskins said.NBC's Michele Tafoya said the Raiders head coach, Jack Del Rio, told her the team wanted to stay in the locker room during the anthem but couldn't. The team would have forfeited the coin toss and be in danger of a 15 yard unsportsmanlike conduct penalty, she said.Tafoya said 12-year veteran Vernon Davis, a tight end with the Redskins, said he would visit the White House if he was invited, and he would tell the President that "we love the flag. Let's focus on solutions rather than attack those protesting."Cincinnati Bengals vs. Green Bay PackersGreen Bay Packers players, including quarterback Aaron Rodgers, stand with arms locked during the national anthem before their game against the Cincinnati Bengals.Packers starting quarterback Aaron Rogers and Bengals starting quarterback Andy Dalton were among the players on both teams who stood and locked their arms on their sidelines. Three Packers players also sat during the national anthem.Kansas City Chiefs vs. Los Angeles ChargersMembers off the Los Angeles Chargers lock arms in protest before a football game against the Kansas City Chiefs.A number of Chargers players stood with their arms interlocked and others sat. Some Chiefs players knelt, including linebacker Justin Houston who knelt towards the players bench"I believe in honoring the American flag and supporting all of those who sacrifices protect the many freedoms we have in this country, including the right to have differences of opinion," Chiefs Chairman and CEO Clark Hunt said in a statement.Seattle Seahawks vs. Tennessee TitansAn empty Tennessee Titans bench during the national anthem for their game with the Seahawks.The Seattle Seahawks and Tennessee Titans remained in their locker rooms during the national anthem."The players jointly decided this was the best course of action. Our commitment to the military and our community is resolute and the absence of our team for the national anthem shouldn't be misconstrued as unpatriotic," the Titans organization said in a statement.The Seahawks said the team made the decision together."We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country. Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms," the Seahawks players said in the statement.Titans cheerleaders were seen standing on the sidelines with hands over their hearts, like many fans in the stands.Meghan Linsey, a Nashville singer and runner-up on NBC's The Voice," sang the national anthem. On the last note, Linsey and her guitarist took a knee.Cleveland Browns vs. Indianapolis ColtsCleveland Browns players take a knee and join arms during a game against the Indianapolis Colts.Several Browns players locked arms. Some stood, while others knelt on the sideline. Colts players were also locked arm-in-arm while they stood or took a knee.New Orleans Saints vs. Carolina PanthersNew Orleans Saints players sit on the bench during the national anthem before a game against the Carolina Panthers.Several Saints players sat on the bench or knelt while others stood. Panthers starting quarterback Cam Newton and his teammates stood during the anthem.There was swift reaction to the actions of some Saints players. A restaurant in Chalmette, Louisiana, near New Orleans, refused to show the Saints game on television."Some of our local players chose to sit during the National Anthem, which will not be supported or praised at WOW," WOW Cafe & Wingery of St. Bernard wrote on its Facebook page.Denver Broncos vs. Buffalo BillsDenver Broncos Von Miller, left, and Brandon Marshall take a knee during the anthem before their game.Five-time Pro Bowl selection Von Miller was among several Broncos players who knelt, while Garett Bolles and Virgil Green stood with their fists in the air.Multiple Buffalo Bills players stood with their arms around each other, while some players knelt with their arms interlocked. Some of those who stood held the shoulders of other players.Bills running back LeSean McCoy stretched during the national anthem, according to local media reports.is ... acting like a jerk, angry and upset about NFL players protesting in a peaceful manner," McCoy said after the game, CNN affiliate "I can't stand and support something where our leader of this countryis ... acting like a jerk, angry and upset about NFL players protesting in a peaceful manner," McCoy said after the game, CNN affiliate WKBW reported.New England PatriotsMembers of the New England Patriots kneel before a game against the Houston Texans.While most players from both teams, Tom Brady among them, opted to lock arms, more than a dozen Patriots -- including running back James White, wide receiver Brandin Cooks and Pro Bowl cornerback Stephon Gilmore -- took knees.In the owner's suite above them, Patriots owner Robert Kraft stood with his hand over his heart.Miami Dolphins vs. New York JetsWide receiver Jarvis Landry stands among his kneeling Dolphins teammates Sunday.Jets head coach Todd Bowles and Dolphins owner Steve Ross both joined their teams, arms interlocked, before Sunday's AFC East showdown.On the Dolphins sideline, wide receiver Jarvis Landry stood during the anthem but locked arms with safety Maurice Smith and tight end Julius Thomas, both of whom knelt.Philadelphia EaglesPhiladelphia Eagles owner Jeff Lurie joins his players for the national anthem.As Eagles safety Malcolm Jenkins tweeted before the game , Philadelphia players locked their arms in unity. As a retired African-American serviceman, Petty Officer 1st Class Generald Wilson, belted out the anthem, Eagles CEO Jeff Lurie joined the team, locking arms with Jenkins on the sideline. Linebacker Mychal Kendricks opted not to join his team and stood off to the side during the anthem."Having spoken with our players, I can attest to the great respect they have for the national anthem and all it represents," Lurie wrote. "We ... firmly believe that in this difficult time of division and conflict, it is more important than ever for football to be a great unifier."Atlanta Falcons vs. Detroit LionsRico LaVelle closed out the national anthem on one knee Sunday.Team owners Arthur Blank of the Falcons and Martha Firestone Ford of the Lions joined their teams on the sidelines, locking arms with their players. Starting running back Ameer Abdullah was among at least eight LIons players taking a knee during the anthem.Detroit singer Rico Lavelle closed out his rendition of the anthem by taking a knee and holding his microphone aloft in his fist.Tampa Bay Buccaneers vs. Minnesota VikingsWide receivers DeSean Jackson, forefront, and Mike Evans take a knee before Sunday's game.While both teams locked arms along the sidelines, Buccaneers star wide receiver Mike Evans and his counterpart DeSean Jackson knelt with their hands over their hearts. Coach Dirk Kover stood with his hand over his heart. The crowd applauded once "The Star-Spangled Banner" concluded.Pittsburgh SteelersSteeler and ex-Army Ranger Alejandro Villanueva stands outside the tunnel during the national anthem.As coach Mike Tomlin promised, the Steelers didn't take the field for the national anthem. But offensive lineman Alejandro Villanueva, a former captain in the Army and ex-Ranger who did three tours in Afghanistan, stood in the tunnel, hand over heart, as the anthem played.Tomlin had said before the game his squad would remain in the locker room.Baltimore Ravens vs. Jacksonville JaguarsRetired Ravens linebacker Ray Lewis, in a sportcoat, joined his former team during Sunday's protest.Six-time Pro Bowler and Super Bowl champ Suggs was atop the list of Ravens players taking a knee before the game in London. Alongside him was retired Ravens legend Lewis, who locked arms with wide receiver Mike Wallace and linebacker C.J. Mosley.Other coaches and players locked arms during the anthem.At least a dozen Jaguars took knees during the anthem, including defensive standouts Calais Campbell and Jalen Ramsey, as well as their No. 4 draft pick, running back Leonard Fournette.Team owner Shad Khan joined his players in protest Sunday.The majority of players locked arms, as did the coaching staff and Pakistani-American team owner Shad Khan, who said in a statement that he met with team captains prior to the game to express his support."Our team and the National Football League reflects our nation, with diversity coming in many forms -- race, faith, our views and our goals," he said. "We have a lot of work to do, and we can do it, but the comments by the President make it harder. That's why it was important for us, and personally for me, to show the world that even if we may differ at times, we can and should be united in the effort to become better as people and a nation."