Story highlights New York's MTA will start suspending service before sustained winds of 39 mphVirginia's National Guard authorized to activate to 300 personnelEarly models show the hurricane could make landfall in D.C. region as early as MondayForecasters say it will more likely push farther north and hit the New York area by TuesdayAs a powerful mix of weather converged on the U.S. East Coast, residents across the region seemed to take the warnings with varying degrees of seriousness."It started yesterday afternoon when we started to see a rush from consumers for supplies like flashlights, hand-held radios and batteries," said Tom Collins Jr., a hardware store owner in Atlantic County, New Jersey. "And starting this morning, we've started selling plywood to contractors to help board up homes."In Manhattan, where forecasts of a direct hit from Hurricane Irene last year left the city largely unaffected, many residents seemed relatively confident about Hurricane Sandy and its aftereffects."Most seem to take the attitude of 'whatever happens, happens,'" said Jason Covell, who works at Nuthouse Hardware on Manhattan's East Side. "I don't think anybody's going crazy and buying sandbags."Still, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo on Friday declared a state of emergency in every county in expectation of the storm, while placing the National Guard on standby.Mayor Michael Bloomberg said the city's Metropolitan Transportation Authority would begin suspending service "before the arrival of sustained winds of 39 miles per hour or higher.""A major concern given this type of storm is the possibility of prolonged power outages, as you know," he said.As Sandy churned northward, forecasters warned of high winds, strong tides and heavy rain, as well as potential snow, saying the storm would be strengthened by its collision with a wintry storm moving from the west.Early forecasting models show the tropical weather could make landfall in the Washington region as early as Monday, though it will more likely push farther north and slam the New York metropolitan area by Tuesday.Eastern portions of Ohio and Pennsylvania could get snow, while heavy rains are expected to blast the Eastern Seaboard.In Maryland, Gov. Martin O'Malley declared a state of emergency in advance of the storm."I urge all Marylanders to review their family emergency plans, make sure their emergency supplies like batteries and water are fully stocked and to stay informed," he said.Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – View photos of New York recovering from impact. Atlantic City, New Jersey, resident Kim Johnson inspects the area around her apartment building, which flooded on Tuesday, October 30. Large sections of an old boardwalk also were destroyed by Superstorm Sandy. Nearly 11,000 people spent Monday night in 258 Red Cross-operated shelters across 16 states because of Sandy, the American Red Cross tells CNN. Hide Caption 1 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Cars float in a flooded parking area on Tuesday in the financial district of New York. Hide Caption 2 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A power line knocked over by a falling tree blocks a street on Tuesday in Chevy Chase, Maryland. Hide Caption 3 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Waves break next to an apartment building in Atlantic City, New Jersey, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 4 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Workers shovel debris from the streets in Ocean City, Maryland, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 5 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A U.S. Coast Guard helicopter flies over Central Park in New York City. Hide Caption 6 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A man jogs near a darkened Manhattan skyline on Tuesday after much of New York City lost electricity. Hide Caption 7 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Workers clear a tree blocking East 96th Street in Central Park in New York on Tuesday. Hide Caption 8 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Rising water rushes into an underground parking garage in New York's financial district on Monday, October 29. Hide Caption 9 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Taxis drive down a New York street where the power was out late Monday, October 29. Hide Caption 10 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A firefighter speaks to a colleague while surveying damage caused by Sandy on Monday in New York. Hide Caption 11 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Flooded cars line the streets of New York's financial district Monday night. Hide Caption 12 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A truck drives by a flooded gas station in the Gowanus section of Brooklyn on Monday. Hide Caption 13 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A flooded street is seen at nightfall during the storm on Monday in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Hide Caption 14 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Firefighters evaluate an apartment building in New York that had the front wall collapse during the storm on Monday. Hide Caption 15 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Heavy rains fall in Manhattan on Monday. Hide Caption 16 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – People walk through water on the beach near high tide Monday as Sandy approaches Atlantic City. Hide Caption 17 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Two men run down Foster Avenue while dodging high winds and waves from the storm on Monday in Marshfield, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 18 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – An emergency vehicle plows through floodwaters on Monday in Dewey Beach, Delaware. Hide Caption 19 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A person tries to cross the street during the storm on Monday in Atlantic City. Hide Caption 20 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A traffic sign warns motorists west of Philadelphia on Monday. Hide Caption 21 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A wall of water makes its way to shore as residents brave the storm Monday in Ocean City, Maryland. Hide Caption 22 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A downed tree and fallen power lines lie over homes Monday on Harvard Street in Garden City, New York. Hide Caption 23 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Two people shoot video along Brooklyn Heights' Promenade on Monday as Sandy approaches landfall. Hide Caption 24 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Work crews push sand from a roadway in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, due to storm surge related to flooding on Monday. Hide Caption 25 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Two women battle wind and rain with umbrellas in hand in Philadelphia on Monday. Hide Caption 26 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Kira Brizill leads family members as high tide and winds flood the street on Monday in Freeport, New York. Hide Caption 27 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – John Edgecombe II, who is homeless, takes refuge from the rain and wind at a bus stop in Ward Circle in Washington on Monday. Hide Caption 28 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Superstorm Sandy dumped a lot of rain, flooding a part of Greenpoint, Brooklyn Hide Caption 29 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A Pennsylvania Department of Transportation truck slowly drives on the Pennsylvania Turnpike as Sandy approaches Bensalem, Pennsylvania, on Monday. Hide Caption 30 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Buses at Frankford terminal in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, sit idle after Mayor Michael Nutter ordered that all city offices be closed Monday and Tuesday due to potential damage from Sandy. Hide Caption 31 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A woman walks down the promenade along the East River in New York City on Monday. Hide Caption 32 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Jillian Webb, left, and Arianna Corso are pelted by wind and sand on Lighthouse Beach in Chatham, Massachusetts, on Monday. Hide Caption 33 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Waves slam into the sea wall in Scituate, Massachusetts, on Monday. Hide Caption 34 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Chris Losordo carries his father, Vin, across a flooded road in Falmouth, Massachusetts, on Monday. Hide Caption 35 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A repair truck drives down a flooded street in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, on Monday. Hide Caption 36 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Superstorm Sandy dumped a lot of rain on West Side Highway in Manhattan, NY. Hide Caption 37 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Floodwaters cover the streets of Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, on Monday. Hide Caption 38 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Multiple waves hit the Cooper's Beach in Southampton, N.Y. Hide Caption 39 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Waves crash against a previously damaged pier in Atlantic City, New Jersey, as Hurricane Sandy approaches landfall on Monday. Hide Caption 40 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – High winds broke part of a crane boom on this building under construction in Manhattan, causing several nearby buildings to be evacuated. Hide Caption 41 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – An emergency vehicle drives down Cape May, New Jersey's flooded Ocean Avenue on Monday. Hide Caption 42 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A young boy runs along Rockaway Beach in the Queens, New York, on Monday. Hide Caption 43 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A woman examines her storm-damaged porch as heavy rain continues to pour in Winthrop, Massachusetts, on Monday. Hide Caption 44 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A lone figure makes his way down Seventh Street in Lindenhurst, New York, on Monday. Hide Caption 45 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – People brave high winds and waves in Winthrop, Massachusetts, as Hurricane Sandy moves up the coast on Monday. Hide Caption 46 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A tree felled by the storm blocks Kramer Drive in Lindenhurst, New York, on Monday. Hide Caption 47 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Waves crash over a street in Winthrop, Massachusetts, as Hurricane Sandy comes up the coast on Monday. Hide Caption 48 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A police vehicle drives through a flooded area in New York on Monday. Hide Caption 49 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – The New York skyline is seen from the bank of the East River on Monday. Hide Caption 50 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – People walk on the boardwalk in Ocean City, Maryland, on Monday. Hide Caption 51 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A man stands on the beach as heavy waves pound the shoreline Monday in Cape May, New Jersey. Hide Caption 52 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – The dome of the U.S. Capitol building is seen through a window as heavy rain hits Washington on Monday. Hide Caption 53 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A member of the press takes a photo of a flooded street on Monday in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Hide Caption 54 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A man takes a picture of the storm with his phone from the boardwalk in Ocean City, Maryland, on Monday. Hide Caption 55 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A man stands on the sidewalk Monday as a vehicle drives up a flooded street in Atlantic City. Hide Caption 56 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – The Hudson River comes over the sea wall along the West Side Promenade in the Battery Park area in New York on Monday. Hide Caption 57 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – The owner of the Wilton House locks up his bar on Monday in Hoboken, New Jersey, as Hurricane Sandy approaches the area. Hide Caption 58 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Two people stand near the edge of the boardwalk on Monday in Ocean City, Maryland. Hide Caption 59 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – People fight against the wind along Brighton Beach in New York on Monday. Hide Caption 60 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A jogger runs along the East River in New York on Monday as a police car secures the area. Hide Caption 61 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A man watches as the tidal surge pounds a pier in Ocean City, Maryland, on Monday. Hide Caption 62 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A street on the shoreline of Milford, Connecticut, floods at high tide as Hurricane Sandy approaches on Monday. Hide Caption 63 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A sailboat smashes on the rocks after breaking free from its mooring on City Island, New York, on Monday. Hide Caption 64 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A lone tourist stands in Times Square early Monday as New Yorkers brace against Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 65 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A satellite image taken at 12:25 p.m. ET Monday shows Sandy moving over the Northeast. Hide Caption 66 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A restaurant on the boardwalk in Atlantic City, New Jersey, is boarded up in preparation for the bad weather on Monday. Hide Caption 67 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A man walks down a flooded street in Atlantic City on Monday before the hurricane makes landfall. Hide Caption 68 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Tourists wear plastic ponchos in Times Square on Monday. Hide Caption 69 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Air Force One arrives at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland. President Barack Obama canceled his appearance at a campaign rally in Orlando, Florida, and returned to Washington to monitor the response to Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 70 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A road leading to casinos in Atlantic City is empty before the hurricane makes landfall on Monday. Hide Caption 71 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Obama steps off Air Force One on Monday after arriving at Andrews Air Force Base. Hide Caption 72 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A truck moves north on South Long Beach Avenue as rising water and wind ahead of Hurricane Sandy flood the area on Monday in Freeport, New York. The storm, which threatens 50 million people in the eastern third of the United States, is expected to bring days of rain, high wind and, in places, heavy snow. Hide Caption 73 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – An overhead sign on the Southern Parkway alerts motorists to road closings in Wantagh, New York, on Monday. Hide Caption 74 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A truck fights its way through water on a road in Southampton, New York, on Monday. Hide Caption 75 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Andy Becica watches the heavy surf from Hurricane Sandy wash in Monday at Cape May, New Jersey. The full force of Hurricane Sandy is expected to hit the New Jersey coastline later Monday. Hide Caption 76 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Water forced ashore ahead of the hurricane starts to flood Beach Avenue in Cape May on Monday morning. Hide Caption 77 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A tattered piece of a billboard blows in the wind Monday in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Hide Caption 78 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Water floods a street in Atlantic City. Hide Caption 79 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – An ambulance maneuvers through water on Rockaway Beach Boulevard in Queens as the weather sours Monday in New York City. Hide Caption 80 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – People pose for pictures on the Brooklyn Bridge on Monday. Hide Caption 81 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A wave crashes over the bow of a tugboat in New York Harbor on Monday. Hide Caption 82 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Cape May Lighthouse shines over the heavy surf. Hide Caption 83 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Dark clouds cover the skyline of Manhattan early Monday. Hide Caption 84 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A satellite image shows Hurricane Sandy at 8:25 a.m. ET Monday. Forecasters warned that Sandy was likely to collide with a cold front and spawn a "superstorm" that could generate flash floods, snowstorms and massive power outages. Hide Caption 85 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – People stand on the beach watching the heavy surf caused by the approaching hurricane on Sunday in Cape May. Hide Caption 86 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Sean Doyle of Levittown and Andrew Hodgson of Hicksville pull their boat from Long Island Sound on Sunday at Oyster Bay, New York. Hide Caption 87 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – With Hurricane Sandy approaching, the Long Island Railroad announced the suspension of service at 7 p.m. Sunday in Hicksville, New York. Hide Caption 88 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Lisa Cellucci holds her umbrella as it is blown backward by Hurricane Sandy's winds as her friend Kim Vo watches on Sunday in Cape May. Hide Caption 89 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – People look at the surf as high winds and heavy rain from Hurricane Sandy arrive in Virginia Beach, Virginia, on Sunday. Hide Caption 90 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A construction worker covers air vents Sunday to try to prevent the New York subway system from flooding by Hurricane Sandy. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced a shutdown and suspension of all subway, bus and commuter rail service in response to the storm. Hide Caption 91 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Residents of Long Beach, New York, fill sandbags on Sunday in preparation for the storm. Hide Caption 92 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A satellite image from 10:10 a.m. ET on Sunday shows Hurricane Sandy in the Atlantic Ocean grazing the East Coast. Hide Caption 93 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A man surfs at Rockaway Beach in Queens as Hurricane Sandy approaches Sunday. Hide Caption 94 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Scott Davenport brings plywood to cover the windows at the Trump Plaza casino on the boardwalk in Atlantic City, New Jersey, on Sunday. Hide Caption 95 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Bob Kaege takes a measurement while boarding up a shop in Cold Spring, New Jersey, on Saturday as Marie Jadick speaks on the telephone getting an updated weather report in preparation for Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 96 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Houses are flooded in the neighborhood of La Javilla in Santo Domingo, the capital of Dominican Republic, on Friday. Hide Caption 97 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Residents watch firefighters battle a blaze in Kingston, Jamaica, on Friday. The fire, which destroyed the home, was started by a faulty generator that was triggered when Sandy caused a blackout, firefighters said. Hide Caption 98 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A motorcyclist rides through a flooded street Friday in Petit-Goâve, Haiti, where three overflowing rivers put homes and farms under water. Hide Caption 99 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Corey Hutterli works on securing his sailboat as the outer bands of Hurricane Sandy are felt in Miami Beach, Florida, on Thursday, October 25. Hide Caption 100 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A woman stands at the entrance of her house surrounded by flood water after heavy rain in Santo Domingo on Thursday. Hide Caption 101 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – People walk on a flooded street after Hurricane Sandy hit Port-au-Prince, Haiti, on Thursday. Hide Caption 102 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Burt Myrich boards up a home in preparation for Hurricane Sandy on Saturday in Cape May, New Jersey. Hide Caption 103 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A woman peers out the door of her house Thursday after it was damaged by Hurricane Sandy in Bayamo, Cuba. Hide Caption 104 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A man clears debris from his house on Thursday. It was demolished by Hurricane Sandy in Santiago de Cuba. Hide Caption 105 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Residents in Bayamo, Cuba, try to fix a house damaged by hurricane Sandy on Thursday. Hide Caption 106 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A U.N. peacekeeper on Thursday stands at the edge of a bridge that was washed away by heavy rains from Hurricane Sandy in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Hide Caption 107 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A house ruined by heavy flooding from Hurricane Sandy sits abandoned in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, on Thursday. Hide Caption 108 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Men deal with downed tree branches after heavy rain caused by Hurricane Sandy in Kingston, Jamaica, on Wednesday, October 24. Hide Caption 109 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Students walk in floodwater from Hurricane Sandy's rain in Santo Domingo on Wednesday. Hide Caption 110 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Citizens of Bayamo, Cuba, buy food on Wednesday, as they prepare for the arrival of Hurricane Sandy. Hide Caption 111 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Waves hit the coast in Santo Domingo on Wednesday. Hide Caption 112 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Citizens of Bayamo talk on the sidewalk on Wednesday. Hide Caption 113 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – People in Bayamo hold umbrellas as they purchase food Wednesday before the arrival of the hurricane. Hide Caption 114 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Jamaicans shelter themselves from the rain of approaching Hurricane Sandy as they walk along the Hope River on Wednesday. Hide Caption 115 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – The Hope River begins to swell with rain from approaching Hurricane Sandy in Kingston on Wednesday. Hide Caption 116 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – Houses sit along the Hope River in Kingston on Wednesday. Hide Caption 117 of 118 Photos: Photos: Sandy's destructive path Sandy's destructive path – A satellite view shows Hurricane Sandy's position on Wednesday. Hide Caption 118 of 118Meanwhile in Connecticut, Avon Town Manager Brandon Robertson recalled the perils of last year's storm, which knocked out 90% of the town's power grid around Halloween."The town was in pretty tough shape," he said. "I don't think anyone expected the level of devastation."Robertson said he had his first emergency preparedness meeting Friday and that power companies, which were criticized for a slow response last year, have already started to prepare."We are stronger and better prepared to respond now," said Connecticut Light & Power spokeswoman Theresa Gilbert.Federal authorities warned those in the densely populated area that is the storm's predicted path to fill up on prescriptions, nonperishable foods, cash, bottled water, flashlights, extra batteries and first-aid kits.Farther south, Virginia's National Guard was authorized Friday to bring up to 300 personnel for possible recovery operations.Last year, Hurricane Irene inflicted major damage from North Carolina to New England, though largely spared New York, where Manhattan restaurants and bars hosted hurricane specials and parties.But in neighboring states like New Jersey and Pennsylvania, the storm had harsher effects, knocking out power for thousands and causing flooding."While Sandy's exact track is still uncertain, New Jersey has the potential to experience a major impact from high winds, heavy rain, flooding and power outages," said New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie. "I encourage all of our families to stay informed, get ready and reach out to those you know who may be isolated or in need of extra assistance during adverse conditions."Floods are considered the most frequent natural hazards in New Jersey and residents across Atlantic County could be seen Friday filling up sandbags in preparation.Meanwhile, utility companies across the region were also in preparation mode in the hopes of reducing the numbers of power outages brought on by a rush of inclement weather."We're bringing in all of our field people," said Rena Esposito, a spokeswoman for Public Service Electric and Gas Company, New Jersey's largest utility firm. "We're also making arrangements with other utility companies to be able to get support from other states if needed."Last October, a powerful snowstorm left more than a million residents without power across the Northeast and mid-Atlantic states.