Story highlights Relief groups and state agencies are registering volunteers to help in the wake of SandyVolunteers are needed immediately and in the weeks to comeStay informed of ways you can help those impacted by Sandy at CNN.com/ImpactWhen the water recedes and the winds calm, the cleanup from Superstorm Sandy will just be beginning. Relief groups and state agencies are registering volunteers to help with recovery efforts in storm-damaged areas in the days and weeks to come.The New York City Mayor's Office is directing those who want to volunteer to register through NYC Service . People will be notified of opportunities as they become available.New York Cares coordinates volunteer programs for 1,300 nonprofits, city agencies and public schools, according to its website. The organization is preliminarily registering volunteers and will be organizing disaster recovery projects after the storm passes.New Jersey has activated its Volunteer Emergency Response Hotline . Local volunteers can call 1-800-JERSEY-7 (1-800-537-7397) to register. The New Jersey Office of Volunteerism and AmeriCorps will match volunteers based on availability and skills.Boston Cares is organizing volunteers to assist in various locations across Massachusetts. There is an immediate appeal for additional help at Red Cross shelters.JUST WATCHED Rooftop rescues in Staten Island Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Rooftop rescues in Staten Island 00:54JUST WATCHED Sandy victim loses home of 35 years Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sandy victim loses home of 35 years 02:47JUST WATCHED Counting the cost of Superstorm Sandy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Counting the cost of Superstorm Sandy 01:28United Way is organizing volunteers in Southeastern Pennsylvania. Go online for more information and to fill out the volunteer form.Volunteers in Rhode Island can sign up for on-call opportunities through ServeRhodeIsland.orgSamaritan's Purse will be organizing teams to help with debris clean up throughout the East Coast. Volunteers of any skill level can register online.Red Cross volunteers have been dispatched from across the country to help the East Coast. Become a Red Cross Disaster Volunteer and support future Red Cross disaster response efforts.Local Community Emergency Response Teams have also responded with help during and after the storm. To learn about CERT training and find programs in your area, go online.