(CNN) Michigan State University officially accepted the resignation Thursday of its interim president, following troubling remarks about Larry Nassar victims, and tapped executive vice president Satish Udpa to lead the school during the search for a permanent president.The board of trustees was slated to discuss whether John Engler could continue as interim president after he told The Detroit News that some sexual assault survivors in the Nassar case were "enjoying" the spotlight. The remarks spurred backlash. It wasn't the first time Engler had denigrated one of Nassar's victims.Under fire, Engler submitted an 11-page resignation letter to the board Wednesday evening defending his accomplishments as interim president and claiming the pressure on him to step down stemmed from five Democratic members of the board. Engler, 70, is a Republican former Michigan governor and legislator.At least one trustee denied Engler's accusation on Thursday, and several board members said Engler's ouster was inextricably linked to his insensitive remarks regarding the Nassar victims. The comments are not consistent with Michigan State's values, board members said."None of our work will matter if our leaders say hurtful things and don't listen to survivors," board Chairwoman Dianne Byrum said.Trustee Brian Mosallam said Nassar's survivors "no longer have to go to bed feeling no one will listen to them.""On this new day, our students, faculty, employees and alumni get their university back," he continued. "On this new day, the values of this university -- empathy, compassion and respect -- are no longer held hostage by one individual's instinct for base division, carelessness and hostility. Today the healing can truly begin."Trustee Kelly Tebay pushed back tears as she spoke directly to those who may have been injured by Engler's statements."A wrong has been righted today and the first thing I have to say is I'm sorry it took so long," Tebay said. "I really hope this is the first step in a long road to really changing the culture of this institution that we all love so much."With Melanie Foster absent, the remaining seven trustees voted unanimously to accept Engler's resignation and appoint Udpa as his replacement.John Engler became Michigan State University's interim president last year.Shortly after the board meeting, it was revealed that Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel has sought since Monday to interview Engler over what she felt was a lack of transparency in the Nassar investigation."Since he's been there there's been a pattern of reluctance to share information with the attorney general," spokeswoman Kelly Rossman-McKinney said, adding that she didn't want to speculate on whether Engler would agree to sit down with Nessel, but the attorney general would hope he cooperates.Engler's resignation letter came a year and a day after Nassar's sentencing hearing began. More than 150 victims testified, outlining the sexual abuse Nassar committed and the toll it took on their lives. A judge handed down a sentence of up to 175 years, telling the disgraced sports doctor, " I just signed your death warrant.'A natural healer'Udpa has been Michigan State's executive vice president of administrative services. The office's mission is to "promote high-performance behaviors, increase institutional effectiveness and support academic advancement through cross-campus initiatives and investing in people, processes, and the environment."His office oversees the school's Bolder by Design initiative, which strives to "advance our culture of high performance." The office reviews strategies, policies and processes for various departments on campus and works to help them increase their productivity, the university's website says.JUST WATCHED Judge defends conduct at Nassar sentencing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Judge defends conduct at Nassar sentencing 01:30Udpa was present for Thursday's trustee meeting. He did not deliver comments, but the trustees expressed confidence in him and said they looked forward to working with him -- as did the student and faculty liaisons in attendance."I think he is a natural healer. I think he will bring stability, calm," trustee Nancy Schlichting said.The board of trustees is slated to select a permanent president in June . The board is accepting nominations through the end of the month. It is not clear if Udpa is in the running. Engler was not a candidate.Though the list of criteria for Michigan State's next president does not mention the Nassar scandal specifically, it does say, "The president will promote a continued culture of high expectations for MSU athletic programs, with particular focus on a safe, healthy environment for athletes and others who are associated with athletic programs."Engler 'wouldn't support' more Nassar investigationsEngler's most recent troubling remarks came last week in an interview with The Detroit News editorial board. Engler was quoted as saying there were people who were "hanging on" to the Nassar issue."There are a lot of people who are touched by this: survivors who haven't been in the spotlight," Engler said, according to the paper. "In some ways they have been able to deal with this better than the ones who've been in the spotlight, who are still enjoying that moment at times -- you know, the awards and recognition. And it's ending. It's almost done."JUST WATCHED MSU reaches settlement with Nassar victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH MSU reaches settlement with Nassar victims 02:25In a separate story , he went on to say he would not support any additional investigations, the paper reported."There are some people who want to continue to investigate and inquire into lots of things," Engler said. "I wouldn't support any more. ... We're trying to get rid of lawyers and consultants now. We're trying to go back to work."Engler could not be reached for comment. An email to his office generated an automatic response.'Engler has always treated survivors as the enemy'Rachael Denhollander, the first victim to accuse Nassar publicly, and her husband, Jacob, were quick to slam Engler for his comments.The 34-year-old lawyer and former gymnast noted the paradox in claiming to have empathy for victims in one breath, then saying victims are enjoying the spotlight in another.Engler references survivors enjoying their time in the spotlight.You mean, like having to change the day I grocery shop so my 3 kids don't see a photo of their mom demonstrating what was done to her body?Tell me more about how enjoyable this spotlight is. https://t.co/1QkeNer4Zc — Rachael Denhollander (@R_Denhollander) January 12, 2019"You mean, like having to change the day I grocery shop so my 3 kids don't see a photo of their mom demonstrating what was done to her body? Tell me more about how enjoyable this spotlight is," she tweeted.Following Engler's resignation, John Manly, an attorney representing Nassar's victims, said the interim president's ouster was "long overdue" as Engler's actions had "continued to revictimize" his clients. It's sad, Manly said, that it took the "spotlight" comment to force his resignation."Engler has always treated survivors as the enemy. He took actions to obstruct and undermine criminal investigations of the university and its administration by the Michigan attorney general," he said.JUST WATCHED Watch Aly Raisman confront Nassar in court Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Watch Aly Raisman confront Nassar in court 01:35The board previously considered giving Engler the boot in June after he accused Denhollander of taking payoffs for manipulating other survivors -- an assertion Denhollander flatly denied. Engler apologized, and the board voted 6-2 to keep him on board.