(CNN) Oh, what a difference a year makes, at least for New Year's Eve weather conditions in Times Square.Unlike the near-subzero temperatures crowds experienced last December 31 in New York City, this year's Times Square forecast is rain with a high of 48 degrees -- all the way into 2019.In other words, out with the parkas and in with ponchos."It will still be raining when the clock strikes midnight," CNN meteorologist Jennifer Gray said. "We could get a break here or there but I'm not counting on it."It's serious enough that the New York Police Department is not deploying its new fleet of drones as planned for the first time over Times Square on New Year's Eve.Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Joey and Claudia Flores of California kiss as confetti falls during New Year's celebrations in New York's Times Square. Hide Caption 1 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world A man watches the fireworks at Copacabana Beach in Rio de Janeiro. Hide Caption 2 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world People walk along a pedestrian bridge in Las Vegas. Hide Caption 3 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Fireworks ring in the new year in Vina del Mar, Chile. Hide Caption 4 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Fireworks explode around the London Eye in London. Hide Caption 5 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Revelers crowd the streets of Hamburg, Germany. Hide Caption 6 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Fireworks explode at the Arc de Triomphe in Paris. Hide Caption 7 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Women celebrate 2019 on Tverskaya Street in central Moscow. Hide Caption 8 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Fireworks explode above the ancient Parthenon temple atop the Acropolis in Athens, Greece. Hide Caption 9 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Fireworks explode over Martyrs Square in downtown Beirut, Lebanon. Hide Caption 10 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world A woman waits to celebrate 2019 during the countdown in front of Beijing's National Stadium. Hide Caption 11 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Fireworks go off over central Simferopol, Crimea. Hide Caption 12 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world People take part in New Year's celebrations in Cairo. Hide Caption 13 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Fireworks light up the sky in front of the Petronas Twin Towers in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Hide Caption 14 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world A boy releases a balloon carrying his personal wishes as people gather at Kizilay Square in Ankara, Turkey. Hide Caption 15 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Fireworks illuminate the sky in Yogyakarta, Indonesia. Hide Caption 16 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world A man watches the fireworks display in Karachi, Pakistan. Hide Caption 17 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world A reveler at a party in Quezon City, Philippines. Hide Caption 18 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Fireworks explode over Victoria Harbour in Hong Kong. Hide Caption 19 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world People take selfies during the last sunset of the year in Myanmar. Hide Caption 20 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world A Buddhist prays in front of lanterns during celebrations to mark 2019 at Jogyesa temple in Seoul, South Korea. Hide Caption 21 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Members of the Kosatka DV winter-swimming club see out the old year in an ice hole in Russia. Hide Caption 22 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Schoolchildren hold balloons during New Year's celebrations at their school in Ahmedabad, India. Hide Caption 23 of 24 Photos: New Year's celebrations around the world Fireworks explode over the Harbour Bridge and Opera House in Sydney. Hide Caption 24 of 24Read More