If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Ready for a break from the winter blahs? How about an all-expenses-paid trip to ... Buffalo ? Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Presidential addressPresident Trump made the case for a border wall last night during his first Oval Office address. He warned of a "crisis" on the border with Mexico but didn't declare a "national emergency," a controversial move that might have led to him bypassing Congress and trying to build the wall with Defense Department funds. The President backed up his crisis claims with lots of misleading statements and fuzzy facts that were almost immediately debunked by reporters and Democrats. You can watch Trump's full speech hereHow Trump and his opposition talk about the border issueHow Trump and his opposition talk about the border issue 01:46How Trump and his opposition talk about the border issueNone of what the President said seemed to change any minds or get the nation any closer to ending the 19-day-old partial government shutdown , now the second-longest in US history. And the pain's about to get real for the 800,000 federal workers who won't get a paycheck Friday . There don't seem to be any serious negotiations going on between the White House and Democratic leaders. And now, even some Republicans appear to be losing patience for an extended shutdown battle, with GOP Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska joining a few other Republican senators in calling for the government to be reopened while the battle over the border wall continues.2. Russia investigationSpecial counsel Robert Mueller believes Paul Manafort shared polling data with a Russian closely linked to that country's military intelligence while he was running Donald Trump's presidential campaign. This bombshell revelation came to light because Manafort's lawyers screwed up redacting parts of a court filing that was publicly released yesterday. This is a big deal in Mueller's long-running investigation because it's the clearest public evidence yet of coordination between Trump's campaign and Russians.JUST WATCHED Does Manafort disclosure build collusion case? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Does Manafort disclosure build collusion case? 03:393. Australian suspicious packagesSuspicious packages were delivered to a dozen consulates and seven embassies in Melbourne and Canberra. The British, American, Croatian, New Zealand and Swiss consulates in Melbourne all got suspicious items in the mail. A Croatian official told CNN that a package containing three little packets arrived at the consulate through the mail. Australian police and fire officials aren't providing many more details, but they don't believe the packages "pose an actual threat."4. R. KellyR&B singer R. Kelly could be under investigation in Georgia. A lawyer for Joycelyn Savage, one of the women featured in the Lifetime documentary "Surviving R. Kelly," said an Atlanta-area district attorney is looking into sex abuse allegations against the singer, though the DA's spokesman had no comment. The six-part docuseries -- which aired last week to much buzz on social media -- looked at longstanding claims of abuse and pedophilia against Kelly and featured accounts from his accusers. A lawyer for the singer said the allegations in the documentary are false.JUST WATCHED R. Kelly has faced these allegations for over two decades Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH R. Kelly has faced these allegations for over two decades 04:095. CancerCancer deaths in the US have been falling steadily for a quarter century , a new study says. The US cancer rate dropped by 27% from 1991 to 2016, according to a study from the American Cancer Society. That means there were about 2.6 million fewer cancer death than there would have been had death rates stayed the same. That's heartening for sure, but there was still some bad news mixed in. The disparities between rich and poor patients and black and white patients remain, although the racial gap appears to be closing somewhat.JUST WATCHED Michael Bublé opens up about son's cancer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Michael Bublé opens up about son's cancer 01:03THIS JUST IN ...Headed outDeputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein will leave the Justice Department in the coming weeks once a new attorney general is confirmed, a source familiar with his thinking told CNN. Rosenstein has been overseeing the Russia investigation.JUST WATCHED The man who oversees Mueller's investigation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The man who oversees Mueller's investigation 01:02BREAKFAST BROWSEHelping handsFederal workers hit by the shutdown have some backup. Restaurants are offering free meals , and Jimmy Kimmel is giving them jobs on his show.JUST WATCHED Late night takes on government shutdown Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Late night takes on government shutdown 01:37Size mattersBigger is never big enough, at least when it comes to TVs. Samsung is showing off a 219-inch (!!) television this week at the CES show in Las Vegas.Musical mash-upChildish Gambino. Phish. Brandi Carlile. Looks like there's a little something for everybody at Bonnaroo, which just announced this year's lineup.Final frontierWell, that was fast. NASA's new planet-hunting telescope has only been on the job for three months, and it's already found three new exoplanetsWalk right in ...Why create a car that simply rolls down the road when you can make one that "walks?" Hyundai did.JUST WATCHED Hyundai's latest concept car can 'walk' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hyundai's latest concept car can 'walk' 00:54TODAY'S NUMBER$130,000That's the salary (split between two people) to k eep a California lighthouse up and runningAND FINALLYBust a move