If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.(CNN) At a new art installation in the Namibian desert, Toto's "Africa" will play forever . As a fan of 80s music, I'm all for it. Here's what else you need to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. BrexitSo what happens now ? That's the question no one seems to have an answer for in the United Kingdom, after Prime Minister Theresa May's Brexit deal went down in a historic defeat in Parliament . The deal May struck to get the UK out of the EU lost by 230 votes, which is the biggest defeat for any UK government in the modern parliamentary era. So today May faces what's sure to be a blistering Question Time and another no confidence vote (but she'll probably survive ). Beyond that, everything seems to be on the table: reworking the deal with the EU, holding a second Brexit referendum, extending the March 29 deadline to leave the EU, putting a pause on the whole Brexit process or leaving the EU without a deal (the most-feared option ).2. William BarrWilliam Barr pledged to protect special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation from outside interference during his Senate confirmation hearing. Barr, President Trump's pick for attorney general, seemed to please Democrats when he said:Mueller should be allowed to finish his work;the Russia investigation wasn't a witch hunt;he wouldn't fire Mueller without good cause;But the Dems didn't like Barr's assertion that he'd stick to long-standing Justice Department guidelines that a sitting President can't be indicted. Here's seven key takeaways from Barr's hearing, which continues today.JUST WATCHED Barr: Mueller is not on a witch hunt Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Barr: Mueller is not on a witch hunt 01:023. Kenya hotel attackAt least 14 people were killed when gunmen barged into a hotel complex in an upscale district in Nairobi. Car bombs were set off in the parking lot, then the gunmen entered the hotel, firing shots. The attack turned into a siege as the gunmen holed up in the hotel, trapping hundreds of people. Kenyan officials said early this morning that the standoff was over, all of the gunmen had been "eliminated" and more than 700 people had been rescued. But sporadic gunfire could still be heard hours after the all clear was given. Terrorist group al-Shabaab claimed responsiblity for the attack. That's the same gang of terrorists that attacked Nairobi's Westgate shopping center in 2013, in an attack and siege that killed 67 peopleJUST WATCHED Police respond to shooting near Nairobi hotel Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police respond to shooting near Nairobi hotel 01:344. 'El Chapo' trialA stunning claim came out yesterday during the trial of drug kingpin Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman. A former aide of Guzman's testified that Guzman once paid ex-Mexican President Enrique Pe単a Nieto a $100 million bribe . The aide, Colombian trafficker Alex Cifuentes, said the money was given to Pe単a Nieto in October 2012, when he was president-elect. Representatives for Pe単a Nieto have not responded to a CNN request for comment, but a man who was Pe単a Nieto's spokesman during his presidency called the testimony "completely false and defamatory." Guzman is on trial in New York on various murder, drug, money laundering and gun charges.JUST WATCHED Who is El Chapo? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is El Chapo? 00:595. Government shutdownJUST WATCHED Democrats decline White House meeting on shutdown Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Democrats decline White House meeting on shutdown 02:04TODAY'S QUOTE"I am one of the lucky ones."Saudi teen Rahaf Mohammed , speaking out for the first time after she fled her allegedly abusive family in Saudi Arabia and gained asylum in CanadaJUST WATCHED Saudi teen: 'I am one of the lucky ones' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Saudi teen: 'I am one of the lucky ones' 01:05BREAKFAST BROWSERIP, CarolCarol Channing was best known as the raspy-voiced star of "Hello Dolly," but the Broadway legend gave us so much more than that.JUST WATCHED 'Hello Dolly' star Carol Channing dead at 97 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'Hello Dolly' star Carol Channing dead at 97 01:02All in your earHow that "Baby Shark" song went from internet meme to Billboard Top 40 hit tells us a lot about how social media works, our A.J. Willingham says.Oh, the horrorNetlix is raising its prices again , which means we'll all protest this in the streets for a few minutes before going back home and resuming our binge-watching.JUST WATCHED Netflix is winning streaming. Disney wants to change that Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Netflix is winning streaming. Disney wants to change that 04:15No joke"Family Guy," which seems to revel in making fun of everybody, says it's phasing out the gay jokesMaria, Maria, Maria, MariaJUST WATCHED Listen to the new star of 'West Side Story' sing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Listen to the new star of 'West Side Story' sing 01:02You can't have a "West Side Story" without a Maria, and Steven Spielberg's new remake just found oneTODAY'S NUMBERMore than 1,500The number of GoFundMe pages furloughed government employees have set up so far during the shutdownAND FINALLYJust for Jeeps