If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Think the partial government shutdown doesn't affect you? Think again. It's already messing with your vacatio n. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. ShutdownAs the partial government shutdown rolls into its 16th day -- and negotiations with Congressional Democrats to end it appear to be at a standstill -- President Trump mulls an unprecedented move. Trump says he might wield his presidential powers to declare a national emergency to bypass Congress and build his border wall, using Defense Department funds. That idea generated immediate pushback from Democrats, and it's almost guaranteed to generate a legal challenge2. Syria3. Jazmine BarnesJUST WATCHED Suspect arrested in shooting of 7-year-old Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Suspect arrested in shooting of 7-year-old 01:10The shooting death of 7-year-old Jazmine Barnes was senseless, but it seems even more so now, after police said the violence was probably a case of mistaken identity . Jazmine was in a car with her family as they drove through Houston when she was shot in the head on December 30. Police say Eric Black Jr., 20, was arrested and charged with capital murder in Jazmine's death. Black reportedly told police he drove the vehicle used in the shooting while a man in the passenger seat opened fire. A second person, currently in jail on drug charges, is also listed as a suspect in the shooting. Jazmine's funeral is scheduled for tomorrow.4. GabonJUST WATCHED Soldiers say they have seized power in Gabon Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Soldiers say they have seized power in Gabon 01:50Gabon's army says it has seized power in the Central African country as its President recovers from a stroke in Morocco. The military said it was taking power to "restore democracy." In a video making the rounds on social media, a man who says he's the commander of Gabon's Republican Guard says President Ali Bongo's health had declined along with his presidential capacities. Bongo has been ill since October. He was sworn in for a second seven-year term in 2016, after a disputed election that was followed by deadly protests.5. Golden GlobesJUST WATCHED Gaga, Regina King make waves at Golden Globes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Gaga, Regina King make waves at Golden Globes 01:52THIS JUST INMalaysia's royal families are meeting today to pick a new king, after current leader Muhammad V abdicated the throne over the weekendHAPPENING LATERTech treatsTODAY'S NUMBERJUST WATCHED Massive tuna nets $3.1 million at auction Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Massive tuna nets $3.1 million at auction 00:333.1 millionThat's how much a giant bluefin tuna sold for at a New Year's auction in Tokyo.QUOTE OF THE DAY"You may think of her as Holly Hunter from "Broadcast News," but she is so much more."Joe Ianniello, interim CEO of CBS, announcing that Susan Zirinsky will be t he next president of CBS News . She's the first woman to head the network's news division. (She also inspired the character portrayed by Hunter in " Broadcast News .")BREAKFAST BROWSENot todayA note to thieves everywhere. If you're going to rob someone, make sure she's not a UFC fighter. A would-be thief learned that lesson the hard wayNo driver requiredGM and DoorDash are teaming up to deliver food with driverless cars . Not sure if you have to tip the vehicle, though.I'll be thereWhen parents refuse to attend the same-sex weddings of their children, this mom steps right inOn timeWant to fly on the world's most punctual airline ? Then you'll need to book a flight down in Latin America.Oh babyAND FINALLY ...Hoop dreamsIt's all dunks all the time when parrots play basketball.