If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.If you've filled up your car's tank lately, you've probably noticed that gas prices have dropped. Here's why that's both good and bad for the economy. And here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Politics2. Apple2019's off to a rough start for Apple. The tech giant's stock fell as much as 8% and lost $55 billion in value late yesterday after CEO Tim Cook released a letter saying Apple had lower sales during the holiday period because of "lower than anticipated" iPhone sales in China. Apple pinned the blame on the ongoing trade skirmish with the US and the slowdown of China's economy. Growth in China, the world's second-largest economy, in 2018 was the weakest since 1990. And it will probably be worse in 2019. If that happens, Apple won't be the only casualty . Other Western brands, like General Motors and Starbucks, could get hurt, too.3. IndiaTwo women who entered one of Hinduism's holiest sites -- and broke a centuries-old gender ban in the process -- are now in hiding . They were the first women to visit the 800-year-old Sabarimala shrine since India's Supreme Court overturned the ban back in September. The ban barred women ages 10 to 50 from entering the site. The shrine is considered the spiritual home of a celibate Hindu god. Women of menstrual age had been banned for centuries because it was thought allowing them into the temple would be disrespectful. The court said that was discriminatory and tossed the ban out. That hasn't sat well with religious hard-liners, who've staged some violent protests ever since, trying to keep the court's decision from being enacted.4. SAT disputeKamilah Campbell feels like she's been called a cheater. And she's not having it. The Florida teen took the SAT for a second time last year, trying to improve her score. But instead of getting test results, she got a letter from the testing company, The College Board, saying her scores were invalid. Campbell thinks her score was flagged because it's much higher than her first test . "I did not cheat. I studied, and I focused to achieve my dream," said Campbell, who wants to go to Florida State. She's hired a high-profile civil rights attorney to try to force The College Board to validate her score in time for her to get into FSU. The College Board says it never flags scores for review solely on gains, though scores could be flagged when test takers' sheets have similar answers.JUST WATCHED Florida student denies cheating on the SAT Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Florida student denies cheating on the SAT 01:085. SpaceChina successfully landed a rover on the far side of the moon this morning. The spacecraft, named Chang'e 4, landed in the South Pole-Aitken Basin, the moon's largest and oldest impact crater. It's the first time a spacecraft has ever landed on the far side, which never faces Earth. The rover also sent back the world's first close-range image of that side of the moon. China has big plans for space, including possibly sending a Chinese astronaut to the moon.JUST WATCHED Chinese rover makes historic moon landing Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Chinese rover makes historic moon landing 01:38Meanwhile, NASA revealed clearer images of Ultima Thule, the object at the edge of the solar system that the New Horizons spacecraft took pictures of during its flyby on New Year's Day. And Ultima Thule looks just like a ... red snowman ? Yep. And studying this "space snowman" is important because Ultima Thule is part of the Kuiper Belt, which is a remnant of the original disk from which the sun and planets formed. So, studying Ultima Thule is like looking back in time.TODAY'S NUMBER2The number of hours Alejandro Aparicio served as mayor of Tlaxiaco, Mexico, before he was shot and killed . A 34-year-old suspect was arrested in Aparicio's death.BREAKFAST BROWSERest in peace, Part 1The world lost Daryl Dragon, the Captain from The Captain & Tennille. And, of course, Toni Tennille was at his side when he passed awayRest in peace, Part 2We also said goodbye to Bob Einstein (better known as daredevil Super Dave Osborne) and legendary WWE commentator "Mean" Gene OkerlundA little too hotHey, if you've got some Zeigler Red Hots sausages in your fridge, you may need to toss them. They're being recalled because of possible metal contaminationIn their feelingsThe Krispy Kreme truck in Kentucky crashed, and cops across the country expressed their deep sense of lossJUST WATCHED Cops mourn loss of doughnut truck Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cops mourn loss of doughnut truck 01:01Don't speakDo you like words like "ghosting," "optics" or "accoutrements?" Well, dump them, because they're on the list of banished words for 2019.Oh, babyKanye and Kim K. are going to be parents again. The celeb couple is expecting child No. 4 , via surrogate.JUST WATCHED Kim and Kanye plan to grow their family by 1 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kim and Kanye plan to grow their family by 1 01:02AND FINALLY'Take me home ...'