If your day doesn't start until you've gotten up to speed on the latest headlines, then let us introduce you to your new favorite morning fix. Sign up here for the '5 Things' newsletter.Congrats to the Clemson Tigers, who handed Nick Saban his worst loss ever at Alabama as they won their third college football national title last night. Here's what else you need to know to. (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .)1. Government shutdownPresident Trump takes his battle to build a border wall into overdrive tonight. He'll a ddress the nation in prime time in his first Oval Office address, and he's expected to describe the situation on the southern border with Mexico as a national security crisis . (There are already 31 active national emergencies , some dating back to the Clinton administration.) Trump will follow that up with a trip to the border later this week. Political observers think the President is trying to break the logjam with Democrats over his $5 billion border wall funding request -- and the government shutdown it's created -- by building a case to bypass Congress for the money and use Defense Department funds to build it instead. That's guaranteed to spark a lengthy court battle.2. BrexitBrexit doesn't happen for another two months, but it's already sucking money out of the UK. A new report from accounting firm EY says banks and other financial companies have moved at least $1 trillion worth of assets out of the UK and into the EU because of Brexit. That's about 10% of total assets in the country's banking sector. Firms are moving money to protect against possible sudden regulation changes stemming from Brexit and to protect clients from market volatility. The UK Parliament is set to vote on Prime Minister Theresa May's Brexit deal next week.3. Cyntoia BrownCyntoia Brown will soon be a free woman. Brown, who got a life sentence for killing a man who bought her for sex when she was 16, was granted clemency by GOP Gov. Bill Haslam of Tennessee. She'll be released on parole in August after serving 15 years. Brown, 30, had a lot of high-profile people advocating for her release, including lawmakers and A-list celebs. A pastor who lobbied Haslam for Brown's release -- and who spoke of forgiveness and second chances -- says he'll "walk her out" of prison and "hold her hand."JUST WATCHED Cyntoia Brown granted clemency after 15 years Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cyntoia Brown granted clemency after 15 years 02:304. Cuba sonic attacksWere those bizarre noises that US diplomats reported hearing in 2016 and 2017 in Cuba caused by insects? A pair of scientists who analyzed recordings of the "buzzing" and "grinding" sounds say they could be the echoing call of a cricket . The diplomats and their families experienced pain, dizziness, vertigo and ringing in the ears from the sounds. State Department officials feared they had fallen victim to an "acoustic attack" from sonic devices, something Cuban officials denied any involvement in. This cricket theory hasn't been reviewed by other scientists, though, so some form of audio attack can't be ruled out yet.JUST WATCHED US embassy employee suffers health effects Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH US embassy employee suffers health effects 01:015. Kids and screen timeWe've all been told repeatedly that letting children stare at screens for hours on end is bad for them. But a group of British pediatricians says there's really little evidence to back that up . The guidance from the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health in the UK says there's not an "evidence base" for a direct link between screen time and problems like obesity, mental health issues, heart disease and educational problems. The group does recommend getting screens away from kids an hour before bedtime so they can sleep better. (That's good advice for us adults as well.) The group's view contrasts with guidance on screen time issued by most other health organizations.JUST WATCHED Are we addicted to the Internet? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Are we addicted to the Internet? 02:02BREAKFAST BROWSE'Star' attractionDisney's raising ticket prices at Disneyland. Maybe we can blame it on the Jedi. The price hike comes ahead of the opening of the new "Star Wars" attraction.Tell me no lies"Big Little Lies" fans get ready. This photo , tweeted out by Reese Witherspoon, hints that the HBO drama will be criminally good in Season 2.Car talkThe cars of the future won't just cruise the roads. They'll "talk" to traffic lights, road signs and pedestrians, too.Going, going, gone?Great Barrier Reef. The Galapagos Islands. Venice. You might want to see these UNESCO sites sooner than later because climate change puts them at riskPhotos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Under threat: There are 1,092 must-see spots currently on the UNESCO World Heritage list, including the remote Rapa Nui — also known as Easter Island. But, if climate change continues unchecked, these remarkable treasures might lose their value. Some sites may even be lost forever.Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Rapa Nui: In the southeastern Pacific Ocean, rising sea levels and higher waves during storms are threatening to topple the mysterious moai statues on Rapa Nui, according to a joint report by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), UNESCO and the Union of Concerned Scientists.Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Aldabra Atoll: Rising sea temperatures have affected World Heritage-listed coral reefs, such as the Aldabra Atoll in the Indian Ocean, the Belize Barrier Reef in the Atlantic and the Great Barrier Reef in Australia, pictured here. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Yellowstone National Park: The United States is also feeling the impact of global warming. Yellowstone, the world's first national park, is experiencing shorter winters with less snowfall, warmer rivers, shrinking lakes and wetlands, and longer fire seasons. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Geothermal hotspot: Yellowstone National Park contains half of the globe's known geothermal features, and is home to an array of wildlife including grizzly bears, wolves and bison. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Ilulissat Icefjord: At Greenland's Ilulissat Icefjord visitors can watch icebergs calve off the Sermeq Kujalleq glacier and pass out of the fjord. The government of Greenland even marketed it as a destination to see "before it's too late." Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Galapagos Islands: Climate change is causing stronger and more frequent El Nino years, which significantly impact the Galapagos Islands, a wildlife haven off the coast of Ecuador. The lack of nutrient-rich, cold water impacts the entire food chain and many species face starvation. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Pastoruri Glacier: Warming has also impacted Peru's Pastoruri Glacier in Huascarán National Park. The melting glacier is impacting water supplies and contaminating water and soil due to the release of heavy metals previously trapped under ice, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Cape Floral Kingdom: South Africa's Cape Floral Kingdom is a World Heritage site consisting of over 1 million hectares of protected areas. But the region's incredible plant diversity, including the country's national flower, the King Protea, are under growing pressure in an increasingly warm and dry climate.Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Mount Everest: In Nepal's Sagarmatha National Park -- which encompasses Mount Everest -- rising temperatures are causing Himalayan glaciers to retreat. This can destabilize surrounding slopes and result in catastrophic landslides. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Philippine Cordilleras: For over 2,000 years the Ifugao people of the Philippine Cordilleras cultivated rice terraces, but rising temperatures and extreme rainfall are a concern. The UCS says more intense rainstorms will reduce terrace stability and potentially cause landslides and erosion.Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Venice: Venice's city of 118 islands is increasingly threatened by flood water during storms and high tides. Sea levels have risen 30 centimeters since 1897 according the UNEP/UNESCO report -- 12 centimeters due to land subsidence and 18 centimeters via sea level rise. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Shiretoko Peninsula: In Hokkaido, northern Japan, the Shiretoko Peninsula experiences the southernmost sea ice in the northern hemisphere according to UNESCO. The sea ice induces phytoplankton production, which sustains a rich marine environment. Brown bears and Blakiston's fish owls occupy the land, but sea ice decline over the last 30 years is impacting the ecosystem. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: These World Heritage Sites are at risk Thu Bon River: Hoi An in central Vietnam lies on the Thu Bon River, with much of the city two meters or less above sea level. Hoi An's historic old town contains 800 wooden-framed buildings from the 16th and 17th centuries, but the city is prone to flooding says the report, and vulnerable to storm surges and sea level rises. Hide Caption 14 of 14THIS JUST IN ...Surprise visitNorth Korean leader Kim Jong Un is in Beijing to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping. It's Kim's fourth visit to China.JUST WATCHED China hosts surprise visit by Kim Jong Un Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH China hosts surprise visit by Kim Jong Un 02:40TODAY'S NUMBER86%TODAY'S QUOTES"It seems it was a group of troublemakers ..."Guy-Bertrand Mapangou, saying the " Gabon government spokesman, saying the " situation is under control " in the Central African country after an apparent coup attempt by armed men"I'm sorry!"Emma Stone, Actress yelling out from the audience after Sandra Oh's whitewash joke at the Golden Globes. Stone, who is white, was accused of "whitewashing" after she was cast to play a character of Chinese and Hawaiian descent in 2015's "Aloha."AND FINALLYThe new math