(CNN) Suspect in Washington family killing is nabbed. The Boy Scouts may soon let in gay leaders. And biker gangs in Texas issue new threats against cops.It's Friday, and here are the five things to know for your New Day:D.C. QUADRUPLE HOMICIDEDaron Dylon Wint, the suspect in last week's quadruple homicide and arson, was arrested late last night in northeast Washington. Wint was leaving a Howard Johnson hotel in a car when 20 police vehicles and a helicopter cornered him on a road a few miles away. Police said they had just "barely missed him" Wednesday night when he reportedly fled to New York and spent the night with a girlfriend.CALIFORNIA OIL SPILLDrip, drip, drip: As bad as the oil spill in Santa Barbara was this week, it could have been worse. The pipeline that ruptured was carrying 1,300 barrels of oil an hour, : As bad as the oil spill in Santa Barbara was this week, it could have been worse. The pipeline that ruptured was carrying 1,300 barrels of oil an hour, below its max capacity of 2,000 barrels. The cleanup continued yesterday on the coast, with officials saying that untold numbers of lobsters, kelp bass and marine invertebrates have been killed by the leak. So how long will the cleanup last? It could take months to get Refugio State Beach back to normal.Photos: Oil spill off California coast Workers clean oil off a brown pelican at the International Bird Rescue office in Los Angeles on Friday, May 22. More than 100,000 gallons of oil from a ruptured pipeline recently spilled onto coastal lands near Goleta, California, and into the Pacific Ocean. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast Workers prepare an oil containment boom at Refugio State Beach, north of Goleta, on Thursday, May 21. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast A pelican flies over an oil slick on the ocean surface near Refugio State Beach on May 21. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast A member of the Bureau of Land Management walks past rocks covered in oil on May 21. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast A crab and California mussels are covered in oil on May 21. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast A bird covered in oil flaps its wings on May 21. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast Plastic buckets are filled with oil collected from the beach on May 21. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast Workers clean up the site near Refugio State Beach on May 21. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast Oil flows toward the ocean on Wednesday, May 20. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast Crews clean up oil on May 20. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast Ships pulling booms attempt to collect oil from the spill on May 20. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast An octopus lies dead on May 20. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast Volunteers fill buckets with oil on May 20. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast Oil surrounds the feet of local resident Morgan Miller as he patrols the beach for affected wildlife on Tuesday, May 19. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: Oil spill off California coast Miller and another local resident, Josh Marsh, look for distressed wildlife on May 19. Hide Caption 15 of 15BOY SCOUTSThe times, they are a-changing: Sounds like the Boy Scouts of America is prepping to get rid of its Sounds like the Boy Scouts of America is prepping to get rid of its ban on gay scout leaders . Robert Gates, the organization's president, said yesterday that the country is changing when it comes to views on gays and lesbians, and that the group's current ban "cannot be sustained." Gates said it was better to start making changes now than be forced by the courts to do it. Gates didn't set a timetable, but urged changes happen sooner rather than later. And just this week, the Girl Scouts reiterated its stance that transgender girls are welcome to join.The Boy Scouts of America's longtime ban on gay scout leaders may be coming to an end.WACO SHOOTOUTClear and present danger: Bandido bikers may bring out the heavy artillery -- literally -- against police. That's what a Bandido bikers may bring out the heavy artillery -- literally -- against police. That's what a bulletin from the Texas Department of Public Safety says. Bikers who are in the military are reportedly giving the gangs grenades and explosives, some of which could be used to car bomb law enforcement officials and their families. The gang has also ordered hits on Texas troopers and threatened to run over officers at traffic stops. This info is from an informant who says he got it from the Bandidos and Black Widows gangs.JUST WATCHED Fmr. Bandidos member: Police warning is 'pure nonsense' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fmr. Bandidos member: Police warning is 'pure nonsense' 03:18NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCYTick, tock, tick, tock: Congress wants to keep the NSA's phone data collection program up and running, but is bumping up against a June 1 deadline. On that day, the program goes dark without a reauthorization or extension. So what does Congress do in such situations? Wait until the last minute to deal with the problem AND take a full, week-long Memorial Day recess. So Congress wants to keep the NSA's phone data collection program up and running, but is bumping up against a June 1 deadline. On that day, the program goes dark without a reauthorization or extension. So what does Congress do in such situations? Wait until the last minute to deal with the problem AND take a full, week-long Memorial Day recess. So Congress is scrambling to find a solution in the next couple of days before everyone flies out of D.C. for barbecue. Two bills -- one would temporarily extend the program, the other would shift data collection to telecommunications companies -- may get votes Friday or Saturday in the Senate, but who knows if either one will pass.Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Safety talk: This nifty little video from Delta contains just about every Internet meme you can think of.'Isn't that ... ?': No one likes surprises at a wedding -- unless the surprise is Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson!Cuteness alert!: Adorable little penguins, frolicking in the water. That's really all you need to know.Hug me: This dog's owner has to resort to tricks to get a hug.