Boston (CNN) They said a jury in this progressive city would never go for the death penalty. They said defense attorney Judy Clarke was unbeatable. And they were wrong. They didn't know how powerful witnessing terrorism and its aftermath can be.No cameras have been allowed at the Tsarnaev trial. But CNN's Ann O'Neill has been there every day. Think of her as The 13th Juror , bringing insights here weekly. And follow @AnnoCNN on Twitter daily.In the end, 12 people who spent the past 10 weeks thinking about little else but the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings took just 14 hours to agree that 21-year-old Dzhokhar Tsarnaev should be executed for the worst of his crimes -- leaving the bomb that killed a grad student and a little boy near the finish line.Clarke's winning streak ended with an outright rejection of her attempts to humanize Tsarnaev as a man-child influenced by an obsessed older brother. The jury held him responsible for his bomb, and his bomb alone.I think this was a smart jury. They were able to parse the complex legal concepts of conspiracy, reserving the most severe punishment for Tsarnaev's own actions.Tsarnaev faced death on 17 counts, but the jury found just six merited the death penalty. They involved the killing of Martin Richard , 8, and Lingzi Lu , 23. Both bled to death in the street after literally being torn apart by hot shrapnel.Tsarnaev will receive a sentence of life without parole for the death of Krystle Campbell , who was killed by a bomb carried into the crowd by his older brother, Tamerlan, who died days later in a gun battle with police.Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Martin Richard, 8, was in the second grade and loved the Red Sox. He was the middle of three children and is best known for a school project in which he made a poster with a peace sign and the words "No more hurting people." He was less than 4 feet from the second bomb. He bled to death as his mother leaned over him, begging him to live. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Lingzi Lu, 23, was a graduate student from China, studying statistics. A gifted musician and public speaker, she was enjoying her time in the United States. She decided to watch the Boston Marathon as a study break. The second bomb sliced her leg open from hip to toe, and she bled to death. Her aunt called her "a beautiful nerd." Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Krystle Campbell, 29, was remembered by her father as his "Princess," but she loved sports and the outdoors and "wasn't a girly girl," he said. She put on big family parties and was close to her brother. She was working as a restaurant manager. She was burned and cut by hot shrapnel from the first bomb and bled to death. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Sean Collier, 26, grew up in a big "Brady Bunch"-blended family and always wanted to be a police officer. He viewed the world from a moral stance, and felt a strong sense of right and wrong. He loved to race cars with his brother and go on family vacations. He was shot to death in his patrol car on the MIT campus because the Tsarnaev brothers wanted his gun to use in their escape. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Celeste Corcoran, left, and her daughter, Sydney Corcoran, recovered in the same hospital room. Doctors were able to save Sydney's leg, but Celeste lost both of hers. Sydney recalled how she felt the life drain from her body and believed she was dying. Celeste felt great frustration when she couldn't rush to her daughter's side. "I never forget I'm a double amputee," Celeste said. "There's always a level of discomfort." Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Adrianne Haslet-Davis is a ballroom dancer. She remembers walking through the crowd on Boylston Street, holding hands with her husband, Adam, and feeling happy and in love. Then the bombs went off. Her husband, who is in the military, told her they'd been in a terrorist attack. But the second bomb went off before they could leave. She knew immediately something was wrong with her foot, and could see blood everywhere. She couldn't hear her own screams and thought she was dead. They were dragged into the Forum restaurant, and a first responder recalled hearing her husband apologize to her over and over for bringing her to the event. She testified that he recently checked himself into a Veterans Affairs mental health program. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Erika Brannock was the last bomb survivor to leave the hospital. She came to the marathon from her home in suburban Maryland to cheer her mother on and was excited about being able to get so close to the finish line. Her sister, Nicole Gross, testified that she recalled pushing Brannock through the crowd so they could get closer. "I said, 'One, two, three, go,' and as soon as I said, 'Go,' the bomb went off," Gross said. Brannock told reporters in 2013 that she saw flashes of orange and yellow light and was knocked to the pavement. She couldn't move her foot and thought she was going to die. She said she's had moments when she was angry with the bombers but "I can't waste my energy being angry. I need to save energy for getting well and for being with people who care about me and want me to get better." Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Jeff Bauman remembers looking down at his legs. "It was just pure carnage. I could see my bones and the flesh sticking out, and I just went into tunnel vision. I thought this is really messed up, this is messed up, that's all I said in my head. This is how it's going to end. This is it. I had a great life. I saw the world. I played sports growing up. I had a lot of friends ... I made peace with myself at that point." Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Heather Abbott was outside the Forum restaurant when the second bomb went off. "I was catapulted through the doors of the restaurant, which was open. I landed in a puddle of chaos and blood and glass. People were running in herds by me, through the restaurant to get to the back exit, away from where the bomb was." Her foot was badly mangled, and she decided to amputate below the knee. She wears a prosthetic with toes and a high heel. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured J.P. Norden, left, and his brother, Paul Norden, did not testify during the trial, preferring to put the bombing behind them. Their mother, Liz, is outspoken in the survivor community. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Karen Rand McWatters lost a leg -- and one of her best friends. She and Krystle Campbell spent the day laughing and posting selfies on Facebook before heading to the finish line. She was knocked to the ground by the first blast, and heard the second before she could understand what was happening. Her foot was turned in the wrong direction, but she dragged herself toward Campbell. She couldn't see how badly hurt her friend was. "I got close to her head, and we put our faces together. She very slowly said her legs hurt, and we held hands and very shortly after her hand went limp and we never spoke again." Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Mery Daniel, a young mother from Haiti, was attending her second marathon when she was knocked to the pavement. She lost a leg, and the other leg was also damaged. She had pushed herself from ESL classes all the way to medical school, and instead found herself relearning how to walk with a prosthesis. She wears her "Boston Strong" T-shirt proudly. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Marc Fucarile was at the marathon with friends, and was struck by hot shrapnel from the second bomb. His pants caught fire, and he suffered burns over 90% of his lower body. His belt buckle was so hot, it burned his hand when he tried to undo it. One leg was blown off at the scene, and he's still trying to save the other, but might not win that battle, he said. He's had more skin grafts than he can remember. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Patrick Downes and Jessica Kensky Downes met when they were interns on Capitol Hill. She lost both legs and was pushed into court in a wheelchair. Her aide dog, Rescue, lay beside her as she testified. "I remember being happy, I remember feeling sunlight on my face. I remember feeling free." And then the bomb went off. Because she is a nurse, she focused on saving her husband. His foot and part of his leg were hanging by a thread. She remembers screaming, and not being able to hear anything. This photo was taken before she decided to amputate her second leg in January. "I wanted to paint my toenails and put my feet in the sand. I wanted all of those things, and to lose my second leg was a gut-wrenching decision." Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Rebekah Gregory was celebrating her birthday weekend at the marathon with family and friends. She remembers coming to after the blast and reaching for her 5-year-old son, Noah. She could see bones protruding from her arm. She also lost a leg below the knee. Like many bomb survivors, she was convinced she was going to die that day. She is using a blade to run again. After she testified, she wrote a note to Dzhokhar Tsarnaev on her Facebook page saying she is not afraid of him. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Roseann Sdoia had run a 5K the day before the marathon. She heard the first bomb and decided to run for it. Then she saw two explosions of white light at her feet. She knew she'd lost a leg before she hit the ground. She saw a severed foot with a sock and remembers asking herself if she wore socks that day. "It was somebody else's foot." She thought she'd rather die than live as an amputee but then considered all the people she'd be leaving behind. So she willed herself to stay conscious and fight. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Jane Richard, in the pink skirt, lost her leg. She holds the hand of her brother Henry as they walk down Boylston Street with their parents and others after an April 15 ceremony this year. She was standing next to her brother Martin behind a metal barricade when the second bomb went off. Her father, Bill, took one look at Martin, knew he wouldn't make it and focused his efforts on saving Jane. She sang in April at Fenway Park on opening day. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Mary Jo White and Bill White, right, had gone with son Kevin into the city for lunch and were on their way back to "the T," as Boston's public transportation system is called, when they decided to stop by the finish line. They were just feet away from the first bomb. Bill, a veteran who earned a Purple Heart in Vietnam, lost his leg above the knee. Kevin, who serves as the family spokesman, says his parents, who are in their 70s, don't like to talk about the events of April 15, 2013. He told his local newspaper he "really has no feelings" for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Steve Woolfenden, a biomedical researcher, was pushing his son, Leo, in a stroller along Boylston Street. His wife was running the marathon, and they were making their way to the finish line when the first bomb went off. He started to turn the stroller around in the crowd, but the second blast caught them. Woolfenden's leg was severed on the scene. He could see it still in the boot next to him, the tibia protruding. His focus was on Leo and getting him help. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Leo Woolfenden was lifted from his stroller by a first responder as the boy's father lay on the ground with a severed leg. Leo suffered a skull fracture.Hide Caption 20 of 20And the jury resisted punishing the surviving Tsarnaev brother with the death penalty for the ambush and assassination of MIT police officer Sean Collier. To this day, we don't know for sure which brother pulled the trigger.But here's what really surprised me and many of the people who watched the trial: The defense case simply did not resonate. In fact, it fell completely flat.Even Sister Helen Prejean, the funny, charming nun of "Dead Man Walking" fame, couldn't save Tsarnaev.I listened carefully to Sister Helen, looking for any sign of real remorse from the college student-turned-prisoner she met with five times behind bars. Surely he must feel some regret by now.But the nun could say only that she believed Tsarnaev was sorry. All he told her was, "No one deserves to suffer like they did."Never did he acknowledge he was the one responsible for that suffering, and not once did he tell her, "I'm sorry."The jurors needed to hear him say that. They needed to see some sign of remorse behind what appeared to be a mask of bored indifference.So, prosecutors Steve Mellin and Bill Weinreb were able to run with the ball. They portrayed Tsarnaev in closing arguments as a callous terrorist so convinced of the righteousness of his cause that he felt nothing after killing innocents and causing hundreds of people a lifetime of grief, disfigurement and pain.They said he was so remorseless, he bought milk at a Whole Foods Market in Cambridge 22 minutes after the bombing and later tweeted "Ain't no love in the heart of the city."Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Judy Clarke has defended some of the most notorious criminals in recent American history and has managed to keep several off death row. Click through to see some of the San Diego lawyer's most high-profile cases: Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Clarke joined the defense team for Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev . He was arrested on April 19, 2013, after a massive manhunt following an overnight shootout with police that left his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev -- the other man wanted in the bombings -- dead. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found guilty of all 30 counts that he faced in the Boston bombing trial on April 8, 2015. Seventeen of those counts were capital charges , meaning he is eligible for the death penalty. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Jared Lee Loughner pleaded guilty to the January 2011 attempted assassination of then-U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords. The Arizona shooting killed six people and wounded 13 others, including Giffords. He was diagnosed by two mental health experts as paranoid schizophrenic, and he was sentenced to life in prison under a plea bargain. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Eric Robert Rudolph was defended by Clarke after he pleaded guilty in 2005 to bombing a women's clinic in Birmingham, Alabama, and other bombings, including at the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta. Prosecutors dropped the death penalty after he led them to dynamite caches in North Carolina. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Zacarias Moussaoui, also known as the 20th hijacker in the 9/11 attacks, was defended by Clarke only briefly since he repeatedly fired his lawyers. He abruptly pleaded guilty to terror conspiracy charges in July 2002, though he was not given the death penalty. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Buford O. Furrow was sentenced to five life terms for a shooting spree at a Jewish Community Center in Los Angeles and the fatal shooting of a Filipino-American postal worker in 1999. Prosecutors dropped the death penalty when the defense documented and charted Furrow's long history of psychiatric treatment for bipolar disorder. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Clarke kept Ted Kaczynski, also known as the Unabomber, off death row. He pleaded guilty in January 1998 to making and transporting bomb materials that killed three people. Federal prosecutors backed away from the death penalty after their own expert diagnosed him as a paranoid schizophrenic. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Susan Smith was convicted of murdering her two sons by strapping them into a car and rolling the car into a lake in 1994. Clarke portrayed Smith as a woman so tormented by her failures in life that she even failed at her own suicide and jumped out of the car. Smith did not receive the death penalty. Hide Caption 8 of 8Even putting the best possible spin on it in, Clarke couldn't say Tsarnaev was sorry. The best she could do was say he was on the road to "maturity" and maybe some day being remorseful. She urged jurors to spare him in the hope that he might find redemption.It wasn't enough.In making their decision, jurors had to weigh aggravating factors -- things that prosecutors said made this crime so bad it merited the death penalty -- against mitigating factors -- things the defense cited as reasons to show mercy and spare his life.Only two of the 12 jurors found that Tsarnaev had expressed any remorse.And, only two found that his dysfunctional family played a role in turning him into a terrorist bomber. Just one juror found that his mother's embrace of radical Islam left Tsarnaev without the parental support and guidance he needed as a teen.The "Tamerlan made me do it" defense flopped, too. Just three jurors found that his older brother led him into the crime.To buy into the defense theory, jurors had to see some emotion in this defendant. And it just wasn't there. He cried only once in court, when an elderly Russian aunt took the stand and broke down in tears. He cried for his own people, not theirs, and that doesn't play in "Boston Strong" country.Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A jury condemned Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to death on Friday, May 15, for his role in killing four people and wounding hundreds more in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. See photos that were released as evidence in his trial. Hide Caption 1 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This undated photo of a young Tsarnaev with his brother, Tamerlan, was shown by the defense in the sentencing phase of the trial. Tamerlan died after being shot by police and run over by a car driven by his brother in the massive manhunt that followed the bombings. Hide Caption 2 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Katie Russell met Tamerlan Tsarnaev at a nightclub and dropped out of college to marry him. Her mother, Judith Russell, testified that Tamerlan came between Katie and her family and that Katie became isolated. She eventually converted to Islam and changed her name to Karima Tsarnaeva. She was the breadwinner. But when company came for dinner, she cooked, served the men and then retired to another room. Hide Caption 3 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This collection of photos of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in his wrestling days was introduced by the defense. Hide Caption 4 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This photo of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, recovered from his computer, was shown during the sentencing phase. Hide Caption 5 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image shows victims' positions in the crowd prior to the Boston Marathon bombings on April 15, 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev "flips the bird" in a jail cell during his first arraignment on July 10, 2013. The image was presented to jurors in the sentencing phase of his trial. Hide Caption 7 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev poses in front of a black standard adopted by various militant Islamist groups in this Instagram photo that was entered as evidence. Hide Caption 8 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say Tsarnaev was a self-radicalized jihadist who pored over militant writings, including the article "How to Build a Bomb in the Kitchen of Your Mom." It was found on his laptop and other devices, part of a full-edition download of Inspire magazine, a glossy English-language propaganda tool put out by al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Hide Caption 9 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This Russian manual on how to fire a handgun was found in the apartment where Tsarnaev's brother, Tamerlan, lived. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 10 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This copy of The Sovereign, which calls itself the "newspaper of the resistance," was also found in Tamerlan Tsarnaev's apartment. Hide Caption 11 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Pictured here is a box of bullets found on a street after the shootout in Watertown. The brothers' fingerprints were on the box, prosecutors said. Hide Caption 12 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A pressure cooker was embedded in the side of a resident's Honda during the Watertown shootout. Hide Caption 13 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos of the Watertown shootout were entered into evidence. Neighbors came to their windows and then retreated. One grabbed his infant son and headed toward the back of his house with his wife. Another grabbed a camera and took photographs from an upstairs window. Hide Caption 14 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence The Tsarnaevs had carjacked a Mercedes SUV in Watertown before the shootout. The vehicle was covered in bulletholes, and the rear window was shattered. Hide Caption 15 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This unexploded pipe bomb was found at the scene of the shootout between police and the Tsarnaev brothers in Watertown. Hide Caption 16 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said these boards were attached to the boat where police found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding. A carved message reads, "Stop killing our innocent people and we will stop." Hide Caption 17 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Smashed phones and an ATM card owned by carjacking victim Dun Meng were in the yard where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found. Hide Caption 18 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this surveillance image shows Tsarnaev visiting an ATM hours before a police chase and chaotic shootout in which more than 200 rounds were fired. Hide Caption 19 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Another view of Tsarnaev's visit to the ATM. Hide Caption 20 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Exhibits related to the shooting death of MIT Officer Sean Collier were introduced to the jury on Wednesday, March 11. This image from the crime scene appears to show a bloody gun. Hide Caption 21 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This burned tank top and yellow hoodie belonged to bombing survivor Jessica Kensky. Hide Caption 22 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this Fox Racing logo was from one of the backpacks containing a bomb. Hide Caption 23 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this still image from surveillance video shows Tsarnaev in the UMass Dartmouth gym the day after the bombings. Hide Caption 24 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors showed the jury photos of what they say are Tsarnaev's writings inside the boat he was captured in. Hide Caption 25 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image is from a surveillance camera outside the Forum restaurant in Boston's Copley Square just after the bombing. Hide Caption 26 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors presented two Twitter accounts linked to Tsarnaev that, they said, showed targeting the marathon had been on his mind for at least a year. One account, @J_tsar, contained 1,100 tweets and was the more mainstream of the two. On the day of the 2012 Boston Marathon, a tweet from the account read, "They will spend their money & they will regret it & they will be defeated." Hide Caption 27 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said the second Twitter account is evidence that Tsarnaev led a double life. By day, he was a slacker college sophomore. By night, he was a wannabe jihadist, posting on the account @Al_firdausiA. In one tweet, he urged people to listen to radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki's lectures. "You will gain an unbelievable amount of knowledge," he said in March 2013, just weeks before the bombings. Prosecutors also allege in an indictment that Tsarnaev downloaded al-Awlaki's writings, calling him a "well-known al Qaeda propagandist." Al-Awlaki had been killed in a U.S. drone strike in 2011. Hide Caption 28 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Hide Caption 29 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A Boston Marathon bombing victim is tended to in the street. Hide Caption 30 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Victims at the finish line just after the bombing. Hide Caption 31 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Eight-year-old Martin Richard, the youngest victim , can be seen standing on the rail in the front row. Hide Caption 32 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A closer view of 8-year-old Martin Richard in the crowd before the bombing. Hide Caption 33 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Boston police tend to a wounded child. CNN has chosen not to show the young victim's face. Hide Caption 34 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Mayhem along Boylston Street. Hide Caption 35 of 35I have seen juries hand down death sentences more times than I can count. The first time, I went home and cried. The defendant looked like Kenny Rogers, and I lost it when I turned on the TV that night in the middle of a Kenny Rogers Christmas special.I don't cry anymore at death verdicts. But anyone who has dealt with bureaucracy can understand a discomfort with giving the government the power to kill its own citizens. There's no do-over if the bureaucrats mess things up.And I understand people who think the death penalty just continues the cycle of violence. But I have no idea how I'd feel if somebody killed someone I love. I suspect I'd want to execute him or her with my own hands.If you saw the trial I saw, it's not difficult to understand how, if we're going to have the death penalty, this is the type of crime it is intended to punish.This trial brought terrorism out of the Gitmo gridlock and into a U.S. courtroom, if not our living rooms. It's just as well that federal trials aren't televised because this one was over-the-top gruesome. We saw a little kid and two young women get blown up. We knew when a baby-faced rookie cop was dying by the way the brake lights in his patrol car flashed on and off as two figures ran into the shadows.And then we got to know the people who were lost. That was much, much worse because they all were vibrant and living life as the adventure it is meant to be.I keep going back to grad student Lingzi Lu, her father's "jolly elf," and the poem he wrote and read at her memorial service. The child in the poem tells her parents not to cry, promising, "If there is an afterlife, I will be your daughter again!" An only child, she had been in the United States just seven months when Tsarnaev's bomb found her on an afternoon too nice to spend indoors studying.Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The second of two explosions goes off near the finish line of the Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013. Three people were killed and at least 264 were injured in the double bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos A man comforts a victim at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Runners react near Kenmore Square after the explosions. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Rescue workers tend to the wounded on the scene. First responders tried to save lives and limbs before transporting victims to hospitals. Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On April 16, 2013, a vigil was held at Boston's Garvey Park for 8-year-old bombing victim Martin Richard . The other victims were Krystle Campbell , a 29-year-old restaurant manager from Medford, Massachusetts, and Lingzi Lu , a 23-year-old Chinese national attending graduate school at Boston University. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The city was quiet the day after the tragedy. Here, a young runner, left, sits in a church near the scene of the attack. Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On April 17, 2013, a federal law enforcement source with firsthand knowledge of the investigation told CNN that a lid to a pressure cooker -- thought to have been used in the bombings -- had been found on a roof of a building near the scene. It was one of several pieces of evidence authorities found Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The device also had fragments such as nails, BBs and ball bearings, the FBI said. Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On April 18, 2013, the FBI released photos and video of two suspects in the bombings and asked for the public's help in identifying them. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The FBI later identified the suspects as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev , left, and his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos FBI Suspect No. 2, later said to be Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, is apparently seen in this picture, far left in white cap. The photo was taken by Boston Marathon runner David Green at the scene of the bombings. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The man identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev appears in a tighter crop of Green's photo. Green submitted the photo to the FBI, he told CNN's Piers Morgan in an interview. Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Late on the night of April 18, 2013, police responded to a call that a campus officer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology was shot and killed. Police said a man later reported being carjacked by the brothers. The two were stopped in Watertown, Massachusetts, where police said they threw explosives and shot at the officers. One man, assumed to be Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, drove off. The other, later identified as Tamerlan Tsarnaev, was injured. He died at the hospital. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis speaks to the media on April 19, 2013, and explains that the city is on lockdown until the surviving suspect is found. Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Officers scoured Watertown, Massachusetts, where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was last seen. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Frightened residents were questioned near Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's home in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos SWAT teams conducted door-to-door searches in Watertown while looking for the suspect. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Ruslan Tsarni , uncle of the Tsarnaev brothers, gave an interview April 19, 2013, outside his home in Montgomery Village, Maryland. He urged Tsarnaev to turn himself in. Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos SWAT teams continue to search in Watertown on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On the evening of April 19, 2013, a Watertown resident called the police and reported seeing a man on a boat in his backyard. Residents ran from the area where police said Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was hiding on Franklin Street. Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Helicopters with infrared devices detected a man under the boat tarp. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's frame is seen in this thermal image released by Massachusetts State Police. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Police threw "flash-bangs" -- devices meant to stun people with a loud noise -- and started negotiations with Tsarnaev. He eventually surrendered and was transported to a local hospital in serious condition. Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos People wave U.S. flags in Watertown after it was announced that Tsarnaev had been captured. Hide Caption 23 of 23There was so much testimony about lives lost or forever changed. The victims who died were loved and are sorely missed by people just like us.We in the courtroom heard one bomb go off, and saw the other leave broken bodies in a cloud of smoke. We heard the screams and an awful kind of wailing. We saw bones protruding from torn flesh and pools of blood that seemed too brightly red.But we couldn't feel the heat the bombs left on the sidewalk, and we couldn't smell what witnesses described as the vile, sickening odor of burned flesh and hair, blood, and gunpowder.We can't really know what it feels like to hold your broken, dying 8-year-old son in your arms and beg him to please, please live. We can't know what it's like to have to make the terrible choice between who you can save and who you have to let go.We can't know that, and neither could the seven women and five men on the jury. But they could imagine, and that was enough.Grief hung so heavily in Courtroom 9 of the John Joseph Moakley U.S. Courthouse. At times it felt like a crushing weight.The courthouse is a beautiful brick building with polished floors and big, bright windows overlooking Boston Harbor. But sunny days were few, and it feels like we've been attending a funeral every day since the beginning of March.At last it is time to pack up and leave this sadness. The reporters, lawyers and spectators don't have to live with it. But so many others do. And no one who witnessed what happened in that courtroom will ever be the same.