(CNN) Bandidos, Hells Angels, Mongols. They're not just motorcycle clubs, but organized criminal enterprises .Now, after a biker gang shootout left nine people dead in Texas , many are wondering what such gangs really stand for.Police haven't identified the five biker gangs involved in Sunday's deadly melee outside a Twin Peaks restaurant -- other than to say they're notorious."These are very dangerous, hostile biker gangs we are dealing with," Waco police Sgt. W. Patrick Swanton said.Some men at the scene had the names and patches of motorcycle clubs emblazoned on their vests: Cossacks. Scimitars. Vaqueros.While it's not clear who else might be involved, here are some of the gangs federal authorities consider the most dangerous in the country:Bandidos Motorcycle ClubPhotos: Multiple deaths in shootout between biker gangs Photos: Multiple deaths in shootout between biker gangs People in Waco, Texas, stand near the parking lot of a Twin Peaks restaurant where nine people were killed in a shooting on Sunday, May 17. At least 18 people were hospitalized as well after a melee between rival biker gangs. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Multiple deaths in shootout between biker gangs Emergency responders tend to a wounded person near the restaurant. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Multiple deaths in shootout between biker gangs People stand near the restaurant as police investigate the scene. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Multiple deaths in shootout between biker gangs Emergency vehicles and members of law enforcement gather near the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Multiple deaths in shootout between biker gangs Authorities block an access road as the investigation takes place. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Multiple deaths in shootout between biker gangs Waco police posted this photo to its Facebook page, warning the public to stay clear of the area. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Multiple deaths in shootout between biker gangs Bikers wait in a line as law enforcement officers investigate the shooting. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Multiple deaths in shootout between biker gangs Bikers wait on a hill near the parking lot of the restaurant. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Multiple deaths in shootout between biker gangs A McLennan County deputy stands guard near a group of bikers. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Multiple deaths in shootout between biker gangs A law enforcement officer walks past debris near the parking lot of the restaurant. Hide Caption 10 of 10The Bandidos boast a membership of 2,000 to 2,500 across not just the United States, but also 13 other countries, the Department of Justice says"The Bandidos constitute a growing criminal threat to the U.S.," the agency says. "The Bandidos are involved in transporting and distributing cocaine and marijuana and are involved in the production, transportation and distribution of methamphetamine."Hells Angels Motorcycle ClubWith over 230 chapters in the U.S. and 26 other countries, "Hells Angels pose a criminal threat on six continents," the Department of Justice saysJUST WATCHED Former undercover gang member: This is how gangs work Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Former undercover gang member: This is how gangs work 01:42Officials say the gang is heavily involved in the drug trade -- including the production and distribution of methamphetamine and the transportation of cocaine, hashish, heroin, LSD, Ecstasy and PCP.That's not all. "The Hells Angels are also involved in other criminal activity including assault, extortion, homicide, money laundering and motorcycle theft," the DOJ says.The group, founded in 1948, says its average member rides over 12,000 miles a year."Each Charter varies in their requirements, but if you are really interested you should talk to a member in your area," the Hells Angels website says . "If you have to ask where the nearest Charter is ... you are not ready to join our Motorcycle Club,"As for the name, "we know that there is an apostrophe missing but it is you who miss it. We don't."Mongols Motorcycle ClubThe Mongols club is an "extremely violent" outlaw motorcycle gang that poses a serious criminal threat to the Pacific and Southwest regions of the U.S., the Department of Justice says.JUST WATCHED Police anticipated trouble before biker gang shootout Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police anticipated trouble before biker gang shootout 01:23In fact, agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives have called the Mongols the most violent and dangerous motorcycle gang in the country."The Mongols are also known to frequently commit violent crime including assault, intimidation and murder in defense of their territory, and to uphold the reputation of the club," the DOJ said.The Mongols call themselves the " baddest 1%er Motorcycle Club known worldwide.""When we do right nobody remembers," the group says. "When we do wrong nobody forgets."Outlaws Motorcycle ClubArson, kidnapping, explosives, prostitution, homicide. Those are just some of the crimes the Outlaws have engaged in, the DOJ says.The Outlaws started in the Chicago area in 1935 . Federal authorities say they are now the dominant motorcycle gang in the Great Lakes area.Their merchandise includes T-shirts with pictures of guns pointed at the viewer."Snitches are a dying breed," one shirt says, with two guns firing.And there's a big rivalry between the Outlaws and Hells Angels."The Outlaws compete with the Hells Angels for both members and territory," the DOJ says.