(CNN) Baltimore police turn in their report on Freddie Gray. A pair of Republicans throw a monkey wrench. And Malala's attackers get life in prison.It's Friday, and here are five things to know for your New Day.FREDDIE GRAY INVESTIGATION: Baltimore police handed over its report yesterday on the probe into Freddie Gray's death to Baltimore City State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby. Various media outlets, citing "multiple law enforcement sources," say the report found no evidence Gray died as the result of injuries caused during his arrest but instead died of an injury he suffered in the police van. Mosby confirmed that she had received the police department's investigative report and that her office was conducting its own independent investigation into Gray's April 19 death. She gave no indication if or when she would pursue charges in the case. Police also revealed that the van Gray was traveling in after his arrest made a previously unknown stop on the way to the police precinct.OKLAHOMA RESERVE DEPUTYChanges: The Tulsa County Sheriff's Office The Tulsa County Sheriff's Office makes changes to its reserve deputy program, after Robert Bates shot a suspect he meant to subdue with a Taser. Now reserve deputies can't patrol alone and the reserve program's "advanced classification" will be postponed while deputy training is reviewed. Bates was classified as an advanced reserve deputy in April when he shot and killed suspect Eric Harris. He has pleaded not guilty to a second-degree murder charge. Harris' family alleges Bates didn't have proper training but was allowed to "play cop" because he donated vehicles and other equipment to the sheriff's office.JUST WATCHED Investigation: Robert Bates insufficiently trained Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Investigation: Robert Bates insufficiently trained 02:32IRAN NUKE DEALMonkey wrench: The GOP (and some Democrats) want Congress to have a say in the debate over a possible nuclear deal with Iran. But The GOP (and some Democrats) want Congress to have a say in the debate over a possible nuclear deal with Iran. But the actions yesterday of two Republican senators could torpedo a bill that would do just that. Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton and Florida Sen. Marco Rubio want votes on their amendments to, in their view, toughen up the legislation. If the amendments became a part of the bill, it would lead to an almost-certain presidential veto. If that happened, Congress could be cut out of any role in approving the still emerging agreement with Iran. Cotton's amendment deals with Iranian nuclear facilities; Rubio's wants Iran to recognize Israel's right to exist. GOP leaders are now mulling what to do next, so action on the bill may not take place until later next week.Arkansas Republican Sen. Tom Cotton says he wants a vote on his amendment.U.S. NAVYNaval escort: U.S. commercial ships will now U.S. commercial ships will now get a military escort through the Strait of Hormuz. The Pentagon announced this yesterday, in response to recent harassment of U.S. commercial vessels by ships from Iran's Revolutionary Guard. Not every commercial ship will necessarily be accompanied by the Navy, but this is a big change from past U.S. military posture in the Strait. The Pentagon hopes to reduce the risk of confrontation, since any Iranian seizure of a U.S.-flagged vessel could provoke an international incident.JUST WATCHED Iran intercepts U.S.-flagged ship Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iran intercepts U.S.-flagged ship 01:24MALALA YOUSAFZAILife in prison: That's what That's what 10 people in Pakistan got for their roles in the attack on Malala Yousafzai in 2012. Yousafzai, a Nobel Peace Prize-winning activist, was shot and nearly killed by Taliban militants while she was riding home on a school bus. The Taliban targeted Yousafzai because of her outspoken support for girls' right to an education. It's not known if the men who directly attacked Yousafzai -- who was born in Pakistan's Swat district but has since moved to England -- were among those convicted and sentenced this week.JUST WATCHED Pakistan sentences 10 for Malala attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pakistan sentences 10 for Malala attack 01:18Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Singing Avenger: Hawkeye from the "Avengers" sings the blues.Double shot : Got too many chins? This shot can help.Trick shot: Daredevil Josh Sheehan completes a triple backflip on a motorcycle.Cuteness alert!: Buck the puppy tries to cure his hiccups by growling.More cuteness: Ollie the cockatoo sways away to Elvis Presley's "Don't Be Cruel."Rush hour: A barefoot man chases a runaway camel. That's all you need to know.