(CNN) The jury in the Dzhokhar Tsarnaev trial deliberated 14 hours over three days before deciding he should die for his role in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings.The penalty phase of the trial involved 17 counts.The jury voted for the death penalty on six counts related to what court documents called "Pressure Cooker Bomb #2" -- the explosive device Tsarnaev planted on Boylston Street in front of the Forum restaurant. The bomb exploded April 15, 2013, near the end of the Boston Marathon.Lingzi Lu, a graduate student from China, and Martin Richard, 8, of Dorchester, Massachusetts, were killed by that bomb.Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was not sentenced to die for the devastation caused by a device, "Pressure Cooker Bomb #1", planted by his deceased older brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, or the killing of MIT police officer Sean Collier three days later.Tsarnaev was convicted on 30 counts total on April 8, but some of those charges didn't allow for the death penalty. Here is how the jury decided on the 17 counts in the penalty phase, as listed on court documents.1. Not sentenced to death. Conspiracy to use a weapon of mass destruction resulting in the death of Krystle Marie Campbell, Officer Sean Collier, Lingzi Lu and Martin Richard.2. Not sentenced to death. Use of a weapon of mass destruction (Pressure Cooker Bomb #1) in the vicinity of 671 Boylston Street that resulted in the death of Campbell.3. Not sentenced to death. Possession of a firearm (Pressure Cooker Bomb #1) during and in relation to a crime of violence, namely the use of a weapon of mass destruction, that resulted in the death of Campbell.4. Sentenced to death. Use of a weapon of mass destruction (Pressure Cooker Bomb #2) in the vicinity of 755 Boylston Street and resulting in the deaths of Lu and Richard.5. Sentenced to death. Possession or use of a firearm (Pressure Cooker Bomb #2) during and in relation to a crime of violence, namely the use of a weapon of mass destruction, that resulted in the deaths of Lu and Richard.6. Not sentenced to death. Conspiracy to bomb a place of public use, resulting in the deaths of Campbell, Collier, Lu and Richard.7. Not sentenced to death. Bombing of a place of public use (Pressure Cooker Bomb #1) in the vicinity of 671 Boylston Street and resulting in the death of Campbell.8. Not sentenced to death. Possession or use of a firearm (Pressure Cooker Bomb #1) during and in relation to a crime of violence, namely the bombing of a place of public use, that resulted in the death of Campbell.9. Sentenced to death. Bombing of a place of public use (Pressure Cooker Bomb #2) in the vicinity of 755 Boylston Street that resulted in the deaths of Lu and Richard.10. Sentenced to death. Possession or use of a firearm (Pressure Cooker Bomb #2) during and in relation to a crime of violence, namely the bombing of a public place, that resulted in the deaths of Lu and Richard.11. This count, conspiracy to maliciously destroy property, was not listed among the capital counts considered by the jury because it was not death penalty-eligible.12. Not sentenced to death. Malicious destruction of property by means of an explosive (Pressure Cooker Bomb #1) in the vicinity of 671 Boylston Street and resulting in the death of Campbell.13. Not sentenced to death. Possession or use of a firearm (Pressure Cooker Bomb #1) during and in relation to a crime of violence, namely the malicious destruction of property, that resulted in the death of Campbell.14. Sentenced to death. Malicious destruction of property by means of an explosive (Pressure Cooker Bomb #2) in the vicinity of 755 Boylston Street that resulted in the deaths of Lu and Richard.15. Sentenced to death. Possession or use of a firearm (Pressure Cooker Bomb #2) during and in relation to a crime of violence, namely the malicious destruction of property, that resulted in the the deaths of Lu and Richard.16. Not sentenced to death. Possession or use of a firearm (Ruger P95 9mm semiautomatic handgun) during a crime of violence, namely conspiracy to use a weapon of mass destruction, resulting in the death of Officer Sean Collier.17. Not sentenced to death. Possession or use of a firearm (Ruger P95 9mm semiautomatic handgun) during a crime of violence, namely conspiracy to bomb a place of public use, resulting in the death of Collier.18. Not sentenced to death. Possession or use of a firearm (Ruger P95 9mm semiautomatic handgun) during a crime of violence, namely conspiracy to maliciously destroy property, resulting in the death of Collier.