Aurora, Colorado (CNN) Police Sgt. Gerald Jonsgaard surveyed the carnage of a mass shooting inside a crowded movie theater. Then he saw her.She was a 6-year-old girl and seemed lifeless.She was the youngest victim in one of the worst mass killings in U.S. history . Its aftermath was a scene of screaming, blood everywhere and the odor of bodies ripped open by gunfire, witnesses testified this week.Jonsgaard, a 36-year veteran, just couldn't take his attention off Veronica Moser-Sullivan, though she seemed dead. It was something about her age, he explained. She was such a little girl."I wasn't keeping a child in that crime scene," Jonsgaard testified Wednesday. "I didn't want my officers stepping over (her)."As the murder trial of accused gunman James Holmes began this week, prosecution witnesses provided a vivid, horrifying image of the interior of the Aurora movie theater where the mass shooting happened in June 2012.Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The public gets its first glimpse of James Holmes, then 24, the suspect in the Colorado theater shooting during his initial court appearance July 23, 2012. With his hair dyed reddish-orange, Holmes, here with public defender Tamara Brady, showed little emotion. He is accused of opening fire in a movie theater July 20, 2012, in Aurora, Colorado, killing 12 people and wounding 70. Holmes faces 166 counts, almost all alleging murder or attempted murder. He has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. More photos: Mourning the victims of the Colorado theater massacre Hide Caption 1 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police release the official photo from Holmes' booking after the shooting. Hide Caption 2 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes often had a blank stare during his July 23, 2012, court appearance, seeming to be in a daze. Hide Caption 3 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Victims and their relatives and journalists watch the proceedings in 2012. Hide Caption 4 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Flags fly at half-staff on July 23, 2012, at the Arapahoe County Courthouse in Centennial, Colorado, where the movie theater shooting suspect had his first court appearance. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 5 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Arapahoe County District Attorney Carol Chambers talks to reporters July 23, 2012, before heading into the courthouse. The murder counts against Holmes carry a possible death penalty. Hide Caption 6 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Family members of the victims arrive at the courthouse July 23, 2012, for the suspect's first court appearance. Hide Caption 7 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre The Century Aurora 16 multiplex in Aurora becomes a place of horror after a gunman opened fire July 20, 2012, in a crowded theater. Hide Caption 8 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Holmes is accused of opening fire during a midnight screening of the Batman movie "The Dark Knight Rises." Holmes purchased four weapons and more than 6,000 rounds of ammunition, police say. Hide Caption 9 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police investigate outside the Century 16 multiplex July 21, 2012, a day after the mass shooting. Hide Caption 10 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the suspect's car outside the theater. Hide Caption 11 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police escort a sand-filled dump truck containing improvised explosive devices removed from Holmes' booby-trapped apartment on July 21, 2012. Authorities have said they believe the suspect rigged his place before leaving for the movie theater. Hide Caption 12 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police break a window at the suspect's apartment July 20, 2012, in Aurora. Hide Caption 13 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers speak with Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper, center, outside the suspect's apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 14 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Law enforcement officers prepare to disarm the booby-trapped apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 15 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officials tow cars outside Holmes' apartment July 21, 2012. Police disassembled devices and trip wires set up in the apartment. Hide Caption 16 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers prepare to place an explosive device inside the apartment. Hide Caption 17 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Debris flies out a window, right, after law enforcement officers detonate an explosive device inside the apartment July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 18 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People mourn the victims during a vigil behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers in Aurora. Hide Caption 19 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman grieves during a vigil for victims behind the theater. Hide Caption 20 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A distraught woman receives counseling from the Rev. Quincy Shannon, left, in front of Gateway High School in Aurora, where the families of the missing met after the shooting. Hide Caption 21 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Lin Gan of Aurora holds back tears as she speaks to reporters about her experience in the Century 16 theater. Hide Caption 22 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre People embrace before a vigil for victims behind the theater where a gunman opened fire on moviegoers. Hide Caption 23 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators work on evidence near the apartment of James Holmes on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 24 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Members of the Aurora Police Department SWAT unit walk near the Holmes' apartment. Hide Caption 25 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Television news crews gather in front of the home of Robert and Arlene Holmes, parents of suspect James Holmes, in San Diego on July 21, 2012. Hide Caption 26 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A popcorn box lies on the ground outside the Century 16 movie theater. Hide Caption 27 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Adariah Legarreta, 4, is comforted by her grandmother Rita Abeyta near the Century 16 Theater in Aurora. Hide Caption 28 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Jessica Ghawi, an aspiring sportscaster, was one of the victims. Hide Caption 29 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman waits for news outside Gateway High School, a few blocks from the scene of the shooting at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 30 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Aurora police chief Daniel J. Oates speaks at a press conference near the Century 16 Theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 31 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Agents search the trash container outside the suspect's apartment in Aurora. Hide Caption 32 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A Federal ATF officer carries protective gear onsite at the home of the shooting suspect. Hide Caption 33 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre President Obama speaks on the shootings at a July 20, 2012, event in Fort Myers, Florida. Hide Caption 34 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Moviegoers are interviewed at the Century Aurora 16. Hide Caption 35 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Officers gather at the theater July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 36 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Investigators were a common sight at the theater on July 20, 2012. Hide Caption 37 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Authorities gather at the shooting suspect's apartment building in Aurora. Police broke a second-floor window to look for explosives the suspect claimed were in the apartment. Hide Caption 38 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Screaming, panicked moviegoers scrambled to escape from the black-clad gunman, who wore a gas mask and randomly shot as he walked up the theater's steps, witnesses said. Hide Caption 39 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Onlookers gather outside the Century Aurora 16 theater. Hide Caption 40 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre A woman sits on top of her car near the crime scene. Hide Caption 41 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Police block access to the Town Center mall after the shooting. Hide Caption 42 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Cell phone video taken by someone at the theater showed scores of people screaming and fleeing the building. Some, like this man, had blood on their clothes. Hide Caption 43 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre Witnesses told KUSA the gunman kicked in an emergency exit door and threw a smoke bomb into the darkened theater before opening fire. Hide Caption 44 of 45 Photos: Colorado movie theater massacre What is believed to be the suspect's car is examined after the shooting. Hide Caption 45 of 45Holmes, 27, a former doctoral student in neuroscience, is standing trial on charges of capital murder and other offenses. He is accused of killing 12 people and injuring 70 more. He faces 165 counts. Holmes has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. Prosecutors have said they will seek the death penalty.Nine months pregnantKatie Medley was just a week away from delivering her baby when she and her husband went to see the new Batman movie "The Dark Knight Rises" at a midnight show.They picked a seat that would give them a quick exit in case she went into labor.Medley saw someone interrupt the movie."I saw him step in. He was wearing a (gas) mask and Kevlar. He had a longer gun with a scope on it," Medley said.Medley and many other theatergoers dived for the floor.But not her husband, Caleb.He was still seated. His wife couldn't understand why, she testified."I looked up because I wanted to ask him, like, what are you doing, why are you still sitting in the chair and that's when I saw blood pouring from his face and I knew that he had been shot in the head," Medley said.She thought he was dead. He wasn't. But he was shot in the eye. She later noticed he was breathing and choking on his own blood, she said.Fearing the gunman would kill people row by row, Medley decided to save herself and her pregnancy, and she grabbed her husband's hand."He squeezed my hand," Medley said. "I told him that I loved him and that I would take care of our baby if he didn't make it."Giving birth while husband is in brain surgeryHer husband was taken to the hospital, where the "doctor made it pretty clear it was bad," Medley said. "He had lost his right eye and had significant brain damage."Two days after the July 20, 2012, shooting, Medley went into induced labor and gave birth to a boy, Hugo, in the same hospital where his father, Caleb, was fighting for his life."He was literally in brain surgery when I was in labor," Medley testified. It was his third brain surgery since being shot.Caleb Medley survived the shooting after being placed in a medically induced coma for about four weeks. But he cannot walk and can barely speak.JUST WATCHED Victims' parents want "no notoriety" for mass shooters Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Victims' parents want "no notoriety" for mass shooters 10:14In his own testimony on Tuesday, Caleb Medley responded to a prosecutor's questions through an interpreter. He also answered with grunts and by pointing to letters on a board to spell out his responses. He spelled out his last name that way, and he uttered a grunt to confirm he was married to Katie Medley."Mr. Medley, did you go to the Century 16 movie theater in Aurora, Colorado, on July 19 of 2012? Could you spell that answer, please?" a prosecutor asked.Y-E-S were the letters that Caleb Medley chose."No more questions," the prosecutor said.'Take me to heaven'Rita Paulina recounted how she was shot and felt she was about to bleed to death in the cinema.She had a bullet in her leg and two more in her arm, and she told her husband, Anggiat Mora, to save himself and their son, Prodeo."I told my husband, 'Just leave me here, you go out with my son. I'm ready to die here,' " Paulina said. "My husband said, 'No, we promised we'd go together back to Indonesia next year.' "Her husband pulled her out of the theater and then carried her on his back."I prayed to God that if I would have died there, he would take me to heaven," she testified.Shock and tearsThis week's testimony occasionally prompted weeping among victims and relatives in the gallery and even among jurors.During such testimony, Holmes seemed to listen but showed no emotion. His parents, Bob and Arlene, are attending the trial, sitting slightly behind their son and next to journalists. The parents had a new box of tissues at their feet for the trial's opening day Monday, but didn't seem to use any of them. Arlene Holmes occasionally cupped her hand near her mouth Wednesday.JUST WATCHED Warning was sent about Aurora suspect Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Warning was sent about Aurora suspect 06:23The media and Holmes' family, including his uncle on Monday, sat on one side of the gallery. Survivors and relatives of victims sat on the other side.Many relatives and some jurors cried Monday when Aurora police Sgt. Michael Hawkins testified how he tried to save 6-year-old Veronica Moser-Sullivan."I became aware of her bleeding all over me and her bladder voiding all over me and I looked down and realized she was probably gone," Hawkins said. "It was a little girl named Veronica."Trying to save the girlKaylan Bailey was 13 years old when she went to the movie, she testified.Now 16, she thought the gunman "was originally a prank," she testified.Then, she said, "this rocket thing shot across the theater."Veronica's mother used her own body to cover her daughter, Bailey said."I remember she kept screaming Veronica's name, and I kept telling her that she was OK," Bailey said.JUST WATCHED Aurora theater reopening angers families Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Aurora theater reopening angers families 05:28Bailey put her hand on Veronica's stomach and felt her breathing. But then it stopped, Bailey said.Bailey called 911."She told me to give Veronica CPR and I told her that I couldn't because Ashley, her mom, was on top of her and I couldn't reach her chest," Bailey said.Authorities tried to clear the cinema in case there was a second shooter."If it's got a pulse, get them out of here," testified Officer Annette Brook, who has been on the Aurora force for 23 years.Prosecutors respond to insanity defenseHolmes admits to the shootings but has said he was suffering "a psychotic episode" at the time, according to court papers filed in July 2013 by the state public defenders, Daniel King and Tamara A. Brady.JUST WATCHED FBI: Holmes' apartment rigged to kill Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH FBI: Holmes' apartment rigged to kill 04:32During opening statements this week, District Attorney George Brauchler told the jury that two court-ordered "sanity exams" conducted by Dr. Jeff Metzner and Dr. William Reid concluded "that the guy was sane" -- referring to Holmes -- when he allegedly opened fire at the theater. The results of the two exams had been under seal before the trial.Brauchler said the two doctors may have come up with different diagnoses for Holmes' mental illness, but they agreed he was not insane and they agreed he had a "superior intellect." He reportedly told doctors he believed he could increase his self-worth by killing people.A video of Holmes and a psychiatristProsecutors showed a video in court of a discussion between Holmes and Reid during the second sanity examination, on July 31, 2014."I only count fatalities," Holmes told the psychiatrist.Reid asked if there is a difference between the wounded and the deceased."Yes," Holmes said. "The dead can't be repaired or come back to life or be normal again."JUST WATCHED James Holmes offers guilty plea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH James Holmes offers guilty plea 02:31"It's irreversible," Holmes added.The doctor asked if that was something positive."Right," Holmes said.What about the wounded, the doctor asked."Collateral damage," Holmes replied.Survivors and victims' relatives gasped in the gallery and emitted sounds of disgust.Holmes' notebookProsecutors also revealed for the first time the contents of Holmes' notebook, which was initially addressed to his mom, dad and sister, although he eventually sent it to his University of Colorado psychiatrist, Dr. Lynne Fenton.Brauchler said that within the notebook, Holmes talks about the meaning of life and death and about what he thinks is wrong with him."He also talks about longstanding hatred of mankind," the district attorney said.JUST WATCHED Dad: Holmes should be 'exterminated' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dad: Holmes should be 'exterminated' 04:04The notebook reportedly includes a detailed analysis of how to attack the theater.Prosecutors also showed photos of Holmes taken before the mass shooting: He was wearing black contacts, with bright orange hair and his tongue sticking out. Holmes posted the photo on Adult Friend Finder, a website for individuals looking for sexual relationships.Holmes told Reid during the second sanity exam that he wanted to "look dangerous" in the photos, prosecutors said. Holmes also said he was more likely to be remembered as someone more than mundane.Many of the relatives are asking the media to withhold Holmes' name from their stories because the families assert that mass killers commit atrocities for publicity and attention.Holmes now has a different appearance, with short brown hair, glasses, a slight beard and mustache.