(CNN) A shooting incident in Texas ignites a free speech debate. Baltimore tries to put last week behind it. And Britain's newest princess meets her family.It's Monday, and here are five things to know for your New Day.TEXAS SHOOTING: Who were the two men who opened fire outside a contest for Prophet Mohammed cartoons in a Dallas suburb? The men were shot dead by police last night, but details about their religion or motive weren't immediately known. The keynote speaker at the event was right-wing Dutch politician Geert Wilders, who was placed on an al Qaeda hit list, and it was sponsored by the American Freedom Defense initiative, considered by some to be an anti-Muslim group. The shooting quickly reignited the debate on free speech versus provocation.BALTIMOREReturn to normal?: Not quite, but the Not quite, but the lifting of a citywide curfew yesterday is a big step in that direction for Baltimore. In addition to the end of the curfew, the National Guard is preparing to leave sometime this week and Mondawmin Mall, the flashpoint for last week's riots, reopened yesterday. Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake called the lifting of the curfew and reopening of the mall " a great day for this community." Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan said some 200 businesses in Baltimore -- many minority-owned and lacking insurance -- were lost in the riots. Hogan said it was time to "get people back to normal."JUST WATCHED Pastor brings faith leaders together to heal Baltimore Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pastor brings faith leaders together to heal Baltimore 03:56ISRAEL PROTESTSMore unrest: Police issues also bubbled up in the Middle East yesterday, when a Police issues also bubbled up in the Middle East yesterday, when a protest in Tel Aviv over alleged police mistreatment of Ethiopian Jews turned violent. Authorities used horses, water cannons and smoke to disperse the protesters, who had been chanting "a violent cop should be in jail." They were upset about a video from last week that appears to show an Israeli soldier of Ethiopian descent being assaulted by police. Forty-three protesters were arrested in the chaos. Twelve protesters were injured, along with 57 officers.JUST WATCHED Protests by Ethiopian Jews turn violent Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Protests by Ethiopian Jews turn violent 03:34ROYAL BIRTHMeet the family: She doesn't have a name (yet), but She doesn't have a name (yet), but Britain's newest princess is getting to know her family. The newborn daughter of Prince William and Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, met Prince Charles and his wife Camilla at Kensington Palace yesterday. Aunt Pippa Middleton and grandmother Carol Middleton have also reportedly met the baby. So what about her name? Speculation is rampant, but the top three choices on betting websites are Alice, Charlotte and Olivia.JUST WATCHED The new princess spends her first day at home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The new princess spends her first day at home 01:33BOXINGWhat now?: Now that the "fight of the century" is over, what does boxing do now? The Now that the "fight of the century" is over, what does boxing do now? The Floyd Mayweather-Manny Pacquiao fight may not have had the excitement that its billing promised, but it was, at the very least, a good excuse to get together with friends and pay exorbitant prices for pay-per-view. But will this be the last fight we do that for? Most boxing fans said this bout should have happened five years ago, when both fighters were in their prime. And outside of Mayweather and Pacquiao, there aren't any other personalities in the boxing realm that can draw in large numbers of fight fanatics and casual fans (and their money). Boxing's best best? Crank up the rematch hype machine.Photos: The main event Floyd Mayweather reportedly made over $300 million from beating Manny Pacquiao in the richest fight in boxing history in May -- and he's already splashed out $4.8 million of that on a new car. Hide Caption 1 of 26 Photos: The main event Floyd Mayweather Jr. looks at the crowd as he celebrates his unanimous decision victory against Manny Pacquiao in Las Vegas on Saturday, May 2. Hide Caption 2 of 26 Photos: The main event Mayweather left, hugs Pacquiao after defeating him in their welterweight unification bout. Hide Caption 3 of 26 Photos: The main event Mayweather celebrates his victory over Pacquiao. The bout went the full 12 rounds. Hide Caption 4 of 26 Photos: The main event Manny Pacquiao reacts after his fight against Floyd Mayweather. Hide Caption 5 of 26 Photos: The main event Floyd Mayweather won the World Boxing Organization's title and retained the World Boxing Association and World Boxing Council belts. Hide Caption 6 of 26 Photos: The main event Trainer Freddie Roach adjusts Manny Pacquiao's mouth guard at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas.. Hide Caption 7 of 26 Photos: The main event Floyd Mayweather was the victor in the welterweight world championship unification bout. Hide Caption 8 of 26 Photos: The main event Floyd Mayweather is now 48-0 with 26 knockouts. Pacquiao is 57-6-2 with 38 knockouts.Hide Caption 9 of 26 Photos: The main event Beyonce Knowles and Jay Z attend the welterweight unification championship bout. Hide Caption 10 of 26 Photos: The main event Model Cassie Ventura, left, and Sean "Diddy" Combs pose ringside. Hide Caption 11 of 26 Photos: The main event Floyd Mayweather throws a nasty left at Manny Pacquiao. Hide Caption 12 of 26 Photos: The main event Floyd Mayweather, who looked strong late, connects during the 12-round fight. Hide Caption 13 of 26 Photos: The main event Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao exchange punches on Saturday, May 2, at their championship fight in Las Vegas. Hide Caption 14 of 26 Photos: The main event Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao go toe to toe. Hide Caption 15 of 26 Photos: The main event Floyd Mayweather connects with a strong left on Manny Pacquiao at the welterweight world championship unification fight. Hide Caption 16 of 26 Photos: The main event Manny Pacquiao throws a right at Floyd Mayweather on Saturday, May 2. Hide Caption 17 of 26 Photos: The main event Floyd Mayweather has a right of his own at the MGM Grand Garden Arena. Hide Caption 18 of 26 Photos: The main event Mike Tyson at ringside during the Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao bout. Hide Caption 19 of 26 Photos: The main event Manny Pacquiao acknowledges the crowd before the start of his welterweight world championship unification bout against Floyd Mayweather. Hide Caption 20 of 26 Photos: The main event Floyd Mayweather enters the ring before taking on the Philippines-born Manny Pacquiao on Saturday, May 2. Hide Caption 21 of 26 Photos: The main event Paris Hilton enters the arena before the start of the bout between Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao on May 2, 2015, in Las Vegas. Hide Caption 22 of 26 Photos: The main event Actor and director Ben Affleck poses ringside before the big fight in Las Vegas at the MGM Grand Garden Arena. Hide Caption 23 of 26 Photos: The main event Singer Mary J. Blige attends the bout. Hide Caption 24 of 26 Photos: The main event Actor Michael Keaton is ringside for the long-anticipated bout. Hide Caption 25 of 26 Photos: The main event Donald Trump and model Melania Trump at ringside. Hide Caption 26 of 26Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Young fighter: This 5-year-old boy channels his inner Bruce Lee.Ninja cat: Watch this sneaky kitty execute a perfect sneak attack on two buddies.embedcodeNew toy: A baby elephant has fun with his bathtub.Remake: Two cellists go to work on Michael Jackson's "They Don't Care About Us."Open it up: Since "unboxing" videos are all the rage, watch "Weird Al" Yankovic unbox his 2015 Grammy award.