(CNN) ISIS takes over yet another city. Oil spill cleanup continues on the California coast. And David Letterman says goodbye and goodnight.It's Thursday, and here are five things to know for your New Day:ISISISIS militants grabbed control of the Syrian city of Tadmur , which is close to the ancient ruins of Palmyra, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. ISIS controlled most of Tadmur by yesterday evening, after Syrian government forces fled to the city's security headquarters. Many fear that ISIS will destroy Palmyra's ruins, just like the militants destroyed the ancient city of Nimrud and took sledgehammers to statues in Iraq's Mosul Museum.BIN LADENTreasure trove: Osama bin Laden apparently did a lot of : Osama bin Laden apparently did a lot of reading and writing during his final years spent hiding out in a compound in Pakistan. At least that's what the release yesterday of 103 documents -- taken during the May 2011 Navy SEAL raid that killed him -- seems to indicate. Bin Laden was still obsessed with killing Americans and urged other jihadist militants to abandon all but U.S.-related targets. At the same time bin Laden was focused on his family, exchanging letters with his many wives and children, and even expressing excitement about an upcoming wedding. The documents also hint at the size and nature of the bureaucracy of al Qaeda at the time and of the extensive digital library that bin Laden had assembled, a library that often included titles on terrorism by American think tanks.JUST WATCHED Osama bin Laden secrets revealed in new documents Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Osama bin Laden secrets revealed in new documents 02:01CALIFORNIA OIL SPILLCleanup begins: The ruptured pipeline near Santa Barbara may have spilled as much as The ruptured pipeline near Santa Barbara may have spilled as much as 105,000 gallons of crude oil on the California coastline. That's the worst-case scenario estimate from Houston-based Plains All American Pipeline, the company that owns the pipeline. An estimated 21,000 gallons made it into the Pacific Ocean. The cause of the spill is not yet known, but there were problems reported Tuesday morning at a pair of pump stations.JUST WATCHED This is what California's oil spill looks like Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH This is what California's oil spill looks like 01:27SOUTH CHINA SEA'Please go away': That's what the Chinese navy told a U.S. surveillance plane yesterday, as the plane That's what the Chinese navy told a U.S. surveillance plane yesterday, as the plane flew over islands in the South China Sea that China is using to extend its zone of influence. The series of man-made islands and the massive Chinese military build-up on them have alarmed the Pentagon, which is carrying out the surveillance flights in order to make clear the U.S. does not recognize China's territorial claims. The Chinese navy issued eight warnings to the plane; the American pilots told them the plane was flying through international airspace.JUST WATCHED High stakes surveillance over the South China Sea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH High stakes surveillance over the South China Sea 03:47RAND PAULNSA 'filibuster': Paul did it again. Two years after his 13-hour drone policy filibuster, the Kentucky senator and 2016 GOP presidential candidate took over the Senate floor yesterday afternoon to Paul did it again. Two years after his 13-hour drone policy filibuster, the Kentucky senator and 2016 GOP presidential candidate took over the Senate floor yesterday afternoon to rail against the NSA . The Senate is considering reauthorizing the section of the Patriot Act that involves the NSA's bulk collection of phone metadata on millions of Americans. Paul slammed the collecting of the phone records, calling it symptomatic of a bullying, out-of-control government. Paul spoke for 10 hours, ending his unofficial "filibuster" just before midnight Eastern time.Photos: Rand Paul's political life U.S. Sen. Rand Paul delivers remarks while announcing his candidacy for the Republican presidential nomination during an event in Louisville, Kentucky, on Tuesday, April 7. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul and his wife, Kelley, wave to supporters in Louisville on April 7. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul speaks in Rochester, New Hampshire, prior to meeting potential voters in March. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul walks on stage before speaking at the Values Voter Summit in Washington in September. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul attends a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on Syria in September. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul speaks at a news conference in June about the U.S. role in Syria. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Speaking at the University of California at Berkeley in March 2014, Paul speaks on the issues of privacy and curtailing domestic surveillance. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul addresses the 2014 Conservative Political Action Conference, where he easily won the presidential straw poll. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life From left, U.S. Sens. Cory Booker, Kirsten Gillibrand and Paul attend a March 2014 news conference to announce a new medical marijuana bill at the U.S. Capitol in Washington. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life In February 2014, Paul announced that he was suing President Barack Obama and top national security officials over the government's electronic surveillance program made public by intelligence leaker Edward Snowden. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul leaves the Capitol in March 2013 after staging a filibuster over the nomination of CIA Director John Brennan. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Ethics laws prevent senators from accepting payment for any job other that their duties in Washington. So Paul, a veteran eye surgeon, performs pro-bono procedures to keep current on his practice. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul speaks in Bowie, Maryland, in March 2013 during a discussion on reforming the criminal justice system. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul and his father speak with supporters in Ames, Iowa, before the start of a 2012 presidential campaign event. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul boards an elevator after attending a Republican caucus meeting in Washington in July 2011. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul unveils his own version of the federal budget during a news conference in March 2011. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul speaks to hometown supporters in Bowling Green, Kentucky, during his campaign for the Senate in November 2010. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul and his family celebrate his 2010 Senate victory during an election night party in Bowling Green. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Coming from his son's soccer game, Paul wears shorts and a suit jacket while preparing for his guest spot on a Fox News television program in May 2010. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Rand Paul's political life Paul waits to tour a mine in Pineville, Kentucky, in May 2010. Hide Caption 20 of 20Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Goodbye, Dave: David Letterman's final "Late Show," was sweet, funny and star-studded. Check out the highlights.JUST WATCHED Top moments from David Letterman finale Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Top moments from David Letterman finale 01:54Motorcycle surfing: Who needs a surfboard and open water when you have a bike and open road?Beautiful: 100 years of Filipino beauty in a little over a minute.Baby meets avocado: A baby gets introduced to avocados, but don't count on her becoming a fan.Mom!: Mom does a face plant in the sand during daughter's proposal.