(CNN) Another earthquake rocks Nepal. Another blogger is hacked to death in Bangladesh. And Tom Brady gets hammered by the NFL.It's Tuesday, and here are five things to know for your New Day.NEPAL EARTHQUAKE: Nepal was rocked by a magnitude 7.3 earthquake today, less than three weeks after a magnitude 7.8 quake in the Himalayan nation killed more than 8,000 people. Today's quake was centered in a remote area of eastern Nepal, near the border with China, about 83 kilometers east of Kathmandu, the Nepali capital that was devastated in the earlier quake. Journalists on the ground when the quake struck describe people running into the streets and the collapse of already damaged houses.BANGLADESHI BLOGGERSAnother attack: An atheist in Bangladesh who had posted online posts critical of Islam is the latest blogger to be : An atheist in Bangladesh who had posted online posts critical of Islam is the latest blogger to be hacked to death in the country. Ananta Bijoy Das was killed this morning as he left his home to go to work. Four masked men attacked him, hacking him to death with cleavers and machetes. Das' death was at least the third this year of a blogger who was killed after criticizing Islam online. In each case, the attacks happened publicly on city streets. No one has been arrested in Das' death, but police said they are following up on interviewing people who saw the attack.JUST WATCHED Third blogger hacked to death in Bangladesh Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Third blogger hacked to death in Bangladesh 02:05GEORGE ZIMMERMANRoad shooting: George Zimmerman was : George Zimmerman was shot at yesterday , during some kind of altercation in traffic with another motorist. Zimmerman, acquitted by a Florida jury in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin, was hit by glass from a window but suffered only minor injuries. Police said the man who shot at Zimmerman -- Matthew Apperson -- is the same person who called police last year because he felt threatened by Zimmeran. No arrests have been made or charges filed in relation to the shooting, Details of what led to the shooting will be determined by the ongoing investigation, police said.JUST WATCHED Zimmerman shooting bystander: 'He seems like an animal' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Zimmerman shooting bystander: 'He seems like an animal' 03:08DEFLATEGATEDeflated: The NFL The NFL dropped the hammer on Tom Brady and the New England Patriots yesterday over Deflategate. The league suspended Brady for four games without pay and hit the Patriots with a $1 million fine and took away a first-round draft pick in next year's draft (as well as a fourth-round pick in the 2017 draft). The punishment comes after last week's release of a report by attorney Ted Wells, who was hired by the league to investigate allegations of game balls being tampered with. Wells found that "it is more probable than not" that Brady was aware that Patriots employees were deflating game balls before January's AFC Championship game. The NFL said Brady's actions were detrimental to the integrity of the sport. Brady's agent promised to appeal the decision.JUST WATCHED Tom Brady gets four-game suspension Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tom Brady gets four-game suspension 01:32BIN LADEN RAID'Blatant lie': That's what acclaimed investigative journalist Seymour Hersh wrote about circumstances surrounding the That's what acclaimed investigative journalist Seymour Hersh wrote about circumstances surrounding the 2011 killing of Osama bin Laden . Citing an anonymous "major U.S. source," Hersh alleges that the Obama administration cooperated with Pakistani intelligence officials to kill bin Laden, and that high-level Pakistani army and intelligence officials knew about the mission, contrary to Obama's claim that Pakistani officials weren't aware of the raid in advance. The White House dismissed the report as "baseless."JUST WATCHED Hersh on bin Laden raid: White House account is bogus Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hersh on bin Laden raid: White House account is bogus 05:22Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Road song: What type of car radio singer are you? (I'm No. 4)Dr. robot: Watch a robotic surgeon stitch a grape back together.embedcodeHeartwarming: A blind, pregnant woman "sees" her unborn child by feeling a 3D sonogram.Nauseating: The Burritozilla is a ginormous five-pound burrito. This guy eats it in less than two minutes.Sneaky snake: The kids caught the fish, then a snake took it away.