(CNN) Flood waters hit Texas and Oklahoma. B.B. King's daughters say their dad was poisoned. And the FBI investigates holiday weekend plane threats.It's Tuesday and here are the 5 things to know for your New DaySEVERE WEATHEREpic rainfall and flooding make a deadly combination in parts of Texas and Oklahoma. Six people have lost their lives and 12 more are missing . The heavy rain continued in parts of Texas this morning. The National Weather Service calls its "extremely dangerous and life-threatening." Rescue efforts have had to wait while waters subsided.B.B. KINGExplosive allegations: Two of Two of B.B. King's daughters allege he was poisoned . They say the 89-year-old musician was murdered by a couple of his aides. The Las Vegas Coroner's Officer did an autopsy over the weekend. Coroner John Fudenberg said there's "no evidence to substantiate the allegations." But full forensic results will take six to eight weeks.JUST WATCHED 2006: B.B. King reflects on his career Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 2006: B.B. King reflects on his career 06:05PLANE THREATSNo holiday: The long Memorial Day weekend kept the feds and local authorities busy with at least The long Memorial Day weekend kept the feds and local authorities busy with at least 10 threats against airlines . All turned out to be nothing. Authorities hinted that the threats didn't seem to be credible, but, still, they had to treat them like were. The FBI is now involved.JUST WATCHED Major security scares mar Memorial Day Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Major security scares mar Memorial Day 02:02ISISOffensive: A major military A major military operation to liberate Iraq's Anbar and Salaheddin provinces from ISIS forces is underway. The word came from Iraqi state media and a key Shia militia group today. In Salaheddin province, the forces are trying to cut an ISIS supply route and liberate Baiji. In Anbar province, the military operations will be in Karna, northeast of Falluja, and around Ramadi. ISIS fighters swept into Ramadi on May 17, tightening their control of the area.JUST WATCHED Iraq forces begin military operations in Anbar Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iraq forces begin military operations in Anbar 02:01RAY MCDONALDOff the team: The Chicago Bears booted defensive end Ray McDonald from the squad yesterday after he was arrested on domestic violence and child endangerment charges in California. McDonald was dropped by the San Francisco 49ers last year following accusations of sexual assault. The charges were later dropped.JUST WATCHED Ray McDonald fired from Chicago Bears Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ray McDonald fired from Chicago Bears 01:28Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a couple of others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.A punny outting: How to annoy your girlfriend while shopping.Closet critter: The challenges of having a mama possum move into your house.Speak, boy, speak: Brody the dog not only talks, he has an indoor voice too.Please rise for our national anthem: SNL alum Maya Rudolph belts out a stylized version of the "Star Spangled Banner" during her commencement address at Tulane University.