Boston (CNN) I'm a big fan of closing arguments. It's that time in a trial when the lawyers wax rhetorical and either rise to the occasion or stumble as they try to convince the jury to buy into their version of the case.This week, at the penalty phase of the Boston Marathon bomber's trial, the closing arguments were dramatic and emotionally compelling.No cameras have been allowed at the Tsarnaev trial. But CNN's Ann O'Neill has been there every day. Think of her as The 13th Juror , bringing insights here weekly. And follow @AnnoCNN on Twitter daily.A good lawyer uses a closing argument to expound on big concepts and little details alike. The best arguments frame the toughest issues of our times in masterful oratory that finds a permanent place in our cultural lexicon.Atticus Finch wasn't real, but I wish he were -- and I wish there were more lawyers like him. His case in Harper Lee's "To Kill a Mockingbird" nailed a social issue that still haunts us a half-century later: racism in the criminal justice system. The motives behind the prosecution of a black man who kissed a white woman were cynical and racist, and he called them out on it.But Finch's argument cut through the cynicism:"In this country," he said, "our courts are the great levelers, and in our courts, all men are created equal. I'm no idealist to believe firmly in the integrity of our courts and of our jury system. That's no ideal to me. That is a living, working reality."That enduring belief in the legal system drove Clarence Darrow, whose closing argument probably saved Leopold and Loeb from the gallows in the 1920s; prosecutor Vincent Bugliosi, whose closing took on the murderous, helter skelter madness that was Charles Manson; Bobby DeLaughter, who brought the killer of civil rights leader Medgar Evers to justice after 30 years; and William Kunstler, who challenged the establishment in defense of the Chicago Seven:JUST WATCHED Life in a Supermax prison Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Life in a Supermax prison 01:46"You can crucify a Jesus, you can poison a Socrates, you can hang John Brown or Nathan Hale, you can kill a Che Guevara, you can jail a Eugene Debs or a Bobby Seale. You can assassinate John Kennedy or a Martin Luther King, but the problems remain," Kunstler said in defense of yippies charged with inciting riots at the 1968 Democratic National Convention."The hangman's rope never solved a single problem except that of one man."It's a frequently quoted one-liner from a closing argument that perfectly captured the flavor of its time even if the Chicago Seven trial wasn't a capital case.But perhaps the best one-liner to come out of a closing argument, though, stems from a bloody glove and Johnnie Cochran's defense of O.J. Simpson: "If it doesn't fit, you must acquit."We don't know yet where United States vs. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev will land in the legal history books, but the closing arguments were among the best I've seen.There were no cameras in the courtroom, so they won't be making the rounds on YouTube. You'll have to listen with your eyes, just as I did when I read "To Kill a Mockingbird" as a child. I didn't have an iPad, I had a library card.Listen with your eyes and you will hear more than any Twitter feed can give.Steve Mellin, a prosecutor with the Justice Department's capital punishment unit, brilliantly contrasted the havoc and heartbreak with the man who caused it.Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Martin Richard, 8, was in the second grade and loved the Red Sox. He was the middle of three children and is best known for a school project in which he made a poster with a peace sign and the words "No more hurting people." He was less than 4 feet from the second bomb. He bled to death as his mother leaned over him, begging him to live. Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Lingzi Lu, 23, was a graduate student from China, studying statistics. A gifted musician and public speaker, she was enjoying her time in the United States. She decided to watch the Boston Marathon as a study break. The second bomb sliced her leg open from hip to toe, and she bled to death. Her aunt called her "a beautiful nerd." Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Krystle Campbell, 29, was remembered by her father as his "Princess," but she loved sports and the outdoors and "wasn't a girly girl," he said. She put on big family parties and was close to her brother. She was working as a restaurant manager. She was burned and cut by hot shrapnel from the first bomb and bled to death. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Sean Collier, 26, grew up in a big "Brady Bunch"-blended family and always wanted to be a police officer. He viewed the world from a moral stance, and felt a strong sense of right and wrong. He loved to race cars with his brother and go on family vacations. He was shot to death in his patrol car on the MIT campus because the Tsarnaev brothers wanted his gun to use in their escape. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Celeste Corcoran, left, and her daughter, Sydney Corcoran, recovered in the same hospital room. Doctors were able to save Sydney's leg, but Celeste lost both of hers. Sydney recalled how she felt the life drain from her body and believed she was dying. Celeste felt great frustration when she couldn't rush to her daughter's side. "I never forget I'm a double amputee," Celeste said. "There's always a level of discomfort." Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Adrianne Haslet-Davis is a ballroom dancer. She remembers walking through the crowd on Boylston Street, holding hands with her husband, Adam, and feeling happy and in love. Then the bombs went off. Her husband, who is in the military, told her they'd been in a terrorist attack. But the second bomb went off before they could leave. She knew immediately something was wrong with her foot, and could see blood everywhere. She couldn't hear her own screams and thought she was dead. They were dragged into the Forum restaurant, and a first responder recalled hearing her husband apologize to her over and over for bringing her to the event. She testified that he recently checked himself into a Veterans Affairs mental health program. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Erika Brannock was the last bomb survivor to leave the hospital. She came to the marathon from her home in suburban Maryland to cheer her mother on and was excited about being able to get so close to the finish line. Her sister, Nicole Gross, testified that she recalled pushing Brannock through the crowd so they could get closer. "I said, 'One, two, three, go,' and as soon as I said, 'Go,' the bomb went off," Gross said. Brannock told reporters in 2013 that she saw flashes of orange and yellow light and was knocked to the pavement. She couldn't move her foot and thought she was going to die. She said she's had moments when she was angry with the bombers but "I can't waste my energy being angry. I need to save energy for getting well and for being with people who care about me and want me to get better." Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Jeff Bauman remembers looking down at his legs. "It was just pure carnage. I could see my bones and the flesh sticking out, and I just went into tunnel vision. I thought this is really messed up, this is messed up, that's all I said in my head. This is how it's going to end. This is it. I had a great life. I saw the world. I played sports growing up. I had a lot of friends ... I made peace with myself at that point." Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Heather Abbott was outside the Forum restaurant when the second bomb went off. "I was catapulted through the doors of the restaurant, which was open. I landed in a puddle of chaos and blood and glass. People were running in herds by me, through the restaurant to get to the back exit, away from where the bomb was." Her foot was badly mangled, and she decided to amputate below the knee. She wears a prosthetic with toes and a high heel. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured J.P. Norden, left, and his brother, Paul Norden, did not testify during the trial, preferring to put the bombing behind them. Their mother, Liz, is outspoken in the survivor community. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Karen Rand McWatters lost a leg -- and one of her best friends. She and Krystle Campbell spent the day laughing and posting selfies on Facebook before heading to the finish line. She was knocked to the ground by the first blast, and heard the second before she could understand what was happening. Her foot was turned in the wrong direction, but she dragged herself toward Campbell. She couldn't see how badly hurt her friend was. "I got close to her head, and we put our faces together. She very slowly said her legs hurt, and we held hands and very shortly after her hand went limp and we never spoke again." Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Mery Daniel, a young mother from Haiti, was attending her second marathon when she was knocked to the pavement. She lost a leg, and the other leg was also damaged. She had pushed herself from ESL classes all the way to medical school, and instead found herself relearning how to walk with a prosthesis. She wears her "Boston Strong" T-shirt proudly. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Marc Fucarile was at the marathon with friends, and was struck by hot shrapnel from the second bomb. His pants caught fire, and he suffered burns over 90% of his lower body. His belt buckle was so hot, it burned his hand when he tried to undo it. One leg was blown off at the scene, and he's still trying to save the other, but might not win that battle, he said. He's had more skin grafts than he can remember. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Patrick Downes and Jessica Kensky Downes met when they were interns on Capitol Hill. She lost both legs and was pushed into court in a wheelchair. Her aide dog, Rescue, lay beside her as she testified. "I remember being happy, I remember feeling sunlight on my face. I remember feeling free." And then the bomb went off. Because she is a nurse, she focused on saving her husband. His foot and part of his leg were hanging by a thread. She remembers screaming, and not being able to hear anything. This photo was taken before she decided to amputate her second leg in January. "I wanted to paint my toenails and put my feet in the sand. I wanted all of those things, and to lose my second leg was a gut-wrenching decision." Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Rebekah Gregory was celebrating her birthday weekend at the marathon with family and friends. She remembers coming to after the blast and reaching for her 5-year-old son, Noah. She could see bones protruding from her arm. She also lost a leg below the knee. Like many bomb survivors, she was convinced she was going to die that day. She is using a blade to run again. After she testified, she wrote a note to Dzhokhar Tsarnaev on her Facebook page saying she is not afraid of him. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Roseann Sdoia had run a 5K the day before the marathon. She heard the first bomb and decided to run for it. Then she saw two explosions of white light at her feet. She knew she'd lost a leg before she hit the ground. She saw a severed foot with a sock and remembers asking herself if she wore socks that day. "It was somebody else's foot." She thought she'd rather die than live as an amputee but then considered all the people she'd be leaving behind. So she willed herself to stay conscious and fight. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Jane Richard, in the pink skirt, lost her leg. She holds the hand of her brother Henry as they walk down Boylston Street with their parents and others after an April 15 ceremony this year. She was standing next to her brother Martin behind a metal barricade when the second bomb went off. Her father, Bill, took one look at Martin, knew he wouldn't make it and focused his efforts on saving Jane. She sang in April at Fenway Park on opening day. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Mary Jo White and Bill White, right, had gone with son Kevin into the city for lunch and were on their way back to "the T," as Boston's public transportation system is called, when they decided to stop by the finish line. They were just feet away from the first bomb. Bill, a veteran who earned a Purple Heart in Vietnam, lost his leg above the knee. Kevin, who serves as the family spokesman, says his parents, who are in their 70s, don't like to talk about the events of April 15, 2013. He told his local newspaper he "really has no feelings" for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Steve Woolfenden, a biomedical researcher, was pushing his son, Leo, in a stroller along Boylston Street. His wife was running the marathon, and they were making their way to the finish line when the first bomb went off. He started to turn the stroller around in the crowd, but the second blast caught them. Woolfenden's leg was severed on the scene. He could see it still in the boot next to him, the tibia protruding. His focus was on Leo and getting him help. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Boston bombing: The dead and injured Leo Woolfenden was lifted from his stroller by a first responder as the boy's father lay on the ground with a severed leg. Leo suffered a skull fracture.Hide Caption 20 of 20Mellin's performance was classic. He took long, dramatic pauses, solemnly named the dead and wounded, described "a river of blood" and even seemed to choke up as he spoke of one of the bombing victims."There is so much death and loss and devastation in this case, it's hard to know where to begin," he said. "The defendant planted a bomb that led to painful eulogies and terrifying memories. Surviving family members were left to attend to funerals and live lives with bittersweet memories of those lost forever and painful reminders of what could have been."And then he struggled to maintain his composure as he read from a poem written by the father of Lingzi Lu, a 23-year-old grad student from China:In tears, we hear you say, the forever young,"Dear Dad and Mom, don't cry,I love you!If there is an after-life, I will be your daughter again!""Her father said, 'She's gone. How can our living go on?' So unbelievably sad, and yet so true. Their pain will never go away."And then there was Tsarnaev, a man he said was a terrorist convinced he had done right, caught on camera in a courthouse holding cell three months later."The defendant comes into court to be formally charged with murdering a little boy, murdering two women and a police officer," Mellin said. "He has had months to reflect on the pain and suffering that he has caused. But when he's put in that holding cell, you cannot see a trace of remorse on his face. He paces, he fluffs his hair, and he makes obscene gestures at the marshals watching over him."Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A jury condemned Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to death on Friday, May 15, for his role in killing four people and wounding hundreds more in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. See photos that were released as evidence in his trial. Hide Caption 1 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This undated photo of a young Tsarnaev with his brother, Tamerlan, was shown by the defense in the sentencing phase of the trial. Tamerlan died after being shot by police and run over by a car driven by his brother in the massive manhunt that followed the bombings. Hide Caption 2 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Katie Russell met Tamerlan Tsarnaev at a nightclub and dropped out of college to marry him. Her mother, Judith Russell, testified that Tamerlan came between Katie and her family and that Katie became isolated. She eventually converted to Islam and changed her name to Karima Tsarnaeva. She was the breadwinner. But when company came for dinner, she cooked, served the men and then retired to another room. Hide Caption 3 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This collection of photos of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in his wrestling days was introduced by the defense. Hide Caption 4 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This photo of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, recovered from his computer, was shown during the sentencing phase. Hide Caption 5 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image shows victims' positions in the crowd prior to the Boston Marathon bombings on April 15, 2013. Hide Caption 6 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev "flips the bird" in a jail cell during his first arraignment on July 10, 2013. The image was presented to jurors in the sentencing phase of his trial. Hide Caption 7 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Tsarnaev poses in front of a black standard adopted by various militant Islamist groups in this Instagram photo that was entered as evidence. Hide Caption 8 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say Tsarnaev was a self-radicalized jihadist who pored over militant writings, including the article "How to Build a Bomb in the Kitchen of Your Mom." It was found on his laptop and other devices, part of a full-edition download of Inspire magazine, a glossy English-language propaganda tool put out by al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Hide Caption 9 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This Russian manual on how to fire a handgun was found in the apartment where Tsarnaev's brother, Tamerlan, lived. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 10 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This copy of The Sovereign, which calls itself the "newspaper of the resistance," was also found in Tamerlan Tsarnaev's apartment. Hide Caption 11 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Pictured here is a box of bullets found on a street after the shootout in Watertown. The brothers' fingerprints were on the box, prosecutors said. Hide Caption 12 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A pressure cooker was embedded in the side of a resident's Honda during the Watertown shootout. Hide Caption 13 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Photos of the Watertown shootout were entered into evidence. Neighbors came to their windows and then retreated. One grabbed his infant son and headed toward the back of his house with his wife. Another grabbed a camera and took photographs from an upstairs window. Hide Caption 14 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence The Tsarnaevs had carjacked a Mercedes SUV in Watertown before the shootout. The vehicle was covered in bulletholes, and the rear window was shattered. Hide Caption 15 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This unexploded pipe bomb was found at the scene of the shootout between police and the Tsarnaev brothers in Watertown. Hide Caption 16 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said these boards were attached to the boat where police found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding. A carved message reads, "Stop killing our innocent people and we will stop." Hide Caption 17 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Smashed phones and an ATM card owned by carjacking victim Dun Meng were in the yard where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found. Hide Caption 18 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this surveillance image shows Tsarnaev visiting an ATM hours before a police chase and chaotic shootout in which more than 200 rounds were fired. Hide Caption 19 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Another view of Tsarnaev's visit to the ATM. Hide Caption 20 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Exhibits related to the shooting death of MIT Officer Sean Collier were introduced to the jury on Wednesday, March 11. This image from the crime scene appears to show a bloody gun. Hide Caption 21 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This burned tank top and yellow hoodie belonged to bombing survivor Jessica Kensky. Hide Caption 22 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this Fox Racing logo was from one of the backpacks containing a bomb. Hide Caption 23 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors say this still image from surveillance video shows Tsarnaev in the UMass Dartmouth gym the day after the bombings. Hide Caption 24 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors showed the jury photos of what they say are Tsarnaev's writings inside the boat he was captured in. Hide Caption 25 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence This image is from a surveillance camera outside the Forum restaurant in Boston's Copley Square just after the bombing. Hide Caption 26 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors presented two Twitter accounts linked to Tsarnaev that, they said, showed targeting the marathon had been on his mind for at least a year. One account, @J_tsar, contained 1,100 tweets and was the more mainstream of the two. On the day of the 2012 Boston Marathon, a tweet from the account read, "They will spend their money & they will regret it & they will be defeated." Hide Caption 27 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Prosecutors said the second Twitter account is evidence that Tsarnaev led a double life. By day, he was a slacker college sophomore. By night, he was a wannabe jihadist, posting on the account @Al_firdausiA. In one tweet, he urged people to listen to radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki's lectures. "You will gain an unbelievable amount of knowledge," he said in March 2013, just weeks before the bombings. Prosecutors also allege in an indictment that Tsarnaev downloaded al-Awlaki's writings, calling him a "well-known al Qaeda propagandist." Al-Awlaki had been killed in a U.S. drone strike in 2011. Hide Caption 28 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Hide Caption 29 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A Boston Marathon bombing victim is tended to in the street. Hide Caption 30 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Victims at the finish line just after the bombing. Hide Caption 31 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Eight-year-old Martin Richard, the youngest victim , can be seen standing on the rail in the front row. Hide Caption 32 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence A closer view of 8-year-old Martin Richard in the crowd before the bombing. Hide Caption 33 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Boston police tend to a wounded child. CNN has chosen not to show the young victim's face. Hide Caption 34 of 35 Photos: Boston Marathon bombing evidence Mayhem along Boylston Street. Hide Caption 35 of 35He described Tsarnaev and his brother Tamerlan as "partners in crime and brothers in arms." Tamerlan died a martyr's death, Mellin said, walking into a wall of police bullets. But Dzhokhar survived."A death sentence is not giving him what he wants. It is giving him what he deserves," Mellin said. "Frankly, it's not even close."Or is it? Defense attorney Judy Clarke has saved several people convicted of hideous crimes from death row. And this week we got to see how.Her closing argument started off slowly, and some of the reporters, myself included, wondered if she'd lost her magic touch. But Clarke was building quiet thunder.She has always owned the defense case by telling it like it is. It's how she maintains credibility while defending people who commit horrible crimes. There's no sugar-coating, no fairy dust. Yes, he did it and it was awful."We've told you that Dzhokhar followed his brother down Boylston because that is the tragic truth," she said. "But if not for Tamerlan, this wouldn't have happened. Dzhokhar would never have done this but for Tamerlan. The tragedy would never have occurred but for Tamerlan. None of it."Like everyone else, Clarke says, she's wondering how an immigrant "kid" everybody liked became the Boston Marathon bomber. She can offer no answers.Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Judy Clarke has defended some of the most notorious criminals in recent American history and has managed to keep several off death row. Click through to see some of the San Diego lawyer's most high-profile cases: Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Clarke joined the defense team for Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev . He was arrested on April 19, 2013, after a massive manhunt following an overnight shootout with police that left his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev -- the other man wanted in the bombings -- dead. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found guilty of all 30 counts that he faced in the Boston bombing trial on April 8, 2015. Seventeen of those counts were capital charges , meaning he is eligible for the death penalty. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Jared Lee Loughner pleaded guilty to the January 2011 attempted assassination of then-U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords. The Arizona shooting killed six people and wounded 13 others, including Giffords. He was diagnosed by two mental health experts as paranoid schizophrenic, and he was sentenced to life in prison under a plea bargain. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Eric Robert Rudolph was defended by Clarke after he pleaded guilty in 2005 to bombing a women's clinic in Birmingham, Alabama, and other bombings, including at the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta. Prosecutors dropped the death penalty after he led them to dynamite caches in North Carolina. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Zacarias Moussaoui, also known as the 20th hijacker in the 9/11 attacks, was defended by Clarke only briefly since he repeatedly fired his lawyers. He abruptly pleaded guilty to terror conspiracy charges in July 2002, though he was not given the death penalty. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Buford O. Furrow was sentenced to five life terms for a shooting spree at a Jewish Community Center in Los Angeles and the fatal shooting of a Filipino-American postal worker in 1999. Prosecutors dropped the death penalty when the defense documented and charted Furrow's long history of psychiatric treatment for bipolar disorder. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Clarke kept Ted Kaczynski, also known as the Unabomber, off death row. He pleaded guilty in January 1998 to making and transporting bomb materials that killed three people. Federal prosecutors backed away from the death penalty after their own expert diagnosed him as a paranoid schizophrenic. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Judy Clarke and her clients Susan Smith was convicted of murdering her two sons by strapping them into a car and rolling the car into a lake in 1994. Clarke portrayed Smith as a woman so tormented by her failures in life that she even failed at her own suicide and jumped out of the car. Smith did not receive the death penalty. Hide Caption 8 of 8"If you're looking to me for a simple and clean answer as to why this young man, who had never been arrested, who had never sassed a teacher, who spent his free time in school working with disabled kids -- if you ask me -- if you expect me to have an answer, a simple, clean answer as to how this could happen, I don't have it. I don't have it."And then she makes the plea to spare his life, putting the decision squarely on the shoulders of each juror. The federal death penalty requires a unanimous vote by all 12 jurors. A lone holdout means a life sentence and a victory for Clarke.As she is fond of saying, "It only takes one."And so, the final moments of her argument were targeted at the "one." She asked, "Is his a life worth saving? Is there hope for him? Is there hope for redemption?" And she pointed out that the law never demands a death sentence."The law values life, and you have no obligation to vote for death. Each one of you, individually, each one of you is a safeguard against the death penalty."She urged jurors not to act out of a need for retribution because "that's not who we are." A life sentence, she argued, "allows the possibility of redemption." It's a sentence that reflects justice and mercy."Mercy's never earned," Clarke said. "It's bestowed. And the law allows you to choose justice and mercy. I ask you to make a decision of strength, a choice that demonstrates the resilience of this community. We ask you to choose life."Atticus Finch would have been proud. But Clarke didn't get the last word. That privilege belongs to the prosecution in any capital case, and Assistant U.S. Attorney William Weinreb has stood as the fatherly moral conscience of this trial.His closing argument came like a punch in the gut after Clarke's "choose life" idealism.Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The second of two explosions goes off near the finish line of the Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013. Three people were killed and at least 264 were injured in the double bombings. Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos A man comforts a victim at the scene of the first explosion. Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Runners react near Kenmore Square after the explosions. Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Rescue workers tend to the wounded on the scene. First responders tried to save lives and limbs before transporting victims to hospitals. Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On April 16, 2013, a vigil was held at Boston's Garvey Park for 8-year-old bombing victim Martin Richard . The other victims were Krystle Campbell , a 29-year-old restaurant manager from Medford, Massachusetts, and Lingzi Lu , a 23-year-old Chinese national attending graduate school at Boston University. Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The city was quiet the day after the tragedy. Here, a young runner, left, sits in a church near the scene of the attack. Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On April 17, 2013, a federal law enforcement source with firsthand knowledge of the investigation told CNN that a lid to a pressure cooker -- thought to have been used in the bombings -- had been found on a roof of a building near the scene. It was one of several pieces of evidence authorities found Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The device also had fragments such as nails, BBs and ball bearings, the FBI said. Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On April 18, 2013, the FBI released photos and video of two suspects in the bombings and asked for the public's help in identifying them. Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The FBI later identified the suspects as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev , left, and his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos FBI Suspect No. 2, later said to be Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, is apparently seen in this picture, far left in white cap. The photo was taken by Boston Marathon runner David Green at the scene of the bombings. Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos The man identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev appears in a tighter crop of Green's photo. Green submitted the photo to the FBI, he told CNN's Piers Morgan in an interview. Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Late on the night of April 18, 2013, police responded to a call that a campus officer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology was shot and killed. Police said a man later reported being carjacked by the brothers. The two were stopped in Watertown, Massachusetts, where police said they threw explosives and shot at the officers. One man, assumed to be Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, drove off. The other, later identified as Tamerlan Tsarnaev, was injured. He died at the hospital. Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis speaks to the media on April 19, 2013, and explains that the city is on lockdown until the surviving suspect is found. Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Officers scoured Watertown, Massachusetts, where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was last seen. Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Frightened residents were questioned near Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's home in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos SWAT teams conducted door-to-door searches in Watertown while looking for the suspect. Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Ruslan Tsarni , uncle of the Tsarnaev brothers, gave an interview April 19, 2013, outside his home in Montgomery Village, Maryland. He urged Tsarnaev to turn himself in. Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos SWAT teams continue to search in Watertown on April 19, 2013. Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos On the evening of April 19, 2013, a Watertown resident called the police and reported seeing a man on a boat in his backyard. Residents ran from the area where police said Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was hiding on Franklin Street. Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Helicopters with infrared devices detected a man under the boat tarp. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's frame is seen in this thermal image released by Massachusetts State Police. Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos Police threw "flash-bangs" -- devices meant to stun people with a loud noise -- and started negotiations with Tsarnaev. He eventually surrendered and was transported to a local hospital in serious condition. Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Boston bombings: The week in photos People wave U.S. flags in Watertown after it was announced that Tsarnaev had been captured. Hide Caption 23 of 23"If you want to know why the defendant committed these crimes, that's the question Ms. Clarke just told you is unanswerable. If you want to know -- if you want an explanation of how he became this person, of what made him do it? What better place to look for the answer than in his own handwritten explanation of his actions?" Weinreb said.During the 18 hours he hid from police in a tarp-covered pleasure boat in a Watertown backyard, Tsarnaev scrawled what prosecutors refer to as the "boat manifesto." Tsarnaev's message, written with a pencil on the sides, was streaked with blood and pocked with bullet holes. Jurors viewed the boat for themselves."He wrote in the boat, 'I'm jealous of my brother who has received the reward of martyrdom, but God has a plan for each person. Mine was to hide in this boat and shed some light on our actions,'" Weinreb said."'God has a plan for each person.' That's who he believed he was doing this for. His god, not Tamerlan Tsarnaev."He said Tsarnaev deserves the death penalty "not because he's inhuman, but because he's inhumane."And then he planted the notion that anything short of a death sentence is letting a callous terrorist off the hook."If you sentence the defendant to life imprisonment, you will be giving him the minimum punishment authorized by law for these crimes," Weinreb said. "It is a lesser punishment than death. Does he deserve the minimum punishment or do these crimes, these four deaths, demand something more?"I don't know if these closing arguments will be taught in law school some day. I don't know if they'll eventually wind up in movies or books. All I know is I was lucky to witness three lawyers who are among the best in the country at what they do, playing at the top of their game.