Story highlights Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl is recovering at a medical center after his release from TalibanArmy reintegration program puts a focus on routineGoal is to give him "the opportunity to make more and more decisions on his own"Like the six other former captives who have been through the Army's reintegration program at Brooke Army Medical Center before him, daily life for Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl is focused on routine.He rises, eats and sleeps on a "normal schedule" and lives in a "typical" room at the huge hospital facility on a floor he shares with other patients.What isn't typical is the security presence outside his door. The reason, says Col. Hans Bush, command spokesman for U.S. Army South, is not to keep the returnee in, but "to make sure he doesn't get overwhelmed in a social setting." In other words, the goal is to prevent someone unwanted by either Bergdahl or his reintegration team from entering.The medical center has a staff of hundreds, but America's newest and perhaps most controversial returnee interacts daily with a very small, intimate circle numbering less than a dozen.One of the most important parts of his routine is storytelling. The returnee personally recounts all that happened from the moment he left the security of his post in Afghanistan, though the five years he survived in captivity, right up until the day he was freed last month. And for the first time, the person telling that story is Bergdahl himself.The listeners are a small group of professionals including a SERE (Survival, Evasion, Resistance, Escape) psychologist, members of his medical team and Army debriefers.Photos: Famous captives: Life after freedom Photos: Famous captives: Life after freedom As long as there has been war, there have been prisoners. And as long as there have been people held by the so-called enemy, there have been some who went free -- whether they escaped, were exchanged or were released. Nearly five years after his capture in Afghanistan, Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl was released last year in exchange for five detainees from the U.S. military detention center in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He has been charged with desertion and misbehavior before the enemy, officials announced Wednesday, March 25. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Famous captives: Life after freedom Andrew Jackson was all of 13 years old when he joined the Patriots in the Revolutionary War. By 1781, he was in British custody -- during which he was slashed by an upset British officer and contracted smallpox, a disease that claimed the life of his brother and fellow captive, Robert. Their mother arranged for their release as part of a prisoner exchange. He would go on to become "Old Hickory," establishing himself as a soldier, a politician and the tough, rugged representation of the American frontier. Jackson's place in U.S. history was cemented in 1828, with his election as the nation's seventh president. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Famous captives: Life after freedom While people nowadays may not know Meriwether Lewis Clark Sr., his name is familiar. He's the son of William Clark and was named after Meriwether Lewis, the two men who led the groundbreaking Lewis and Clark expedition to the Pacific Northwest. A U.S. Military Academy grad and architect whose works helped shape St. Louis, Missouri, Meriwether Lewis Clark Sr. was a high-ranking figure in the Confederate military during the Civil War until his capture in 1865. With the end of the war, Clark ended up in Louisville, Kentucky, and resumed his work as an engineer until his death in 1881. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Famous captives: Life after freedom Winston Churchill was a journalist, not a soldier. Nonetheless, he found himself captured in South Africa in 1899, after Boer soldiers ambushed an armored train. But Churchill, pictured at right with other prisoners, didn't stay in Pretoria for long. Less than a month after his capture, he hurdled a prison wall and walked free. The episode helped catapult Churchill's standing in his native Britain. But he didn't stop there. Churchill went on to become one of his country's most recognizable figures over the subsequent decades, including as its prime minister in the thick of World War II. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Famous captives: Life after freedom When Merian Cooper's plane crashed during World War I, an American general declared Cooper dead, according to the Jacksonville, Florida, Historical Society. In fact, he had been captured by the Germans. Cooper remained in Europe fighting Bolsheviks after his release, then embarked on expeditions to places like modern-day Ethiopia, Iran and Thailand. Upon returning home, Cooper made a name for himself as a movie studio executive and the creator of the iconic King Kong. He kept a foothold in public life right to the end, from joining U.S. forces during World War II to -- one decade later -- backing Sen. Joseph McCarthy in his fight to rid Hollywood and the country of communists. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Famous captives: Life after freedom Charles de Gaulle was a captain in the French army in 1916 when, during the Battle of Verdun, he was shot then taken prisoner by German forces. His release at World War I's conclusion didn't end his service to his country or its military, including a leading role in the French resistance to the Nazis during World War II. De Gaulle became president of his newly liberated nation following the Nazis' fall, though he didn't stay around for long -- he resigned his post in January 1946. Still, de Gaulle remained active in public and political life. In 1959, the ardent nationalist once again became president, a position he held for a decade. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Famous captives: Life after freedom Jean-Paul Sartre was already a teacher, writer and philosopher when he was drafted in 1939 to join French forces fighting in World War II. He was captured in 1940, spending about a year as a prisoner. Sartre didn't rest after his release. He was active in the French resistance and as a writer, including the 1943 publications of "L'Etre et le Neant" ("Being and Nothingness") and the play "Les Mouches" ("The Flies"). He continued to gain international fame and recognition after the war ended, including earning the 1964 Nobel Prize in Literature for his autobiography, "Les Mots" ("The Words"). Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Famous captives: Life after freedom Before Kurt Vonnegut wrote books that became must-reads in American classrooms, he was a soldier. But his time in combat came to an abrupt halt in 1944's Battle of the Bulge, when Nazi forces captured him. Vonnegut was a prisoner in Dresden during the Allies' massive, deadly firebombing of that German city, an episode he later recounted in "Slaughterhouse-Five." That book was one of several --- along with "Cat's Cradle" and "God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater" --- that came to define his legacy. In the 1980s, Vonnegut experienced a resurgence, thanks to books such as "Deadeye Dick" and "Bluebeard," and he became an outspoken peace and anti-nuclear activist. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Famous captives: Life after freedom Francis Gary Powers wasn't captured at war -- at least not an official one. The Soviet Union shot down the U-2 spy plane he was piloting on May 1, 1960, after which Powers spent 21 months in a Moscow prison. He ended up back in the United States in 1962, as part of an exchange of spies with the Soviets. Powers testified before Congress and chronicled what happened to him in a book. He also embarked on a new, less covert life, including years working at Lockheed Martin and as a helicopter pilot broadcasting traffic updates in Los Angeles. He died in a helicopter crash in 1977. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Famous captives: Life after freedom In early 1973, nearly 600 prisoners of war who'd been captured in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia returned home to the United States. Many of them later made their mark on the world, but none is more widely recognizable than John McCain. The Viet Cong shot down his Navy fighter jet in 1967, then shuttled him around prison camps and tortured him. McCain remained in the Navy after his release until 1981. The next year, he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives from Arizona; four years later, he became a U.S. senator, a job he still has today. He won the Republican nomination for president in 2008. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Famous captives: Life after freedom Jessica Lynch was a 19-year-old private first class when her supply convoy took a wrong turn in Iraq and was ambushed on March 23, 2003. U.S. special forces rescued her from an Iraqi hospital in Nasiriyah eight days later -- all part of an ordeal that turned her, unexpectedly, into an overnight heroine and one of the most recognizable faces of the Iraq War. She is seen here leaving a U.S. Air Force base in Germany on her way back to the United States. Lynch is raising a daughter, is a substitute teacher, gives motivational talks and stars in Christian-theme movies. She lives in Elizabeth, West Virginia. Hide Caption 11 of 11JUST WATCHED Bergdahl still keeps his parents waiting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bergdahl still keeps his parents waiting 02:35JUST WATCHED Bergdahl faces long road to recovery Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bergdahl faces long road to recovery 05:21"The idea is to take the returnee from former captive all the way through a safe landing, where we have a soldier who can step forward as a soldier and do the next thing the Army calls on him to do," Bush says.Bergdahl may be the seventh former captive reintegrated since U.S. Army South was tasked to be the center for assisting them, but he is the first junior enlisted person to go through the program. Previous returnees were either Department of Defense employees or contractors. The program began at Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio, Texas, in 2006."Daily life gradually expands to cover all things you and I take for granted", Bush says, "personal encounters, personal hygiene, recreation/leisure and structure including direction, guidance and instruction (having a leader telling you when and where to do something). The goal is to provide the returnee the opportunity to make more and more decisions on his own and exercise more personal freedom."When I ask if Maj. Gen. Kenneth Dahl, the man leading the military's investigation into how Bergdahl left his post in Afghanistan, had been in touch with the sergeant, I was referred to the Pentagon. Bush would say only that "investigation is not part of reintegration.""Does Sgt. Bergdahl have access to an attorney?" I ask."Legal counsel is available throughout the entire reintegration process," is the reply.Previous captives have completed their reintegration in a week to 10 days, but each case is as unique as the conditions of captivity, military experts say, and there have been early suggestions that Bergdahl's stay may be much longer. Officially, the Army will say only that the length of treatment is "event-driven, not timeline-driven."And just where will Bergdahl go after he completes reintegration? Since he is still an active member of the Army, Bush said, "He will go where the Army will tell him to go."Past returnees have gone back to family and back to their places of employment, such as contractors. "Anyone in a military unit would return to their branch of service." Bush says. "In this case, the Army."Once Bergdahl is cleared to leave San Antonio, the orders for his next destination are likely to come from Human Resources Command at Fort Knox, Kentucky. But Bush says he doesn't know if any such decision has been made yet.What is pretty much decided is that unlike his life now, life after reintegration for the 28-year-old probably will be anything but routine.