Story highlights The winning goal was scored in the second overtime periodGoing into the game, the Kings led the series 3-1It's the second Stanley Cup for the Kings in 3 seasonsMayors of L.A., New York wager on outcomeThe Los Angeles Kings scored in double overtime Friday night, defeating the New York Rangers 3-2 and winning their second Stanley Cup in three years.Alec Martinez slapped in the winning goal and the National Hockey League's championship trophy went to the Kings after a thrilling Game 5 at the Staples Center in downtown Los Angeles.The Kings had to work hard to claim the prize.Los Angeles took an early lead with a goal by Justin Williams, but the Rangers battled back and tied it with a power-play goal by Chris Kreider late in the second period. Brian Boyle scored again for the Rangers minutes later, making the score 2-1 New York.Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Rafael Nadal celebrates with the Musketeers' Trophy after defeating Novak Djokovic in the French Open final Sunday, June 8, in Paris. Nadal, the top-ranked tennis player in the world, has now won 14 major tournaments and nine of the last 10 French Opens. Hide Caption 1 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Brazilian soccer star Neymar executes a throw-in during an international friendly match against Panama on Tuesday, June 3, in Goiania, Brazil. Neymar is one of the leading goal scorers for the Brazilian national team, which many consider the favorite going into the World Cup. See 32 players to watch during the World Cup Hide Caption 2 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Richard Douglas of the Adelaide Crows tries to tackle Stephen Hill of the Fremantle Dockers during an Australian Football League match Sunday, June 8, in Perth, Australia. Hide Caption 3 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Horses sprint away from the starting gate in the Belmont Stakes, which took place Saturday, June 7, in Elmont, New York. Tonalist won the race, preventing California Chrome from winning the Triple Crown. Hide Caption 4 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Victor Espinoza, wearing purple, rides California Chrome down the backstretch during the Belmont. California Chrome won the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness earlier this year but ultimately failed in his quest to become the first Triple Crown winner since 1978. Hide Caption 5 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Joel Rosario rides Tonalist, left, to victory in the Belmont, edging out Javier Castellano and Commissioner, right. Hide Caption 6 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Students play fire football at an Islamic boarding school called Daarun Najaah on Saturday, June 7, in Semarang, Indonesia. Students play fire football at many Islamic boarding schools in Indonesia. It's like soccer -- only instead of a ball, they use a flaming coconut. Hide Caption 7 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – LeBron James passes the ball to a Miami Heat teammate during Game 1 of the NBA Finals on Thursday, June 5. James struggled with cramps after the air conditioning broke inside San Antonio's AT&T Center. The Heat ended up losing the game 110-95. Hide Caption 8 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Tim Duncan of the San Antonio Spurs attends a media session Friday, June 6, a day after Game 1 of the NBA Finals. Duncan is seeking his fifth NBA title with the Spurs. Hide Caption 9 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – U.S. President Barack Obama reaches out to Stefanie Dolson after she slipped off the riser during a White House ceremony celebrating the University of Connecticut's basketball teams on Monday, June 9. Both the men's and women's teams at UConn won their respective NCAA championships. Hide Caption 10 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Jorge De La Rosa of the Colorado Rockies delivers a pitch against the Arizona Diamondbacks during a Major League Baseball game Tuesday, June 3, in Denver. Arizona won the game 4-2. Hide Caption 11 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Zambia's Christopher Katongo, far left, flips in the air after scoring a goal against Japan in an international friendly match Friday, June 6, in Tampa, Florida. Japan won 4-3 in what was its final warm-up match for the World Cup. Hide Caption 12 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Matija Marinic of Croatia competes during a Canoe Slalom World Cup event Friday, June 6, at the Lee Valley White Water Centre in London. This was the first event of the World Cup season, which ends in mid-August. Hide Caption 13 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Alex Lowes speeds past a Malaysia flag Friday, June 6, during practice for the Superbike World Championship race in Sepang, Malaysia. Hide Caption 14 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – New York Rangers defenseman Anton Stralman watches a hockey puck fly into a corner of the rink Wednesday, June 4, in Game 1 of the NHL's Stanley Cup Final. The Rangers lost 3-2 in overtime to the Los Angeles Kings. Hide Caption 15 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Horses compete in front of a large crowd Saturday, June 7, at the Epsom Downs Racecourse near Epsom, England. Hide Caption 16 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Gerina Piller tees off during the second round of the Manulife Financial LPGA Classic, which took place Friday, June 6, in Waterloo, Ontario. Piller finished tied for 35th in the tournament, which was won by Inbee Park. Hide Caption 17 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Miguel Cotto lands a left punch to the head of Sergio Martinez during the third round of their WBC middleweight title fight Saturday, June 7, in New York. Cotto stopped Martinez in the ninth round to become the first Puerto Rican boxer to win world championships in four different weight classes. Hide Caption 18 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Show jumper Emanuele Gaudiano struggles with his horse, Cocoshynsky, during a Longines Global Champions Tour event in Shanghai, China, on Thursday, June 5. Hide Caption 19 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – During a rain delay at the French Open, a tennis ball rebounds off the tarp covering the Philippe Chatrier court Wednesday, June 4, at the Roland Garros tennis complex in Paris. Hide Caption 20 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Maria Sharapova kisses the Suzanne Lenglen Trophy after winning the French Open on Saturday, June 7. Sharapova defeated Simona Halep to claim her fifth major tournament and the second French Open title of her career. Hide Caption 21 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Thai youth go for the ball during a soccer match between people and elephants Monday, June 9, at the Ayutthaya Elephant Camp in Thailand's Ayutthaya province. The match was organized by the camp to celebrate the upcoming World Cup in Brazil. Hide Caption 22 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Formula One driver Daniel Ricciardo is soaked with celebratory champagne Sunday, June 8, after he won the Canadian Grand Prix in Montreal, Quebec. It's the first race of the season that hasn't been won by Mercedes drivers Lewis Hamilton (four wins) and Nico Rosberg (two wins). Hide Caption 23 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Mexico's Javier Hernandez is fouled by Portugal's Neto during an international friendly match Friday, June 6, in Foxborough, Massachusetts. Portugal won 1-0 on a goal by Bruno Alves. Both teams will be playing in the World Cup. Hide Caption 24 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Wakana Inoue competes on the vault during the first day of the Artistic Gymnastics NHK Trophy event Saturday, June 7, in Tokyo. Hide Caption 25 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Runners participate in the Jakarta International 10K in Jakarta, Indonesia, on Sunday, June 8. Hide Caption 26 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Surfer Filipe Toledo ducks under a wave Wednesday, June 4, at the Fiji Pro competition in Tavarua, Fiji. Gabriel Medina won the event, beating Nat Young in the final. Hide Caption 27 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – To show support for the South Korea soccer team as it prepares for the World Cup, a diver plays in a tank full of sardines Monday, June 9, at the COEX Aquarium in Seoul, South Korea. Hide Caption 28 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Ryan Hoffman of the Melbourne Storm runs with the ball during a National Rugby League match against the Sydney Roosters on Sunday, June 8, in Melbourne. The Roosters won 32-12. Hide Caption 29 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Shane O'Neill competes in the X Games skateboard street competition Sunday, June 8, in Austin, Texas. Nyjah Huston won gold in the event. Hide Caption 30 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – From left, netball players Sonia Mkoloma, Ellen Haplenny and Sharni Layton compete in the minor semifinal of the ANZ Championship on Sunday, June 8, in Sydney. Haplenny's team, the Waikato BOP Magic, edged out the NSW Swifts 50-49. Hide Caption 31 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – A dog named Mondriaan vom Badenermoor stumbles during a race in Gelsenkirchen, Germany, on Sunday, June 8. Hide Caption 32 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Justin Williams of the Los Angeles Kings hands his stick to a young fan after he scored the game-winning goal in Game 1 of the NHL's Stanley Cup Final. The Kings are looking to win their second Stanley Cup in three years. Hide Caption 33 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Children play soccer on a playground in Bhubaneswar, India, on Sunday, June 8. Hide Caption 34 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Oakland's Nick Punto stretches to tag Baltimore's Chris Davis during a slide into second base Friday, June 6, in Baltimore. Oakland won the game 4-3. Hide Caption 35 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Formula One driver Lewis Hamilton races in the Canadian Grand Prix on Sunday, June 8. He didn't finish the event, but with four wins on the season he sits second in the overall standings. Hide Caption 36 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Greece goalkeeper Panagiotis Glykos gets tangled up with Nigeria forward Peter Odemwingie during an international friendly match Tuesday, June 3, in Chester, Pennsylvania. The game, a World Cup warm-up for both teams, finished 0-0. Hide Caption 37 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Matterhorn waits to train on the main track at Belmont Park on Wednesday, June 4. The horse would go on to finish eighth in the Belmont Stakes. Hide Caption 38 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Novak Djokovic reacts during his French Open semifinal match against Ernests Gulbis on Friday, June 6. Djokovic won in four sets but lost to Rafael Nadal in the final. Hide Caption 39 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Luke Nevill of Australia, left, drives to the basket against Xu Zhonghao of China during a game between the two countries' national teams Friday, June 6, in Zhenjiang, China. The two teams just completed a four-game series, with each team winning twice. Hide Caption 40 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Robert Kubica's Ford Fiesta RS catches some air Friday, June 6, on day two of the Rally Italia Sardegna, the Italian event of the World Rally Championship. Kubica finished eighth in the race, which was won by Volkswagen's Sebastien Ogier. Hide Caption 41 of 42 Photos: What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos What a shot! 42 amazing sports photos – Australia's Tevita Kuridrani tackles France's Hugo Bonneval during the first match of a three-match rugby series Saturday, June 7, in Brisbane, Australia. Australia won the opener 50-23. See 39 amazing sports photos from last week Hide Caption 42 of 42The Kings tied it 2-2 in the third period with a power-play goal by Marian Gaborik. The crowd chanted "We want the cup" as the game headed down the stretch of regulation time.The scrappy Rangers took only one game in the series, a 2-1 victory Wednesday in New York.Los Angeles netted its first Stanley Cup in 2012 by defeating the New Jersey Devils. That title ended decades of futility for a franchise struggling for success in a sport typically associated with frigid temperatures and icy lakes.Their run over the past couple years has given the Kings attention and traction with a metropolitan fan base dominated by the NBA's Lakers and Clippers, baseball's Dodgers and Angels, and football and basketball at UCLA and the University of Southern California.NYC mayor to appear on Kimmel to honor betA Monday victory parade is planned in downtown Los Angeles, according to Mayor Eric Garcetti. "We all feel tremendous pride today," Garcetti said after the win. "Our Kings of the ice were once considered underdogs. But with two Stanley Cup wins in three years, they have proved they are Kings of the game."The first-term mayor will also get to revel in watching a fellow rookie -- New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio -- hold up his end of a bet the two city chiefs made on the series.De Blasio announced before the series that if the Rangers lost, he would perform Randy Newman's "I love LA" on "Jimmy Kimmel Live!"Had the Kings lost, Garcetti would have had to have performed Frank Sinatra's "New York, New York" on the ABC late-night program, according to a de Blasio press release.The New York mayor is also on the hook for supplying Kimmel's studio audience in Los Angeles with hot dogs from Gray's Papaya, a Big Apple landmark.