Photos: Photos: Shooting at Oregon high school Shooting at Oregon high school – Friends, family and others hold candles for the victim of a school shooting at a vigil Tuesday, June 10 in Troutdale, Oregon, near Portland. A student shot and killed another student at Reynolds High School before apparently taking his own life, law enforcement sources said. Hide Caption 1 of 10Photos: Photos: Shooting at Oregon high school Shooting at Oregon high school – Troutdale Mayor Doug Daoust addresses reporters at a June 10 press conference in a Safeway parking lot near the school. Hide Caption 2 of 10Photos: Photos: Shooting at Oregon high school Shooting at Oregon high school – Students look for family members after arriving at a shopping center parking lot June 10 in Wood Village, Oregon, after the shooting in nearby Troutdale. Hide Caption 3 of 10Photos: Photos: Shooting at Oregon high school Shooting at Oregon high school – Parents anxiously wait for their children at the shopping center parking lot in Wood Village on June 10. Hide Caption 4 of 10Photos: Photos: Shooting at Oregon high school Shooting at Oregon high school – Buses arrive at a grocery store parking lot in Wood Village on June 10 to reunite students with their parents after the shooting. Hide Caption 5 of 10Photos: Photos: Shooting at Oregon high school Shooting at Oregon high school – A distraught woman waits for news after the school shooting June 10. Hide Caption 6 of 10Photos: Photos: Shooting at Oregon high school Shooting at Oregon high school – The shooting happened at about 8 a.m., said Sue Strickland of the Troutdale Police Department. A semiautomatic weapon was involved in the shooting, she said. Hide Caption 7 of 10Photos: Photos: Shooting at Oregon high school Shooting at Oregon high school – Family and friends of Reynolds High School students waited outside for word of students' safety. Details about what led to the shooting weren't immediately available. Hide Caption 8 of 10Photos: Photos: Shooting at Oregon high school Shooting at Oregon high school – About an hour after the shooting, Oregon State Police said the area was secure and the situation was contained. Hide Caption 9 of 10