Story highlights "People are getting behind U.S. soccer," fan saysThroughout the U.S., World Cup fever takes holdThursday, June 26, 2014, becomes a national holiday of sortsMoments after Germany defeated the United States 1-0 Thursday at the World Cup, the globe's biggest sporting spectacle, frenzied U.S. fans danced and cheered in the humid air under New York's Manhattan Bridge overpass in Brooklyn. One more jubilant celebration -- sans a victory.Even in defeat, Team USA earned a spot in the last 16 of the World Cup after limping out from one of the tournament's toughest groups. They lost their final Group G game but still qualified, despite Portugal defeating Ghana 2-1."This is bigger than a moment," said a frantic fan in Brooklyn who was among the thousands who gathered at various locations around the nation to watch the big match. "It's a movement. People are getting behind U.S. soccer."Sales manager Dave Bogart said his heart was beating "a mile a minute" after Team USA's improbable advance from the feared "Group of Death."Thomas Muller's second-half strike condemned the U.S. to defeat following a rain-soaked match in Recife, Brazil. But star Cristiano Ronaldo's late strike for Portugal inflicted defeat on Ghana and ensured the Americans qualified in second place on goal difference.The American squad will now travel to Salvador, where its opponent will be Belgium on Tuesday."Every four years you get to see the game grow," Bogart told CNN under the Manhattan Bridge.World Cup fever, American-style, lives -- at least until Tuesday. From now on, any loss for a team means the end of its World Cup hopes.Throughout the country -- from outdoor viewing events in the nation's capital, New York and Chicago, to office lunch parties and crowded sports bars -- Thursday, June 26, 2014, was a national holiday of sorts.Meetings were canceled. Students played hooky. Doctors' letters were forged. Some bosses simply gave up, ordered pizzas and put on the game.That fever was in full view at breakfast time when an unnamed World Cup fan from suburban New York gulped down a cold beer at Jack Demsey's Pub in Midtown Manhattan. At an hour when New Yorkers are packing onto subway trains for their morning commute, the pub was already standing-room only."I actually got out of work with a concussion," said the superfan, who declined to give his name for obvious reasons.For many early risers, the breakfast of champions included pints of stout, ale and cider, fireball shot specials and spicy chicken wings.For 90-some minutes starting at noon Thursday, most of America seemed to stop.A year of method acting helped the superfan with his concussion charade, as did a "real doctor's note from a real doctor," he said.Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – Christian Raja reacts while he and other people in New York watch the World Cup match between the United States and Belgium on Tuesday, July 1. Belgium won 2-1 to knock the United States out of the soccer tournament in Brazil. Hide Caption 1 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – Fans gather at Chicago's Soldier Field to watch the U.S.-Belgium match. Hide Caption 2 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – U.S. President Barack Obama chants "I believe that we will win" as he arrives at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building in Washington to watch the Belgium match. Hide Caption 3 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – Fans in San Francisco react as they watch the Belgium match. Hide Caption 4 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – U.S. fans in Atlanta watch the Belgium match. Hide Caption 5 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – U.S. fans cheer at a public viewing party in Detroit. Hide Caption 6 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – A U.S. fan soaks up the atmosphere in Salvador, Brazil, prior to the Belgium match. Hide Caption 7 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – A U.S. fan is seen in Salvador on July 1. Hide Caption 8 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – A U.S. fan in Salvador holds her flag ahead of the match on July 1. Hide Caption 9 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – Fans celebrate from Dupont Circle in Washington on Thursday, June 26, after learning that the United States team, despite losing to Germany, advanced to the Round of 16 in the World Cup. Hide Caption 10 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – Fans in Chicago's Grant Park celebrate June 26 after learning that the U.S. team would advance to the next round of the World Cup. Hide Caption 11 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – U.S. fans react while watching the United States-Germany match in San Francisco on June 26. Hide Caption 12 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – A fan looks on in the rain during the World Cup match between the United States and Germany in Recife, Brazil. Hide Caption 13 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – U.S. President Barack Obama and senior adviser Valerie Jarrett watch the Germany match while en route to Minneapolis. Hide Caption 14 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – U.S. fans cheer during the Germany match. Hide Caption 15 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – U.S. fans are seen at Pernambuco Arena in Recife. Hide Caption 16 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – A member of the U.S. Army watches the Germany game at Dagestein Castle, which is near the Army Training Area Grafenwoehr in Vilseck, Germany. Hide Caption 17 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – Kelsey Neylon watches the United States play Germany on a giant screen at Chicago's Grant Park. Hide Caption 18 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – U.S. supporters watch the Germany game at a FIFA Fan Fest in Rio de Janeiro. Hide Caption 19 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – Fans watch the Germany match from Dupont Circle in Washington. Hide Caption 20 of 21 Photos: USA: All eyes on Brazil USA: All eyes on Brazil – A fan looks on in the rain at Arena Pernambuco. Hide Caption 21 of 21JUST WATCHED How did the U.S. advance after losing? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How did the U.S. advance after losing? 02:09Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Algerian squad members celebrate after tying Russia 1-1 during a World Cup match at the Baixada Arena in Curitiba, Brazil, on June 26. Hide Caption 1 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – South Korea midfielder Son Heung-Min, center, reacts after losing to Belgium during a World Cup match at the Corinthians Arena in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Belgium won 1-0. Hide Caption 2 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Belgium defender and captain Jan Vertonghen celebrates after scoring. Hide Caption 3 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Belgium defender Jan Vertonghen, right, scores Hide Caption 4 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Algeria fans celebrate their team's first goal. Hide Caption 5 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Islam Slimani of Algeria, left, celebrates scoring his team's first goal with Essaid Belkalem. Hide Caption 6 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Algeria forward Islam Slimani, right, scores his team's first goal past Russia's goalkeeper Igor Akinfeev. Hide Caption 7 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Algeria's goalkeeper Rais M'bohli dives for the ball. Hide Caption 8 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – South Korea midfielder Ki Sung-Yueng, second right, heads the ball. Hide Caption 9 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Aleksandr Kerzhakov of Russia and Carl Medjani of Algeria compete for the ball. Hide Caption 10 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Igor Akinfeev of Russia makes a save against Algeria. Hide Caption 11 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Sofiane Feghouli of Algeria receives a treatment. Hide Caption 12 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – South Korea defender Kim Young-Gwon and Anthony Vanden Borre of Belgium collide during the match between South Korea and Belgium on June 26 in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Hide Caption 13 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Islam Slimani of Algeria and Denis Glushakov of Russia compete for the ball. Hide Caption 14 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Young-Gwon, left, vies with Belgium midfielder Marouane Fellaini. Hide Caption 15 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Kokorin celebrates scoring his team's first goal with teammate Oleg Shatov on his back in a match against Algeria. Hide Caption 16 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Nicolas Lombaerts of Belgium challenges Kim Shin-Wook of South Korea. Hide Caption 17 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – A Belgian fan reacts before a match between South Korea and Belgium. Hide Caption 18 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – South Korea fans cheer. Hide Caption 19 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Algeria fans cheer before the match between Algeria and Russia. Hide Caption 20 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Russian supporters kiss ahead of the match between Algeria and Russia. Hide Caption 21 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Head coach Jurgen Klinsmann of the United States acknowledges the fans after his team's 1-0 loss to Germany in Recife, Brazil. Despite the loss, the U.S. team advances to the round of 16 in the 2014 World Cup. Hide Caption 22 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Portugal forward and captain Cristiano Ronaldo reacts after the match between Portugal and Ghana in Brasilia on June 26. Portugal won 2-1. Hide Caption 23 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – U.S. fans Jon Gonzalez, center and Angie Plummer, front, have mixed reactions throughout the U.S. vs. Germany match at Zeppelin Hall Restaurant and Biergarten in Jersey City, New Jersey. Hide Caption 24 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Portugal's Christiano Ronaldo, left, strikes the ball to score a goal against Ghana. Hide Caption 25 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Jermaine Jones, front, of the United States and teammate Alejandro Bedoya lie on the field after colliding during a match against Germany. Hide Caption 26 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Ghana forward and captain Asamoah Gyan, left, scores past Portugal's goalkeeper Beto during the match between Portugal and Ghana. Hide Caption 27 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Portugal defender Pepe reacts during a match against Ghana. Hide Caption 28 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Thomas Mueller leaps in celebration after scoring what would be the only goal in Germany's victory over the United States. Hide Caption 29 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Two young fans of Germany watch the match against the United States. Hide Caption 30 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Gyan, left, Portugal midfielder William Carvalho, Ghana defender John Boye and Pepe vie for the ball during the match between Portugal and Ghana. Hide Caption 31 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Eder, left, Ronaldo and William Carvalho of Portugal walk in the tunnel during halftime of the match between Portugal and Ghana. Hide Caption 32 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Germany midfielder Mesut Ozil vies for the ball during the match between U.S. and Germany. Hide Caption 33 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Jermaine Jones of the United States reacts early in the match against Germany. Hide Caption 34 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Jonathan Mensah of Ghana and Eder of Portugal go up for the ball. Hide Caption 35 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Germany head coach Joachim Loew gestures during the game against the United States. Hide Caption 36 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Ghana defender John Boye, center, reacts after making an own goal against Portugal. Hide Caption 37 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – John Boye of Ghana gives up an own-goal against Portugal. Hide Caption 38 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Jermaine Jones of the United States controls the ball against Mats Hummels of Germany. Hide Caption 39 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Lukas Podolski of Germany is challenged by Kyle Beckerman of the United States. Hide Caption 40 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Portugal forward Cristiano Ronaldo and Ghana defender Jonathan Mensah vie for the ball. Hide Caption 41 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Portugal's Cristiano Ronaldo reacts after a play. Hide Caption 42 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Jermaine Jones of the United States and Benedikt Hoewedes of Germany jump for the ball during their game in Recife. Hide Caption 43 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Lukas Podolski and Benedikt Hoewedes of Germany chase after Fabian Johnson of the United States. Hide Caption 44 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Ghana goalkeeper Fatau Dauda dives for the ball. Hide Caption 45 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Portugal's Eder, left, and Ghana's John Boye vie for the ball. Hide Caption 46 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Portugal's Joao Moutinho and Ghana's Emmanuel Agyemang Badu fight for the ball. Hide Caption 47 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Eder of Portugal and Jonathan Mensah of Ghana jump for the ball. Hide Caption 48 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Andre Ayew of Ghana tackles Cristiano Ronaldo of Portugal. Hide Caption 49 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Germany head coach Joachim Loew checks the pitch condition before the game against the United States. Hide Caption 50 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – U.S. fans cheer before the game at Dupont Circle in Washington. Hide Caption 51 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Portugal fans cheer before their team's game against Ghana. Hide Caption 52 of 53 Photos: World Cup: The best photos from June 26 World Cup: The best photos from June 26 – Ghana fans gather before the game against Portugal. See the best World Cup photos from June 25. Hide Caption 53 of 53JUST WATCHED Fans ditch work to watch World Cup game Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Fans ditch work to watch World Cup game 01:05"I had to be off for two weeks, and I couldn't think or do anything," he told CNN. "I put that (method acting) to use as a diehard soccer fan."U.S. coach Jurgen Klinsmann, the man who transformed Germany into a powerhouse team, on social media gave America's workforce permission to take a day off. His note said, in part, that the absence is for a "good cause" and that Team USA needs the "full support of the nation" in order to advance to the next round.New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo tweeted back: "NYS stands strongly behind you. I'm approving an extra hour for lunch today."On Sunday, 20,000 people showed up for the World Cup watch party at Chicago's Grant Park for the USA-Portugal match, CNN affiliate WBBM reported . But Thursday's crowd, which was expected to be bigger than Sunday's, turned out to be about 5,000.In California, at the headquarters of Edmunds.com, workers pecked away on their laptops while watching the game.The average age of workers at the Santa Monica headquarters of the car-buying website is 35. Edmunds CEO said he recognized a growing interest in soccer."We wanted to be open about it and allow them to watch the game, just so long as they (employees) get results," CEO Avi Steinlauf said. "We'd rather have it this way, watching in a conference room, than trying to check the score on their phones or computers."The final score didn't seem to matter much Thursday. The team advanced.As the superfan at Jack Demsey's Pub put it, his real affliction was not a concussion."The only thing I had was soccer fever, and the only prescription is more soccer," he said. "When we win, it is the greatest feeling in the world. It's one of the rare sports that really shows the patriotism that is America."For many on Thursday, even defeat felt great.