Story highlights 141 million people are under advisories or warnings, NOAA spokesman tweetsNational Weather Service says 13 deaths are "potentially" due to heat in MidwestA cold front moving in will bring relief, the weather service saysWatches, warnings, and advisories cover more than 30 statesThe dangerous heat wave blamed for as many as 13 deaths spread into the eastern United States on Wednesday, extending its reach across nearly half the U.S. population, officials said.About 141 million people in a 1 million-square-mile area were under heat advisories and warnings, Justin Kenney, spokesman for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, tweeted.The National Weather Service said "temperatures in the mid-90s will be possible across the mid-Atlantic states today. High temperatures will near 100 degrees tomorrow across much of the mid-Atlantic and parts of the Southeast. These triple-digit temperatures are forecast to remain in place across the eastern U.S. through Saturday before cooling off slightly to the mid-90s by Sunday."While it is unclear how many deaths will ultimately be blamed on the heat, the National Weather Service said 13 fatalities were "potentially related to the heat wave in the Midwest."JUST WATCHED Relief from the heat may be coming Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Relief from the heat may be coming 01:43For parts of the country that have already been scorched, some relief was forecast to arrive later Wednesday, the weather service said. A cold front moving across Montana Wednesday morning "will significantly drop temperatures across the north central U.S. for the rest of the week, though locations across the central and southern Plains and parts of the Midwest will not see much change from the extended period of heat."But in the East, some of the worst temperatures were just setting in.Excessive heat watches, warnings and heat advisories were in effect in more than 30 states Wednesday morning, in what the weather service described as "a large portion of the central U.S. and Ohio River Valley, as well as portions of the mid-Atlantic and northeastern states. Temperatures will feel like 100 to 110 degrees or higher during the afternoon hours."The heat wave in recent days has brought heat index values -- which measure how hot it feels -- to as high as 131, the weather service said.Heat indices on Tuesday reached 129 in Newton, Iowa; 121 in Taylorville, Illinois; 122 in Gwinner, North Dakota; and 123 in Hutchinson, Minnesota.Minneapolis, Minnesota, recorded its highest dew point ever, 82 degrees, on Tuesday. The dew point temperature is a measure of atmospheric moisture.Part of what makes the heat wave so dangerous is that it offers no break, even at night. Chicago on Tuesday tied its record for the warmest low temperature of 78 degrees. In Rockford, Illinois, temperatures dropped only down to 76 degrees -- the warmest on record.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said people in areas affected by extreme heat should drink more water than usual -- and not wait until they feel thirsty. "Avoid alcohol or liquids containing high amounts of sugar," the CDC says.The CDC also recommends taking cool showers or baths and avoiding direct sunlight. "Check on those most at-risk twice a day," the CDC says.