Story highlights Diana Nyad completed the 110-mile swim from Cuba to Florida last weekShe says she is the first person to do it unassisted and without a shark cageBut many questions have been raised about aspects of her swimShe insists her team did it in a "squeaky clean" waySaying no one can can diminish what she and her team accomplished, a confident Diana Nyad took on her critics Wednesday night on "Piers Morgan Live." Her record-breaking Cuba to Florida swin, she said, was by the book."We swam fair and square, squeaky clean across that thing," Nyad said, at times raising her voice, during the interview"No one's going to take our joy and our moment that the world was inspired by away from us. Nobody."The 64-year-old marathon swimmer has been hit with criticism ever since she finished her record-breaking 53-hour, 110-mile journey last week.Some say the numbers don't add up. Was it really a record? Did she cheat?Photos: Photo: Diana Nyad's record setting swim Photos: Photo: Diana Nyad's record setting swim Diana Nyad's record-setting swim – Diana Nyad became the first person to swim from Cuba to Florida without a protective cage, reaching a Key West beach on Monday, September 2, nearly 53 hours after jumping into the ocean in Havana for her fifth try in 35 years. The 64-year-old endurance swimmer had a 35-person team to help clear her path of jellyfish and watch for sharks. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Photo: Diana Nyad's record setting swim Diana Nyad's record-setting swim – Nyad speaks during a press conference in Havana, Cuba, on Friday, August 30. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Photo: Diana Nyad's record setting swim Diana Nyad's record-setting swim – Nyad jumps into the water to begin her fifth attempt at crossing the Straits of Florida on Saturday, August 31. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Photo: Diana Nyad's record setting swim Diana Nyad's record-setting swim – Nyad waves after starting her journey without a shark protection device on August 31. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Photo: Diana Nyad's record setting swim Diana Nyad's record-setting swim – Nyad is escorted by kayakers two miles off the coast of Key West, Florida, on Monday, September 2. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Photo: Diana Nyad's record setting swim Diana Nyad's record-setting swim – Nyad talks with her crew on September 2. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Photo: Diana Nyad's record setting swim Diana Nyad's record-setting swim – People cheer as they await Nyad in Key West on September 2. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Photo: Diana Nyad's record setting swim Diana Nyad's record-setting swim – Nyad completes her swim from Cuba as fans cheer. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Photo: Diana Nyad's record setting swim Diana Nyad's record-setting swim – Nyad and her trainer Bonnie Stoll hug as Nyad walks ashore on September 2. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Photo: Diana Nyad's record setting swim Diana Nyad's record-setting swim – Nyad takes a drink after completing her swim from Cuba. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Photo: Diana Nyad's record setting swim Diana Nyad's record-setting swim – The journey was more than 100 miles from Havana to Key West and took Nyad 52 hours and 54 minutes. Hide Caption 11 of 11Nyad answered her critics, point by point.Did she get help?No, Nyad said. She said she was out in the open ocean the whole time."Never, never took a rest, never touched a boat, never got out on a boat," she said.JUST WATCHED Diana Nyad's historic swim questioned Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Diana Nyad's historic swim questioned 02:59During 27 hours of swimming, she went from 1.5 mph than to more than 3 mph. Many marathon swimmers say that's deeply suspicious. Her explanation?JUST WATCHED Cubans celebrate Diana Nyad's swim Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cubans celebrate Diana Nyad's swim 01:30It's simple math, Nyad said. And also a lucky stretch. She said she hit a perfect current that pushed her along at a quicker speed.JUST WATCHED Diana Nyad swims into record books Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Diana Nyad swims into record books 01:30"If you got lucky, which I did that day and I'm swimming at 1.7 miles per hour I have a current at, let's say, 2. 2 miles per hour... You add them together and you're close to 4 miles an hour. It's easy."Critcs say that it's impossible for her not to eat or drink for more than seven hours during the swim. Her response?That's pure fiction, Nyad said. That rumor started, Nyad said, when a doctor said she was having serious stomach problems during the swim. The doctor said she was having problems eating solid food."That doesn't mean you don't eat," she said. "My handlers, they made me nutritional supplement drinks. I'm always taking in food, every half hour, 45 minutes. Seven hours. That never happened."Some question whether she violated the traditions of the sport by using a specialized mask and wetsuit to protect herself from jellyfish stings. Did she break the rule?The specialized mask she wore is allowed in the rules, Nyad said. And by the way, she added, that mask could hardly be called an aid. It's cumbersome and makes it harder to swim."It's not an aid, believe me. You wish you didn't have this thing on," she said. "They're the most dangerous jellyfish in the world. They're fatal. You need to be protected. In many areas of the world, those types of suits are allowed; just not in the English Channel."Does she think her effort will be ratified? Did she swim for nothing?Nyad said she'll have to wait and see if she is officially affirmed as the first person to have completed the Cuba-Florida swim unassisted and without a shark cage. These questions don't help.But she says, in some ways, she understands the scrutiny."People have been trying since 1950 to get across. It did seem nearly impossible," Nyad said. "It better be vetted. But our team is squeaky clean. This swim will the ratified in due time."