Story highlights Temporary span went up within a few weeks of the collapseThe bridge's failure severed the state's main artery to CanadaA new permanent span over Washington state's Skagit River reopened Sunday, some four months after a bridge collapse on Interstate 5.The bridge's failure in late May sent cars tumbling into the river and severed the state's main artery to Canada, on which trucks carry an estimated $13.9 billion annually in cargo.A temporary span went up within a few weeks.Roughly 70,000 vehicles a day travel on Interstate 5 over the bridge, said the state Department of Transportation, which announced the reopening on its Facebook pagePhotos: Photos: Washington bridge collapses Photos: Photos: Washington bridge collapses Washington bridge collapses into river – Two cars plunged into the Skagit River in Washington State when the Interstate 5 bridge over it collapsed. Authorities estimate it will take $15 million to repair that portion of the state's main artery to Canada. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Photos: Washington bridge collapses Washington bridge collapses into river – Crews survey the scene of a Skagit River bridge collapse on Interstate 5 near Mt. Vernon, Washington, on Thursday, May 23. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Photos: Washington bridge collapses Washington bridge collapses into river – Authorities believe an 18-wheeler may have struck part of the bridge, causing the collapse. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Photos: Washington bridge collapses Washington bridge collapses into river – Washington Gov. Jay Inslee addresses the media at the scene of the bridge collapse on May 23. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Photos: Washington bridge collapses Washington bridge collapses into river – People examine the collapsed section of the bridge in this photo shot by iReporter Adrian Adrande. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Photos: Washington bridge collapses Washington bridge collapses into river – Search and rescue boats comb the water for victims after the collapse on May 23. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Photos: Washington bridge collapses Washington bridge collapses into river – A helicopter leaves the scene as night falls after the collapse on May 23. Hide Caption 7 of 7It posted a time-lapse video, showing crews working through the night to put the new span in place.