PLATTSBURGH, New York (CNN) The Clinton Correctional Facility in upstate New York is classified as maximum security, but the escape of two convicted murderers this month has left questions about how accurate that description is.Investigators from the New York state inspector general's office are looking into possible breaches of security protocols that allowed inmates Richard Matt and David Sweat to escape, setting police on a vast and costly manhunt for the past three weeks. Other agencies are conducting investigations at the prison."How did these people get the tools to conduct this really massive engineering task in this breakout?" New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo asked Thursday. "Was there a breakdown in the system? ... Should we change the system?"The list of issues at the prison, which is in the small town of Dannemora, is growing:The sleep issueInvestigators are looking into whether prison guards on the block housing Matt and Sweat would sleep during their evening shifts and if that allowed the two killers to remain virtually unsupervised as they worked to prepare their escape, a law enforcement official told CNN on Thursday.The contraband issueThen there's the hamburger meat.Joyce Mitchell, a supervisor in the prison's tailor shop, smuggled frozen meat containing hacksaw blades and drill bits through the main gate at the prison, according to authorities. Gene Palmer , a veteran prison guard, then took the meat into Matt and Sweat's cell area, bypassing a metal detector, Clinton County District Attorney Andrew Wylie said.Photos: New York prison escape Photos: New York prison escape Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat were discovered missing on Saturday, June 6, at the 5:30 a.m. "standing count" of inmates at the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Gov. Andrew Cuomo, shown during a tour of the prison, said of the escapees: "These are dangerous people. They are nothing to be trifled with." Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape The hole the inmates cut into a cell wall to escape. The men had side-by-side cells and apparently had obtained power tools to cut through the steel wall, authorities said.Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Looking from the catwalk, this is the hole the inmates cut into the wall. The pair followed the catwalk toward a series of tunnels. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Gov. Cuomo studies the maze of pipes the prisoners navigated during their escape. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Cuomo climbs a ladder as he examines the prisoners' escape route. Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Cuomo examines the escape route of the prisoners. "It was elaborate; it was sophisticated," he said. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape The inmates used power tools to drill through steel pipes as they made their escape. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Gov. Cuomo examines a pipe the inmates cut through. Authorities don't know how the prisoners got the power tools. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: New York prison escape Officials look at the manhole through which the inmates crawled to freedom. Hide Caption 10 of 10Palmer was unaware that the meat contained contraband, his former lawyer has said.The prison guard also loaned Sweat tools to work on electrical breakers in the catwalk behind the convicts' cells, an area that was part of the fugitives' escape route, according to an official familiar with the investigation.Palmer had been suspended with pay, but state officials changed his status to suspended without pay Thursday, according to the New York State Department of Corrections and Community Supervision. He and Mitchell are facing charges in connection with the escape.The catwalk issueAccess to the catwalks was not unusual for prisoners, a former maintenance supervisor at Clinton told CNN.The correctional facility used inmates to do plumbing and electrical work that sometimes involved them entering the catwalk area, said the former supervisor, who worked at the prison for 35 years.Inmates would fill in those positions, especially when the maintenance department was understaffed, he said.The staffing issueCorrection officers were also in short supply at times, and they wouldn't always be with the inmate plumbers and electricians as they repaired things, said the former supervisor, who left the facility six years ago.He said inmates worked unplugging toilets, changing lights, fixing leaks and repairing wiring. Their work took them inside cells and to the catwalks behind the cell walls for major pipe repairs.Wylie, the district attorney, told CNN that he believes Palmer was with Matt and Sweat when they worked on the electrical breakers in the catwalk area.Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat were on the run after they escaped from the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York, on Saturday, June 6. Matt was killed by police on Friday, June 26. Sweat was captured two days later and is now in police custody. Hide Caption 1 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Hide Caption 2 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Matt's body lies on the ground after he was killed by police on June 26. Hide Caption 3 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Sweat was captured on June 28, multiple law enforcement sources briefed on the investigation told CNN. He was shot twice in a field by a New York state trooper and taken into custody in upstate New York, close to the Canadian border. Hide Caption 4 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Sweat is bloodied, shirtless and cuffed at the ankles, and he appears to be breathing into an oxygen mask after his capture on June 28. Hide Caption 5 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Police escort ambulances from an area where law enforcement officers were searching for Sweat on June 28. Hide Caption 6 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officials are seen in the side-view mirror of a car as they stand guard June 28 in Duane, New York. Hide Caption 7 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners FBI agents conduct a search for Sweat near Duane on June 28. Hide Caption 8 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An FBI agent searches for Sweat on June 28. Hide Caption 9 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers man a roadblock in Malone, New York, on Saturday, June 27. Hide Caption 10 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers talk to motorists at a roadblock near Malone on June 27. Hide Caption 11 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers stand guard near the site where Matt was shot and killed in Malone on June 26. Hide Caption 12 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A New York State Police officer stands guard near the shooting scene in Malone on June 26. Hide Caption 13 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers and a forest ranger, back, search a barn in Owls Head, New York, on June 26. Hide Caption 14 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Corrections officers stop a vehicle Monday, June 22, in Owls Head, about 20 to 25 miles west of the prison where Matt and Sweat escaped. The discovery of the escapees' DNA in a cabin re-energized the search for the fugitives. Hide Caption 15 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A bus transports corrections officers to a search area in Mountain View, New York, on June 22. Hide Caption 16 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers use all-terrain vehicles in Mountain View on June 22. Hide Caption 17 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Corrections officers search railroad tracks near Friendship, New York, on Sunday, June 21, after a possible sighting of the fugitives. Hide Caption 18 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers gather along Route 20 near Friendship on June 21. Hide Caption 19 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A task force of U.S. Marshals and police officers go door to door near Dannemora, New York, searching for the two escaped murderers on Tuesday, June 16. Hide Caption 20 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Troopers stop civilian cars at a checkpoint outside Dannemora on Monday, June 15. Hide Caption 21 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Prison tailor Joyce Mitchell, charged with aiding the escape, appeared in court on Monday, June 15. Hide Caption 22 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers work a roadblock in Saranac, New York, on Saturday, June 13. Hide Caption 23 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement personnel line the roadside on June 13 as they search an area in Cadyville, New York. Hide Caption 24 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police prepare equipment during the search on Thursday, June 11. Hide Caption 25 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Authorities block a road in Cadyville during the manhunt on June 11. Hide Caption 26 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A Vermont state trooper heads out on Lake Champlain in Burlington, Vermont, on June 11. Hide Caption 27 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers question a woman who lives near the Dannemora prison on Wednesday, June 10. Hide Caption 28 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An employee stands guard at the Clinton Correctional Facility on June 10. Hide Caption 29 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An officer checks the trunk of a car at a checkpoint near the Dannemora border on June 10. Hide Caption 30 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Officers continue their search in Essex, New York, on Tuesday, June 9. Hide Caption 31 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An officer walks through a swampy area near Essex on June 9. Hide Caption 32 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers search a wooded area in Dannemora on Monday, June 8. Hide Caption 33 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners State corrections officers monitor traffic June 8 at the Clinton Correctional Facility. See photos of the route the escaped prisoners took Hide Caption 34 of 34Kathy Garrison, president of the Civil Service Employees Association's Capital Region chapter, which represents support staff at Clinton Correctional Facility, said that's not always the case."Often times it's our members dealing directly with these dangerous inmates, and oftentimes there's not a corrections officer assigned to the area," she said.She said she's been hearing concerns from her members for years about low staffing at the prison."It's very dangerous," she said. "The watchtowers aren't manned 100% of the time. It's craziness."Garrison placed the blame for the dangerous environment, and security lapses leading up to the escape, on tight budgets and pressure from the governor's office to curb overtime.Budgets have fluctuated under Cuomo, going down in his first year in office before rising, falling and then rising again. The proposed correctional system budget for 2015-2016 is $2.9 billion, up from $2.8 billion the year before.The quid pro quo issueMitchell, 51, has pleaded not guilty to promoting prison contraband and criminal facilitation. Palmer, 57, is pleading not guilty to charges of promoting prison contraband, tampering with physical evidence and official misconduct.Both reportedly accepted paintings from Matt.After the breakout, Palmer tried to get rid of evidence by burning some paintings and burying others in nearby woods, according to authorities.He described his arrangement with Matt in a statement he gave state police."Matt provided me with elaborate paintings and information on the illegal acts that inmates were committing within the facility," the document says. "In turn, I provided him with benefits such as paint, paintbrushes, movement of inmates, hamburger meat, altering of electrical boxes in the catwalk areas."Asked whether he assisted in the escape, Palmer told investigators: "No. Not intentionally."The deal-making issueSuch deals between convicts and guards were commonplace inside Clinton, said Erik Jensen, a former inmate who knew Matt, Sweat, Mitchell and Palmer."Say you want more freedom, more out-of-your-cell time to maybe go to somebody else's cell, do a tattoo. ... So what do you do? You give up some information: inmates who have knives, drugs, other forms of contraband," Jensen, who was in Clinton from June 2011 to March 2012, told CNN.The former maintenance supervisor at Clinton described how these kinds of relationships could develop, saying inmates sometimes asked prison employees for favors, such as sending a letter or asking for a pack of cigarettes.Prisoners started with small favors and followed up with bigger requests, sometimes threatening to turn in the employee for delivering on the smaller offense, he said."It's the employees that are the strongest factor in prison security, but they also can be the weakest link," Robert Ayers, a former warden at San Quentin State Prison in California, told CNN.The overall environment issueMatt and Sweat were housed in the prison's "honor block," a special section for inmates who'd gone years without significant disciplinary action.Being in the honor block gave inmates privileges such as going outside every day, having hot plates and refrigerators in their cells, and congregating for hours in a central gallery area each evening with fellow inmates, according to a longtime prison employee.After the escape, the honor block at Clinton was shut down and turned into a regular cell block, a source with detailed knowledge of the facility told CNN last week.Palmer hasn't spoken publicly about the prison break, but he gave an interview 15 years ago about life inside Clinton."It's a negative environment," he told North Country Radio's Brian Mann. "And long-term exposure to a negative environment, you become hard on issues."Palmer said life as a prison guard was as miserable as those of the prisoners. "With the money that they pay you, you'll go bald, you'll have high blood pressure, you'll become an alcoholic, you'll divorce, and then you'll kill yourself," he said.