Los Angeles (CNN) In drought-punished Southern California, with the unceremonious push of a steely sodbuster, another lawn bites the dust.That's one down, and a sprawl to go.Here in the land of perpetual sunshine, up to 5,000 residential lawns now vanish each month, converted into drought-resistant gardens and yards in under cash incentives, says the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California (MWD), a consortium of water utilities serving 17 million people.It's all part of "the nation's largest turf removal and water conservation program" whose budget was more than quadrupled in May, to $450 million, because of a homeowner rush to save water, the district says."What we're really trying to do is get a change in people's hearts and minds," said Jeffrey Kightlinger, the district's general manager. "We really want people to shift how they think about outdoor water usage, their garden and their lifestyle in Southern California."Call it a seismic cultural shift triggered by lucrative rebates reaching up to $6,000 to remove front and backyard sod from a home, depending on the city and size of lawn.Call the new landscape 50 shades of drought-tolerant plants.As Southern California water utilities offer up to $6,000 in rebates to homeowners if they replace lawns with drought-friendly plants, a cottage industry also grows, such as these laborers who specialize in sod removal.Here's the deal:MWD is a wholesaler that delivers water to 26 cities and water districts in Southern California. It is paying residents $2 per square foot of lawn removed.Homeowners in the city of Los Angeles can collect another $1.75 a square foot, courtesy of an aggressive water conservation program by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power.The district estimates $450 million will be paid regionally in rebates by the end of this year. To achieve that budget, MWD in May added $350 million to the program because, it said, "public interest in water-saving rebates, primarily turf removal incentives, continues to set records."The program is projected to save more than 70 million gallons of water over 10 years -- enough water for 160,000 households, MWD says.Kightlinger calls it "a historic one-time investment in conservation."The wholesaler can afford to distribute these whopping rebates because it racked up higher than expected water sales to various districts during the drought.JUST WATCHED Drought decimates California snowpack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Drought decimates California snowpack 02:21Indeed, it never rains in Southern California nowadays.In the San Fernando Valley, Olivia Eissagholian and her husband, Patrick, waved goodbye to blades of grass and hello to cactus and gravel."I think we started looking at our lawn that was something that wasn't environmentally friendly, that wasn't cost friendly anymore," Olivia Eissagholian said."I think it's awesome," Patrick Eissagholian added. "It always looks great, and we won't be wasting water."JUST WATCHED California drought: What happens now? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH California drought: What happens now? 02:08That simple declaration about water is what utility chiefs want to echo throughout the nation's most populous state.Californians need to become water wise.Lawns account for 50% or more of Southern California residents' water usage, so the math tells you that getting rid of the grass equates to lower bills, the district says."In droughts we typically see people let their lawns go brown, let it die and then reseed and let (the lawn) grow again," Kightlinger said. "We're actually putting out this money (rebates) to try to make it a permanent mindset, a permanent lifestyle change."With greenbacks motivating lawn removal, many residents turn to native plants that easily tolerate droughts -- and need less water.Those plants aren't all prickly. In fact, many flower and explode with color.For example, a garden at the MWD headquarters in Los Angeles features a brilliant array of yellow lantana, kangaroo paw and flowering salvias such as Texas Ranger and Mexican sage."These are examples of California-friendly landscapes, and they require virtually no water once they are set up," Kightlinger said.Photos: California's historic drought Photos: California's historic drought Inmates at a state prison in Vacaville, California, install a drought-tolerant garden in October. The garden will be watered using reclaimed water from the prison's kitchen. California is entering its fifth year of severe drought. Hide Caption 1 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought California State Assemblyman Devon Mathis speaks to members of the media after he helped secure a donation of 100,000 water bottles in September. More than 300 homes in Porterville, California, were out of running water because of dried-up wells. Hide Caption 2 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Evacuee James Logan embraces his wife, Lisa, as they listen to an update about a wildfire in Clearlake Oakes, California, in August. Drought conditions have fueled numerous wildfires across the state. Hide Caption 3 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Firefighters hike down a hill in Clearlake, California, as they mop up hot spots from the Rocky Fire in August. Hide Caption 4 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A golfer in San Francisco hits a shot in July. After Gov. Jerry Brown ordered a statewide water-use reduction of 25%, golf courses have been struggling to keep their fairways and greens watered. Hide Caption 5 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought People picnic in July on the sandy bottom of Mirror Lake, which is normally covered with water at Yosemite National Park. Hide Caption 6 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A man applies green paint to a brown lawn in Novato, California, in May. Hide Caption 7 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A close-up of the dry Guadalupe Creek, as seen in San Jose, California, in April. Hide Caption 8 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Workers install artificial grass at a home in Burlingame, California, in April. Hide Caption 9 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Motorists in Rancho Cordova, California, pass a sign in April reminding them to reduce water use. Hide Caption 10 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A woman in Sequoia National Park looks up at barren terrain typically populated by skiers in April. Hide Caption 11 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought California Gov. Jerry Brown, right, walks with Frank Gehrke, chief of the California Cooperative Snow Surveys Program for the Department of Water Resources, near Echo Summit, California, in April. Gehrke said this was the first time since he has been conducting the survey that he found no snow at that location at that time of the year. Hide Caption 12 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought People hike along a ridge overlooking the Griffith Observatory, where vegetation was drying out in Los Angeles in March 2015. Hide Caption 13 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought In March 2015, a power boat sits on a Lake McClure parking lot that used to be underwater in La Grange, California. Hide Caption 14 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Low water is seen at the dam of Lake Success, near East Porterville, California, in February 2015. Hide Caption 15 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought This picture taken from a helicopter shows a drought-affected area near Los Altos Hills, California, in July 2014. Hide Caption 16 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A woman walks her dog in San Francisco in July 2014. Hide Caption 17 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A worker washes the sidewalk in front of a San Francisco hotel in July 2014. Hide Caption 18 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought In June 2014, a pedestrian walks by a sign posted in front of the lawn at the California State Capitol in Sacramento. Hide Caption 19 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Residents photograph the burning ruins of their home, which was destroyed in a wildfire in Carlsbad, California, in May 2014. Hide Caption 20 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Volunteers pack bags of oatmeal at a San Francisco food bank in May 2014. The longstanding drought has contributed to an increase in food prices. Hide Caption 21 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Fingerling Chinook salmon are dumped into a holding pen as they are transferred from a truck into the Sacramento River in March 2014. Low water levels forced wildlife officials to truck more than 400,000 fish nearly 300 miles. They usually make the trip on their own. Hide Caption 22 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A tractor plows a field in Firebaugh, California, in February 2014. Almond farmer Barry Baker had 1,000 acres -- 20% -- of his almond trees removed because he didn't have access to enough water to keep them alive. Hide Caption 23 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Plumbing technician Todd Snider installs an aerator at a home in Novato in February 2014. Californians have been installing water-saving devices in their homes to reduce consumption. Hide Caption 24 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A worker installs an artificial lawn in front of an apartment building in San Jose in January 2014. Hide Caption 25 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought A car sits at the bottom of the Almaden Reservoir in San Jose in January 2014. Hide Caption 26 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought Rocky shores are exposed by the low waters of Morris Reservoir, on the San Gabriel River near Azusa, California, in January 2014. Hide Caption 27 of 28 Photos: California's historic drought During a news conference in San Francisco in January 2014, Gov. Jerry Brown holds a chart showing the statewide average precipitation. The governor declared a drought emergency for the state, saying it faced "perhaps the worst drought that California has ever seen since records (began) about 100 years ago." Hide Caption 28 of 28A cottage industry now rises: Landscapers and fledgling companies specialize in stripping front yards and restoring them with plants.One firm, Turf Terminators, does the job free -- in exchange for collecting the rebate. It will even do the paperwork to ensure the company gets paid.The company estimates it's overhauling up to 1,200 yards a month, with passing motorists and word-of-mouth referrals generating new orders."We've realized, too, that for every homeowner that we service, we get about 3½ additional homeowners signing up in the same neighborhood," said Andrew Farrell, head of business development at Turf Terminators.Such are the changing times in Southern California, when keeping up with the Joneses can mean losing the lawn.