(CNN) U.S. Marshals added the inmates who broke out of a maximum security prison in upstate New York to their 15 most wanted fugitives list and offered a $50,000 reward for information that leads to their capture.The list "is reserved for the worst of the worst," said U.S. Marshals Service Director Stacia Hylton. "There is no question David Sweat and Richard Matt fall into this category," she said.The massive manhunt for the convicted murderers, now in its 13th day, continued in the area of the Clinton Correctional Facility where state police have been checking seasonal camps and have cleared more than 160 abandoned buildings.State police also asked hunters and homeowners with surveillance cameras to check their footage all the way back to June 6, the day of the prison break, for any unusual activity.The search for Matt, 49, and Sweat, 35, has reached all the way to the borders Canada and Mexico, where wanted posters of the escaped killers are being handed out.And as investigators widen their search for the fugitives , more details are emerging about the relationships between prison tailor shop instructor Joyce Mitchell and the escapees.Before he broke out of prison, Matt at one point made a painting for Mitchell who is now accused of helping him and another inmate escape.Using a photograph, Matt painted a picture of Mitchell's children, Clinton County District Attorney Andrew Wylie told CNN.And in April, Wylie said, Mitchell gave the painting to her husband as a wedding anniversary present. In exchange, Mitchell gave Matt a pair of speed bag gloves, similar to boxing gloves.Authorities have also said Matt had a sexual relationship with Joyce Mitchell.Mitchell, 51, is behind bars, accused of helping them break free and sneaking hacksaw blades, chisels, drill bits, a punch and other contraband into the convicts' hands before they broke out.Cell phone records subpoenaedMitchell had been investigated in the past for an inappropriate relationship with Sweat that led corrections officials to move him out of the tailor shop in 2013 and keep them separated, Wylie said.Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat were on the run after they escaped from the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York, on Saturday, June 6. Matt was killed by police on Friday, June 26. Sweat was captured two days later and is now in police custody. Hide Caption 1 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Hide Caption 2 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Matt's body lies on the ground after he was killed by police on June 26. Hide Caption 3 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Sweat was captured on June 28, multiple law enforcement sources briefed on the investigation told CNN. He was shot twice in a field by a New York state trooper and taken into custody in upstate New York, close to the Canadian border. Hide Caption 4 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Sweat is bloodied, shirtless and cuffed at the ankles, and he appears to be breathing into an oxygen mask after his capture on June 28. Hide Caption 5 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Police escort ambulances from an area where law enforcement officers were searching for Sweat on June 28. Hide Caption 6 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officials are seen in the side-view mirror of a car as they stand guard June 28 in Duane, New York. Hide Caption 7 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners FBI agents conduct a search for Sweat near Duane on June 28. Hide Caption 8 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An FBI agent searches for Sweat on June 28. Hide Caption 9 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers man a roadblock in Malone, New York, on Saturday, June 27. Hide Caption 10 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers talk to motorists at a roadblock near Malone on June 27. Hide Caption 11 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers stand guard near the site where Matt was shot and killed in Malone on June 26. Hide Caption 12 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A New York State Police officer stands guard near the shooting scene in Malone on June 26. Hide Caption 13 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers and a forest ranger, back, search a barn in Owls Head, New York, on June 26. Hide Caption 14 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Corrections officers stop a vehicle Monday, June 22, in Owls Head, about 20 to 25 miles west of the prison where Matt and Sweat escaped. The discovery of the escapees' DNA in a cabin re-energized the search for the fugitives. Hide Caption 15 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A bus transports corrections officers to a search area in Mountain View, New York, on June 22. Hide Caption 16 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers use all-terrain vehicles in Mountain View on June 22. Hide Caption 17 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Corrections officers search railroad tracks near Friendship, New York, on Sunday, June 21, after a possible sighting of the fugitives. Hide Caption 18 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers gather along Route 20 near Friendship on June 21. Hide Caption 19 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A task force of U.S. Marshals and police officers go door to door near Dannemora, New York, searching for the two escaped murderers on Tuesday, June 16. Hide Caption 20 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Troopers stop civilian cars at a checkpoint outside Dannemora on Monday, June 15. Hide Caption 21 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Prison tailor Joyce Mitchell, charged with aiding the escape, appeared in court on Monday, June 15. Hide Caption 22 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers work a roadblock in Saranac, New York, on Saturday, June 13. Hide Caption 23 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement personnel line the roadside on June 13 as they search an area in Cadyville, New York. Hide Caption 24 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police prepare equipment during the search on Thursday, June 11. Hide Caption 25 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Authorities block a road in Cadyville during the manhunt on June 11. Hide Caption 26 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A Vermont state trooper heads out on Lake Champlain in Burlington, Vermont, on June 11. Hide Caption 27 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers question a woman who lives near the Dannemora prison on Wednesday, June 10. Hide Caption 28 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An employee stands guard at the Clinton Correctional Facility on June 10. Hide Caption 29 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An officer checks the trunk of a car at a checkpoint near the Dannemora border on June 10. Hide Caption 30 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Officers continue their search in Essex, New York, on Tuesday, June 9. Hide Caption 31 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An officer walks through a swampy area near Essex on June 9. Hide Caption 32 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers search a wooded area in Dannemora on Monday, June 8. Hide Caption 33 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners State corrections officers monitor traffic June 8 at the Clinton Correctional Facility. See photos of the route the escaped prisoners took Hide Caption 34 of 34That's the year when she started having a sexual relationship with Matt, a source close to the investigation told CNN. The sexual relationship took place at the tailor shop in the Clinton Correctional Facility, the only known place the two were together, the source said.No court date has been set for Mitchell, who has pleaded not guilty to the two charges brought against her and has been talking to authorities. If convicted, Mitchell could face up to eight years behind bars.The recordings of her conversations with investigators could total as much as 20 hours, her attorney said.Investigators have also subpoenaed her cell phone records and found that she spoke with Matt's daughter at least once, Wylie said.Prosecutor: Husband didn't knowMitchell's husband, Lyle, also worked in the prison's tailoring block.But the prosecutor said Wednesday that Lyle Mitchell didn't know about the prisoners' escape plan before it happened and wasn't aware of his wife's relationships with the inmates.JUST WATCHED An inside look at prison contraband Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH An inside look at prison contraband 03:02After Matt and Sweat broke out, Wylie said, Joyce Mitchell warned her husband that the men were free and had been plotting to kill him."She advised him after the escape of what happened, including the possible murder plot ," Wylie said.Joyce Mitchell's attorney says that doesn't mean she was participating in the plot."I don't believe she was involved in any attempt to kill her husband," her attorney, Stephen Johnston, told CNN. "Just because she heard something doesn't mean she was going to act on it. ... She did not want to be a part of it and did not."Escape prompts closure of prison's 'honor block'Investigators are looking into whether any other prison employees or inmates played a role in the escape.JUST WATCHED Inside the mind of prison escapees Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Inside the mind of prison escapees 02:25The "honor block" at the prison, a special section that had housed Matt, Sweat and other inmates who'd gone years without significant disciplinary action, has been shut down after their escape and will now be turned into a regular cell block, a source with detailed knowledge of the Clinton Correctional facility told CNN.Being in the honor block gave inmates privileges such as going outside every day, having hot plates and refrigerators in their cells, and congregating for hours in a central gallery area each evening with fellow inmates, said Rich Plumadore, who worked at the facility for 35 years.Wanted posters handed out at bordersJUST WATCHED John Walsh on escapees: 'I think they're hunkered down' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH John Walsh on escapees: 'I think they're hunkered down' 06:26The search area has expanded and shifted as hundreds of law enforcement officials scour the region of small towns and densely wooded countryside for clues."We are going to pursue every lead and we are going to locate these individuals," said Capt. Robert LaFountain of the New York State Police Bureau of Criminal Investigation.He and his colleagues have had plenty of leads to pursue. At the last count, police said they had developed more than 1,400.And they have searched 16 square miles -- more than 10,000 acres, which is the equivalent of almost 8,000 football fields.Time-progression photos of killersSo far, officials say, there's no evidence Matt and Sweat have made it out of the search area in New York. But they can't rule out the possibility.Police issued "progression" photos of Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat, showing how they might look now."We have no signs of the two inmates being anywhere else but here," Wylie said. "We haven't had any burglaries, we haven't had any stolen vehicles that we could tie into both Sweat and Matt."Authorities issued time-progression photos on Wednesday of the two fugitives that show what officials think the men would look like after more than 10 days on the run.One theory is the two killers could be holed up in one of the hundreds of cabins scattered across the Adirondacks, the sprawling wilderness area at the doorstep of the prison.Authorities are using canine teams and aircraft in the efforts to try to track them down.