(CNN) The New York manhunt is over. Greek finances are sinking fast. And gay pride celebrates a big weekend.It's Monday, and here are the 5 things to know for your new day.NEW YORK MANHUNTThe three-week nightmare is over for the folks in upstate New York. Authorities caught David Sweat yesterday , just a couple of miles from the Canadian border. He was shot twice and is in critical condition at an Albany hospital. His partner in crime, Richard Matt, was shot and killed on Friday. More than 1,300 law enforcement officers took part in the search for the convicted killers who escaped from the Clinton Correctional facility.GREECETanking: Greek finances are a mess. Greek banks won't be open today as officials scramble to Greek finances are a mess. Greek banks won't be open today as officials scramble to prevent the country's financial system from crashing in panic. There are strict limits on how much money people can withdraw from ATMs -- only $67 a day. The nation's financial crisis escalated Friday when the Greek government pulled out of bailout talks. If Greece can't make tomorrow's debt payment, it will be in default. The global stock markets are expected to take a big hit today.JUST WATCHED Could Greece be the first to leave the Eurozone? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Could Greece be the first to leave the Eurozone? 02:19TAIWAN WATER PARK EXPLOSIONTreat and investigate: Taiwanese health officials are dealing with the horrific aftermath of Taiwanese health officials are dealing with the horrific aftermath of an explosion that burned hundreds of party goers at a water park over the weekend. Burn units are struggling to cope with the number of people injured. Skin grafts are at a premium. A fireball engulfed the crowd after colored powder was sprayed over them. It's uncertain what caused the powder to ignite, but investigators are questioning organizers. One woman has died.JUST WATCHED Hundreds injured in explosion at Taiwan water park Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Hundreds injured in explosion at Taiwan water park 01:55PRIDE WEEKENDRainbow celebration: It was a big weekend for the LGBT community. First, the U.S. Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriages. Then came It was a big weekend for the LGBT community. First, the U.S. Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriages. Then came the gay pride events that were already scheduled. The timing couldn't have been better for those involved.JUST WATCHED Historic celebration at NYC gay pride parade Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Historic celebration at NYC gay pride parade 03:43SPACEX ROCKET BLOWS UPMore problems: The International Space Station will have to wait a bit longer for more supplies. An The International Space Station will have to wait a bit longer for more supplies. An unmanned SpaceX rocket exploded yesterday just a few minutes after takeoff. It was carrying a couple of tons of goods for the crew. It wasn't clear what caused the rocket to fail, but SpaceX will conduct an investigation overseen by the Federal Aviation Administration to try and figure out what happened. It's the third resupply mission in recent months to fail.JUST WATCHED SpaceX rocket explodes after launch Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH SpaceX rocket explodes after launch 01:01Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing:Bodacious bassist: Yes co-founder Chris Squire played on every album the band recorded over nearly 50 years, thrilling fans with his thundering and melodic bass lines. The progressive rock pioneer died Saturday in Phoenix after battling leukemia.Bad idea: This is what happens when you park in a handicapped spot in Brazil ... and you're not handicapped.