Charleston, South Carolina (CNN) Expressions of grief, faith and gratitude on Sunday filled the space of a horrific mass killing at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church , as the venerable structure was again a house of worship.Hundreds filled the pews of the historic church in Charleston, South Carolina."The doors of the church are open," declared the Rev. Norvel Goff during prayers. "No evildoer, no demon in hell or on Earth can close the doors of God's church," he proclaimed.They sang hymns, prayed and remembered the nine church members shot to death Wednesday night during Bible study.One of the victims was the church's pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney. His seat behind the podium was shrouded in black cloth and uniformed police officers were present in the side aisles.Overcoming evil with faith in God was a theme throughout the service."It's by faith that we are standing here and sitting here," Goff said. "It has been tough. It has been rough. Some of us have been downright angry. But through it all God has sustained us."Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME People line up to enter the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, before a worship service on Sunday, June 21. It was the first service at the church since a racially motivated shooter killed nine people there on Wednesday, June 17. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME Church member Kevin Polite helps members into the church for the service. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME The Rev. Norvel Goff prays at the empty seat of the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, who was killed in the shooting. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME Parishioners fill the pews for the service. Church elders decided to hold the regularly scheduled Sunday school and worship service as they continue to grieve. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME The Rev. Norvel Goff delivers a sermon during the service. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME Parishioners pray and comfort each other during the service. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME Parishioners join together in song. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley embraces U.S. Sen Tim Scott. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME Parishioners Shakur Francis, left, and Karen Watson-Fleming sing as they attend the service. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME North Charleston Mayor R. Keith Summey, left, and Charleston Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. attend the service. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME People listen to the Sunday service from outside the church. Hide Caption 11 of 11There was weeping throughout the service. People hugged each other as they looked for comfort and meaning in their grief."Lots of folks expected us to do something strange and break out in a riot. Well, they just don't know us," Goff said as the congregation stood and cheered.'We're going to pursue justice'Goff thanked the people of Charleston and South Carolina."We have shown the world how we as a group of people can come together and pray and work out things that need to be worked out."Right now, he said, the focus needs to be on the grieving families of the nine victims. "There is a time and place for everything," he said.But Goff did call for action "Let's not get it twisted. We're going to pursue justice, we're going to be vigilant and we're going to hold our elected officials accountable to do the right thing," he said. "The blood of the Mother Emanuel Nine requires us to work until not only justice is served in this case, but for those who are still living on the margin of life."Goff thanked Gov. Nikki Haley, who was present at the service, and everyone who sent condolences, brought flowers and made donations. He also thanked the FBI and local police."And finally I want to say thank you to law enforcement. I have no problem in doing that. I want to thank them," he said as a huge roar of applause erupted.U.S. Sen. Tim Scott and the mayors of Charleston and North Charleston were also among the worshippers.Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Thousands of people march on the Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge in Charleston, South Carolina, on Sunday, June 21. People crossed the bridge, which spans the Cooper River, from Mount Pleasant to Charleston, joining hands in a unity chain to mourn the Emanuel AME Church shooting. Police arrested Dylann Storm Roof in the slayings of nine people at a prayer meeting at the church. Hide Caption 1 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Protesters stand on the South Carolina State House steps during a rally to take down the Confederate flag, on Saturday, June 20, in Columbia. Hide Caption 2 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Louise Brown walks down King Street during a "Black Lives Matter" march on June 20 in Charleston, South Carolina. Hide Caption 3 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The men of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity lead a prayer outside Emanuel AME Church, Friday, June 19. Hide Caption 4 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Young people grieve outside Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, on June 19. Hide Caption 5 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Parishioners applaud during a memorial service on Thursday, June 18, at Morris Brown AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina. Hide Caption 6 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Olina Ortega, left, and Austin Gibbs light candles at a sidewalk memorial in front of Emanuel AME Church on June 18. Hide Caption 7 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The Rev. Jeannie Smalls becomes emotional during a prayer vigil held at Morris Brown AME Church on June 18. Hide Caption 8 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A woman places flowers outside the church on June 18. Hide Caption 9 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Mourners gather for a community prayer service at Second Presbyterian Church in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 10 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Walter Jackson, the son of Susie Jackson who died in the church shooting, recalls stories about his mother with his niece Cynthia Taylor at Jackson's home in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 11 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The Rev. Al Sharpton wipes away a tear after praying outside the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 12 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting People sit on the steps of Morris Brown AME Church in Charleston while services are held June 18. Hide Caption 13 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A woman wipes her eyes at a makeshift memorial near the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 14 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The Rev. Keith McDaniel, pastor of Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church, is surrounded by others in prayer on June 18 in Spartanburg, South Carolina. Hide Caption 15 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Tyler Francis, right, hugs Shondrey Dear after praying together June 18 at a makeshift memorial near the Emanuel AME Church. Hide Caption 16 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A group of women prays together at a makeshift memorial on the sidewalk in front of the Emanuel AME Church on June 18. Hide Caption 17 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting President Barack Obama, accompanied by Vice President Joe Biden, pauses while speaking in the Brady Press Briefing Room of the White House in Washington, June 18, on the church shooting in Charleston. Hide Caption 18 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Members of the U.S. Congress gather in front of the Capitol Building in Washington on June 18, during a moment of silence for the nine killed in a church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina. Hide Caption 19 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting South Carolina state Sen. Vincent Sheheen gets emotional on June 18 as he sits next to the draped desk of Sen. Clementa Pinckney at the statehouse in Columbia, South Carolina. Pinckney was one of the nine people killed in the church shooting. Hide Caption 20 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Charleston resident Noah Nicolaisen kneels at a makeshift memorial down the street from the church on June 18. Hide Caption 21 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Kim Hamby prays with her daughter Kayla as they lay flowers at a makeshift memorial in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 22 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A man leans against a light pole as he visits a memorial in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 23 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Chaplain James St. John leads senators in prayer June 18 at the statehouse in Columbia. Hide Caption 24 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Sandra Bridges lays a card at a memorial on June 18. Hide Caption 25 of 25Outside the church, crowds gathered in the street and listened to the service through loudspeakers.When 3-year-old Cady Berardo saw the balloons at the makeshift memorial that covered the entire sidewalk, she thought it was someone's birthday.Her father, Alan Berardo, who was holding her in his arms, shook his head."This is a special church service," he told her, "because four days ago a lot of people died here.""So we're here today in church with God and everybody. Because we all have the same God," he told his daughter.It was a coincidence the Berardos were in Charleston this weekend; they live about three hours away in Edgefield, South Carolina, and had planned the trip to Charleston in advance to celebrate Father's Day."We came here because we got a chance to be here. ... We're privileged that we could actually have the opportunity to come and be here in person," Berardo said."Everybody's heartbroken. There's nothing we can do except show up."At 10 a.m., churches around Charleston -- nicknamed the Holy City because it has so many houses of worship -- rang their bells in solidarity with Emanuel AME.The bell at St. Matthew's Lutheran Church rang 81 times -- nine times for each victim.'Hate's not in me'Law enforcement officials have said Dylann Roof of Lexington, South Carolina, admitted to shooting and killing the people he'd sat with for Bible study. He told investigators he did it to start a race war, according to one of the officials.On Friday, Roof appeared at a bond hearing. Families of the victims addressed him and said they forgave him."I'm reminded of some news media persons that wondered why the nine families all spoke of forgiveness and didn't have malice in their heart," Goff said during the Sunday service. "It's that the nine families got it," he said, reminding worshippers that members' unwavering faith in God shows how to "love our neighbors as we love ourselves."Charleston shooting victimsOn Sunday night, a unity chain will be held on the 13,200-foot Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge. Organizers hope to attract enough people to hold hands and stretch from Charleston to the town of Mount Pleasant on the other side of the Cooper River."When something this horrendous happens this close to home, you are compelled to do something," event coordinator Dorsey Fairbairn said on FacebookOn Saturday, hundreds joined the March for Black Lives in Charleston.The group walked in silence to Emanuel AME Church from a nearby park, and stopped outside the church to lay flowers at the makeshift memorial.The march ended with a rally outside the historic Daughters of the Confederacy building.'Take it down'In Columbia, South Carolina's capital, a large crowd filled the front grounds of the state Capitol on Saturday calling for the Confederate flag to be removed."Take it down, take it down," chanted the crowd, filled with people of all races and ages.The problem of what to do with the Confederate battle flag -- a symbol of racism to many and of Southern heritage for others -- has flustered lawmakers for years.As part of a compromise in 2000, lawmakers agreed to remove the Confederate flag from the top of the Capitol dome and place it across the street while also adding a monument to African-Americans. But the legislation mandated that only a supermajority of the legislature could change that set-up going forward."Personally, I have believed for years it needed to be in a museum," Brannon told CNN's Poppy Harlow on Sunday. "I apologize to the people of South Carolina. I've been in the House for five years. I should have introduced this bill five years ago."Asked why he didn't file a bill before, Brannon answered in a very straight-forward way."I didn't do my job."