Aracadia, California (CNN) Jockey Victor Espinoza has been here before. Twice, in fact.And horse trainer Bob Baffert has been here before, too. Thrice, to be exact.But they never have won the Triple Crown, the holy grail of horse racing.On Saturday, Espinoza will make his third try and Baffert his fourth in their quest to win that glory, with their hopes riding on the 3-year-old thoroughbred whose name begs a New World order: American Pharoah."I'm ready, thinking the third time is the charm," Espinoza said, laughing."I've been through it three times," Baffert added. "I've been really lucky for three times, and I got beat by an inch one time."Photos: American Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade Photos: American Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes winner American Pharoah wins the 147th running of the Belmont Stakes in New York on Saturday, June 6, to become the first horse to win the Triple Crown since Affirmed did so in 1978. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: American Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade American Pharoah, ridden by Victor Espinoza, wins the Preakness Stakes in Baltimore on Saturday, May 16. American Pharoah would become the 12th horse in history to win the Triple Crown -- and the first since 1978 -- if he wins the Belmont Stakes on Saturday, June 6. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: American Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade American Pharoah leads the field into the first turn of the Preakness. The Preakness is the second leg of the Triple Crown, following the Kentucky Derby. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: American Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade Espinoza waves to the crowd after winning the Preakness. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: American Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade Espinoza and trainer Bob Baffert celebrate in the Preakness winner's circle. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: American Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade American Pharoah is bathed after a training session in Baltimore on Friday, May 15. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: American Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade People arrive for the Kentucky Derby on Saturday, May 2. American Pharoah was the favorite going into the race. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: American Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade The crowd watches American Pharoah win the Derby and its $1.2 million prize. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: American Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade From left, American Pharoah, Firing Line and Dortmund lead the field as they head for the Derby finish line. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: American Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade In a thrilling finale, American Pharoah edged Firing Line at the post. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: American Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade It marked a second straight Derby win for Espinoza, who was victorious last year with California Chrome. California Chrome also won the Preakness but came up short in the Belmont. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: American Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade American Pharoah's owner, Ahmed Zayat, is sprayed with champagne in the Derby celebrations. Zayat made his money predominantly from selling his Egyptian brewing business to Heineken for an estimated $280 million. Hide Caption 12 of 1237 years and waitingThe multiple opportunities shared by both men is making Saturday's Belmont Stakes -- the last of the crown's races -- a moment rich in historic significance.As it happens, the Belmont Stakes is the most demanding of the three."When you get to the third leg, there's a lot of fresher horses waiting for you," Baffert said."It's a mile and a half, and they never go that far, and so you never know who can do it," Baffert said of the thoroughbreds.Photos: Triple Crown winners Photos: Triple Crown winners Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes winner American Pharoah wins the 147th running of the Belmont Stakes in New York on Saturday, June 6, to become the first horse to win the Triple Crown since Affirmed did so in 1978. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Triple Crown winners Sir Barton was the first horse to earn the Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing, as it would come to be known, by winning the Kentucky Derby, Preakness Stakes and Belmont Stakes in 1919. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Triple Crown winners More than a decade later, Gallant Fox captured the Triple Crown in 1930. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Triple Crown winners Jockey Pat Beasley rides Omaha in 1936. The horse won the Triple Crown in 1935. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Triple Crown winners War Admiral won the Triple Crown in 1937. He won 21 of his 26 career starts. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Triple Crown winners Whirlaway, right, won the Triple Crown in 1941. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Triple Crown winners Count Fleet, who won the Triple Crown in 1943, is adorned with flowers after winning the Preakness that year. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Triple Crown winners Assault won the Triple Crown in 1946. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Triple Crown winners Citation won the Triple Crown in 1948. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Triple Crown winners Secretariat, left, heads to victory at the Kentucky Derby in 1973. Considered by many to be the greatest racehorse of all time, Secretariat still holds the record for the fastest times in all three Triple Crown races. He won the Belmont by an astounding 31 lengths. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Triple Crown winners Jockey Jean Cruguet guides Seattle Slew to the Triple Crown in 1977. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Triple Crown winners Jockey Steve Cauthen rides Affirmed to a Belmont victory in 1978. Hide Caption 12 of 12In fact, the last nine horses to win the Belmont Stakes didn't run in the prior two legs of the Triple Crown -- the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes.What about that bad spelling?Still, American Pharoah -- with its inglorious misspelling of "pharaoh" -- is the 3-to-5 favorite to win the Belmont Stakes in Elmont, New York.Photos: Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade Photos: Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade American Pharoah (left) enters the home stretch for the 2015 Kentucky Derby behind Firing Line before powering to victory to win the $1.2 million prize. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade Under bright blue skies, American Pharoah was favorite in a star-studded field for the 141st running of the prestigious race. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade In a thrilling finale, the two-year-old bay colt edged out Firing Line at the winning post. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade It marked a second straight win at the Derby for jockey Victor Espinoza, victorious on board California Chrome a year ago. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade Last year California Chrome won the Preakness Stakes, but the horse's bid to win the Triple Crown came unstuck in the Belmont Stakes. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade It is not quite the same rags-to-riches glory story for this year's winner, owned by multimillionaire businessman Ahmed Zayat. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade It proved an emotional race for Zayat and his family -- the horse's owner was sprayed with champagne by jockey Espinoza in the ensuing celebrations. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade Zayat made his money predominantly from selling his Egyptian brewing business to Heineken for an estimated $280 million. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade Espinoza will once more be on board for Saturday's Preakness Stakes, part two of his latest attempt to win horse racing's Triple Crown. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade The Preakness Stakes is held at Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore, Maryland. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade No doubt, many hats, in all shapes and sizes will be out in force at Pimlico on May 16. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Pharoah's Triple Crown crusade Saturday's race will be the 140th running of the Preakness, which has a prize purse of $1.5 million. Hide Caption 12 of 12Espinoza is the first jockey in history to go for the Triple Crown a third time and the first ever to attempt it two years in a row.Last year, Espinoza rode California Chrome to fourth place at the Belmont Stakes. In 2002, he rode War Emblem to victories in the first two races of the crown but they finished eighth when the horse stumbled out of the gate in the Belmont Stakes.Espinoza and Baffert made their final preparations with American Pharaoh this past week at Santa Anita Park in Arcadia, where both men were interviewed.A dream teamThey are a formidable team: Espinoza is ranked No. 3 of 1,266 jockeys in North America, with $7.11 million in earnings in 2015; and Baffert is ranked No. 2 of 4,827 trainers in North America, with $7.55 million in earnings this year, according to Equibase.com. That site describes itself as the official database for the North American thoroughbred racing industry.JUST WATCHED What American Pharoah will see at Belmont Park Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What American Pharoah will see at Belmont Park 01:28A native of Veracruz, Mexico, Espinoza is the 11th of 12 children and was partly raised in Mexico City, to where he moved at age 8. Espinoza donates 10% of his winnings to a children's charity -- the children's cancer center at the City of Hope in the Los Angeles area.The jockey and trainer were aware of Saturday's challenge."I've seen really good horses go in there and fail," Baffert said. "It doesn't take a great trainer or a great jockey to win the Triple Crown. It take a great horse. Hopefully, we can make history."Added Espinoza: "It's not easy, that's why it's been 37 years."Sorry, no chemistry, but is horse happy?The special thing that Espinoza does is he keeps learning, he said."We always learn something new, there's always something new, I always learn," the 43-year-old jockey said. "I learn every time that I go to the track. For each race I learn something new and I am here to learn. No matter how many years I ride, I'm here to learn."JUST WATCHED Jockey: California Chrome likes to run Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Jockey: California Chrome likes to run 02:36Surprisingly, it's not chemistry with the horse that concerns the jockey."We don't have chemistry," Espinoza stated."The only thing I'm focusing on is for him to be happy and it's all about happiness," he added. "If he's happy he will run his race. It's like us: if we are happy we do our job. If we are not happy, we are not going to go to our jobs 100%. That's how I feel about American Pharoah."