(CNN) There's still no sign of the New York escapees. Donald Trump is running for president. And the Golden State Warriors are the golden boys of the NBA.It's Wednesday, and here are five things to know for your New Day.NEW YORK PRISON BREAK: Did Joyce Mitchell's husband know about the escape plan from an upstate New York prison? And did he know about the additional plot to kill him? Lyle Mitchell says no, he didn't know anything; Joyce Mitchell says yes he did because she told him. Either way, authorities are taking a closer look at him and other inmates at the Clinton Correctional Facility, as the manhunt for Richard Matt and David Sweat stretches into its 12th dayJUST WATCHED Source: Joyce Mitchell warned her husband of murder plot Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Source: Joyce Mitchell warned her husband of murder plot 02:24CAMPAIGN 2016The Donald's in: The race for the White House just got a lot more interesting (at least on the GOP side) yesterday when Donald Trump announced The race for the White House just got a lot more interesting (at least on the GOP side) yesterday when Donald Trump announced he was running . The bombastic, boastful billionaire pretty much promised to fix everything in the country his way. In-your-face battles with China and ISIS, a wall for Mexico and a job for everybody were just a few of the pledges Trump made during his circus-like announcement. His top qualification for being president? "I'm really rich." Well, that may be enough to get him into the first couple of GOP debates.JUST WATCHED Donald Trump's best lines during his 2016 speech Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Donald Trump's best lines during his 2016 speech 02:11RACHEL DOLEZALBlack or white: A week ago, no one had ever heard of Rachel Dolezal. Now, no one can seem to stop talking about her. Yesterday, Dolezal -- fresh off of stepping down as head of the Spokane NAACP chapter over criticism that she's portrayed herself as black, even though she was born white -- stood by that self-assessment. A week ago, no one had ever heard of Rachel Dolezal. Now, no one can seem to stop talking about her. Yesterday, Dolezal -- fresh off of stepping down as head of the Spokane NAACP chapter over criticism that she's portrayed herself as black, even though she was born white -- stood by that self-assessment. She insisted , "I identify as black."JUST WATCHED Who is Rachel Dolezal? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Rachel Dolezal? 02:44SHARK ATTACK'Didn't see it coming': Hunter Treschl, who lost an arm in a shark attack over the weekend, Hunter Treschl, who lost an arm in a shark attack over the weekend, said yesterday he was going to "fight and live a normal life" despite what had happened to him. The 16-year-old said he was playing Sunday in waist-deep water with his cousin when he was attacked and didn't even see the shark until it bit his left arm. A 13-year-old girl also lost part of her arm during a shark attack that same day.JUST WATCHED Teen survivor describes shark attack Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Teen survivor describes shark attack 00:10NBAHoop heroes: The Golden State Warriors are the new kings of the NBA. The "Dubs," as they're affectionately called by their fans, beat Lebron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers 105-97 last night to The Golden State Warriors are the new kings of the NBA. The "Dubs," as they're affectionately called by their fans, beat Lebron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers 105-97 last night to claim the NBA title . James, despite his courageous performance, wasn't the Finals MVP. That honor went to Andre Iguodala, who scored 25 points. As for the Cavs, and the city of Cleveland, they will have to wait yet another year for James to make good on his promise to bring home a championship.JUST WATCHED Golden State Warriors win NBA Championship Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Golden State Warriors win NBA Championship 01:09Those are your five biggies for the day. Here are a few others that are brewing and have the Internet buzzing.Surprise duet: Ed Sheeran sings a song with a young fan.Happy dancer: A young boy steals the show while dancing next to Pharrell Williams.Ouch!: A saluting solider causes a 6-year-old girl's meet-and-greet with Queen Elizabeth to go horribly awry.Good dog: Millie the dog helps carry shopping bags from the car to the house.Good dog, part 2: Indy the dog gets super excited before dinner, yet shows great discipline.