(CNN) Those escaped convicts may be headed to Vermont. An American dies fighting ISIS in Syria. And maybe one day soon, you can get the Internet from outer space.It's Thursday, and here are five things to know for your New Day.NEW YORK PRISON ESCAPE: Are the New York escapees headed to Vermont ? Authorities believe they could be, hoping to evade the intense manhunt for them that's covered upstate New York. Vermont police vessels and state troopers will conduct patrols on Lake Champlain, which sits on the New York-Vermont border, and New York state troopers will be allowed into Vermont if needed. The search for Richard Matt and David Sweat now involves more than 400 officers.JUST WATCHED Cuomo: Vermont a possible destination for escapees Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cuomo: Vermont a possible destination for escapees 01:55ISISAmerican killed: Keith Broomfield, an American citizen, was Keith Broomfield, an American citizen, was killed in Syria fighting ISIS. Broomfield was fighting alongside the Kurds. Not much more is known at this time about him, including how he died, how long he had been in the region as a fighter and just how he became a fighter.Keith BroomfieldD.C. MANSION KILLINGSMore evidence: We knew the slayings last month of a prominent Washington family and their housekeeper were gruesome, and We knew the slayings last month of a prominent Washington family and their housekeeper were gruesome, and newly unsealed court documents -- a search warrant and accompanying affidavit -- illustrate just how bad it was. A bloody baseball bat was found in the room where three of the bodies were found. Some of the victims suffered trauma to the head and/or lacerations to the throat and head.JUST WATCHED Police: New clues in Washington mansion killings Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police: New clues in Washington mansion killings 00:10BALTIMOREPolice talk: The city is suffering through one of the most violent periods in its history, and a pair of cops admit the police are standing by and letting it happen. The officers, who t The city is suffering through one of the most violent periods in its history, and a pair of cops admit the police are standing by and letting it happen. The officers, who t alked to CNN anonymously, said police feel abandoned by the city's leadership and are afraid of being charged criminally for simply doing their jobs. So they are no longer aggressively pursuing the bad guys. After the interview aired, Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony Batts urged them to think of the citizens and "remember why you do this job."JUST WATCHED Baltimore cop: 'This is a life-changing event' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Baltimore cop: 'This is a life-changing event' 05:41INTERNETWeb wonder: Want to get the Want to get the Internet from space ? It's a step closer to reality, now that Elon Musk has asked the government for permission to start testing his idea for getting Web service from beyond the clouds. Musk will launch eight prototype satellites, each quipped with antennas that will send Internet signals back to Earth. The FCC is reviewing the proposal; Musk would like to start testing next year.