(CNN) They gathered at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church to study the Bible -- a small group, 13 people. Many were familiar faces. One was a stranger.But it was unfathomable that this stranger was a killer lying in wait, a man who would kill nine churchgoers and church leaders in cold blood.Police say Dylann Roof went to the church in Charleston, South Carolina, two hours from his home, and shot dead the pastor, other ministers and people who had come Wednesday to learn more about the Word of God.Here's what we know about the deceased:Pastor approached life with purposeThe Rev. Clementa Pinckney died Wednesday doing the work he had always felt was right for him.He was spreading the Word when he and eight others were gunned down in the massacre.JUST WATCHED Charleston remembers shooting victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Charleston remembers shooting victims 02:14Pinckney, 41, answered the call to preach nearly 30 years ago, at the age of 13, according to a biography on the church websiteHe was a high achiever all his life. He was first appointed a pastor when he was 18. He graduated from Allen University magna cum laude and was president of the student body at the Columbia, South Carolina, school.Back then, Ebony magazine even featured him as one of its "Top College Students in America."In 1996, at 23, he was elected to the South Carolina House of Representatives, the youngest black person ever to win such a seat.Four years later, voters elevated him to the state Senate.Pinckney became even more influential through his work as a legislator, pushing several causes -- like recently advocating for legislation to make police wear body cameras, believing it would protect lives, according to his cousin, state Sen. Kent Williams.Photos: Charleston church shooting Photos: Charleston church shooting In this image from the video uplink from the detention center to the courtroom, Dylann Roof appears at a bond hearing June 19, 2015, in South Carolina. Roof is charged with nine counts of murder and firearms charges in the shooting deaths at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina on June 17. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Dylann Roof, the 21-year-old charged with murdering nine people in a church shooting on Wednesday, June 17, is escorted by police in Shelby, North Carolina, on Thursday, June 18. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Law enforcement officers in Charleston, South Carolina, stand guard near the scene of the shooting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting A police officer directs a police vehicle in front of the church on June 18. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Two law enforcement officials said Roof confessed. Roof said he wanted to start a race war, one of the officials said. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police in Charleston close off a section of Calhoun Street early on June 18, after the shooting. The steeple of the church is visible in the background. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Charleston police officers search for the shooting suspect outside the church on Wednesday, June 17. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting People in Charleston pray following the shooting on June 17. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting A woman joins a prayer circle on June 17. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting A man kneels across the street from where police gathered outside the church on June 17. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police gather at the scene of the shooting on June 17. The church was formed in 1816. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting People pray in a hotel parking lot across the street from the scene of the shooting on June 17. Every Wednesday evening, the church holds a Bible study in its basement. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting An armed police officer moves up Calhoun Street on June 17. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting People gather after the shooting. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police stand outside the church. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police close off a section of Calhoun Street near the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police in Charleston released this security-camera image that they say shows Roof entering the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. Hide Caption 17 of 17Washington Post columnist David Broder called him a "political spirit lifter for surprisingly not becoming cynical about politics."U.S. Rep. Mark Sanford, a former governor of South Carolina, was among those who paid tribute Thursday."He was a remarkable human being," Sanford told CNN's "New Day." "He had a gravelly, deep voice -- a radio announcer's voice, if you will -- and he approached life with that same level of gravitas."Williams called Pinckney "a man of character." "He was a God-fearing man. He was a family man."Williams added, "He had a passion for helping the poor, for helping to improve the quality of life for all mankind. But especially those who are the least among us."Pinckney left behind a wife, Jennifer, and two children, Eliana and Malana.Member of Emanuel staff, longtime AME pastorLike Pinckney, the Rev. Daniel Simmons Sr. was on the staff at Emanuel and regularly attended the Wednesday night Bible study sessions.The 74-year-old survived the initial shooting at the church, but he died during surgery.Earlier in his career, Simmons served at Greater Zion AME Church in Awendaw, just northeast of Charleston.They finally released the names.. #rip to my grandfather... Daniel Lee Simmons Sr. #CharlestonChurchShooting — ✨Anya✨ (@_QueenElizvbeth) June 18, 2015Library worker 'dedicated her life' to improving those of othersCynthia Hurd loved God, her family, books and her community, her brother Malcolm Graham told CNN.He described her as the matriarch of the family and the glue that kept them together.She was baptized in the church and went there her whole life. Her late mother sang in the choir.So it was no surprise she would attend a weeknight Bible study.Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Thousands of people march on the Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge in Charleston, South Carolina, on Sunday, June 21. People crossed the bridge, which spans the Cooper River, from Mount Pleasant to Charleston, joining hands in a unity chain to mourn the Emanuel AME Church shooting. Police arrested Dylann Storm Roof in the slayings of nine people at a prayer meeting at the church. Hide Caption 1 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Protesters stand on the South Carolina State House steps during a rally to take down the Confederate flag, on Saturday, June 20, in Columbia. Hide Caption 2 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Louise Brown walks down King Street during a "Black Lives Matter" march on June 20 in Charleston, South Carolina. Hide Caption 3 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The men of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity lead a prayer outside Emanuel AME Church, Friday, June 19. Hide Caption 4 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Young people grieve outside Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, on June 19. Hide Caption 5 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Parishioners applaud during a memorial service on Thursday, June 18, at Morris Brown AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina. Hide Caption 6 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Olina Ortega, left, and Austin Gibbs light candles at a sidewalk memorial in front of Emanuel AME Church on June 18. Hide Caption 7 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The Rev. Jeannie Smalls becomes emotional during a prayer vigil held at Morris Brown AME Church on June 18. Hide Caption 8 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A woman places flowers outside the church on June 18. Hide Caption 9 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Mourners gather for a community prayer service at Second Presbyterian Church in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 10 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Walter Jackson, the son of Susie Jackson who died in the church shooting, recalls stories about his mother with his niece Cynthia Taylor at Jackson's home in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 11 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The Rev. Al Sharpton wipes away a tear after praying outside the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 12 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting People sit on the steps of Morris Brown AME Church in Charleston while services are held June 18. Hide Caption 13 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A woman wipes her eyes at a makeshift memorial near the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 14 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting The Rev. Keith McDaniel, pastor of Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church, is surrounded by others in prayer on June 18 in Spartanburg, South Carolina. Hide Caption 15 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Tyler Francis, right, hugs Shondrey Dear after praying together June 18 at a makeshift memorial near the Emanuel AME Church. Hide Caption 16 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A group of women prays together at a makeshift memorial on the sidewalk in front of the Emanuel AME Church on June 18. Hide Caption 17 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting President Barack Obama, accompanied by Vice President Joe Biden, pauses while speaking in the Brady Press Briefing Room of the White House in Washington, June 18, on the church shooting in Charleston. Hide Caption 18 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Members of the U.S. Congress gather in front of the Capitol Building in Washington on June 18, during a moment of silence for the nine killed in a church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina. Hide Caption 19 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting South Carolina state Sen. Vincent Sheheen gets emotional on June 18 as he sits next to the draped desk of Sen. Clementa Pinckney at the statehouse in Columbia, South Carolina. Pinckney was one of the nine people killed in the church shooting. Hide Caption 20 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Charleston resident Noah Nicolaisen kneels at a makeshift memorial down the street from the church on June 18. Hide Caption 21 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Kim Hamby prays with her daughter Kayla as they lay flowers at a makeshift memorial in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 22 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting A man leans against a light pole as he visits a memorial in Charleston on June 18. Hide Caption 23 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Chaplain James St. John leads senators in prayer June 18 at the statehouse in Columbia. Hide Caption 24 of 25 Photos: Reactions to Charleston church shooting Sandra Bridges lays a card at a memorial on June 18. Hide Caption 25 of 25Hurd's loss is "incomprehensible" to the Charleston County Public Library, where she worked.In a statement, the library said she was much more than an employee. Hurd "dedicated her life to serving and improving the lives of others."All 16 branches of the library were closed Thursday in honor of Hurd, 54, who was manager of the St. Andrews Regional Library. That branch will be renamed in her honor."We ask for prayers for her family, her co-workers, her church and this entire community as we come together to face this tragic loss," the library statement said.Hurd had worked for the library -- "helping residents, making sure they had every opportunity for an education and personal growth" -- for 31 years, the statement said.Her husband, Steve, was working as a longshoreman in Saudi Arabia, and the family is trying to get him home.Hurd also had four older brothers, including Graham, and a younger sister.Speech therapist, reverend was also among victimsSharonda Singleton was living what would appear to be a full and busy life.She was a speech therapist and track coach at Goose Creek High School about 20 miles north of Charleston, having been a track and field athlete when she attended South Carolina State University in Orangeburg.JUST WATCHED Remembering Charleston church shooting victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Remembering Charleston church shooting victims 02:49She was also a reverend at Emanuel AME Church, and she was a member of a sporting family.She was married to Christopher Singleton, who played football at Tennessee State University. And her son, Chris, who was born in 1995, plays baseball for Charleston Southern University.Before fighting off tears as he hugged his teammates, Chris Singleton described his mother as "a God-fearing woman (who) loved everybody with all her heart.""Love is always stronger than hate," he told reporters. "So if we just loved the way my mom would, then the hate won't be anywhere close to what it is."Myra Thompson, Bible study teacherMyra Thompson, 59, also died in the shooting, said Bishop Alphonza Gadsden, who was notified by the victim's family. Gadsden had known Thompson for a decade."She was a person who loved the Lord. Her every objective was to please Him in all that she did. She was teaching Bible study when she was killed," she saidTywanza Sanders: a young man who 'made you smile'Tywanza Sanders' profile picture on Facebook is a selfie showing a young man with a winning smile and a sideways cap.Not only did he smile a lot, he made his friends happy."If you met him, you knew you had a good friend on your side, regardless of anything," T.J. Grant told CNN. "He made you smile even when you didn't want to smile."JUST WATCHED Friends of Tywanza Sanders: He was always smiling Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Friends of Tywanza Sanders: He was always smiling 03:10His friend was very loving, especially of his family, Grant said. Sanders spoke of his mother often and went to see her all the time.The 26-year-old died trying to save his aunt, Susie Jackson, Grant and A.J. Harley said they were told."It's just like Tywanza," Hartley, one of his best friends, told CNN. "He's always been there for everybody, especially to protect a family member. ... So it was good to hear ... that he didn't die in vain."Sanders was a quiet yet well-known student known for his warm and helpful spirit, according to a statement from Allen University, from which he graduated in 2014 from its Division of Business Administration. His friends have renamed a scholarship at their James Island high school in his honor because "that's what he was all about ... being educated, stimulating yourself, growing intellectually," Hartley said.Sanders' engagement in his community, and his sense of self, were also evident in his social media posts -- including some from just hours before the shooting.That includes a Facebook post, around 6 p.m. ET Wednesday, featured a video and the words, "Ever notice how the mainstream media treats black protesters & white rioters differently?"That same day, he put up this quote from baseball groundbreaker Jackie Robinson: "A life is not important except in the impact it has on other lives."This was a young man seemingly intent on going places. His cover photo on Facebook -- the banner photo that spreads behind the profile picture and tops the page -- featured only words in light letters set against a dark background.They said simply: "Your dreams are calling you."University employee, mother 'a light in the midst of darkness'The Rev. DePayne Middleton-Doctor was a school administrator, a passionate Christian and the mother of four daughters, according to friends and colleagues.The 49-year-old Middleton-Doctor started working in December as an admissions coordinator at the Charleston learning center of her alma mater, Southern Wesleyan University, a Christian college."Always a warm and enthusiastic leader, DePayne truly believed in the mission of SWU to help students achieve their potential by connecting faith with learning," university President Todd Voss said.She received her Master's degree in management from the school in 1994 after doing her undergraduate work in biology and life sciences at Columbia College. She was an experienced grant writer and was a consultant for school districts before joining Southern Wesleyan, the school said.The Rev. George McKain, the national public affairs director for AME Zion Church who was in a bible study in North Charleston at the time of the shooting, recalled how Middleton-Doctor as an enthusiastic singer who had "a heart for missions, Christian education, loving all people (and) respective all generations.""She could just bring out the praises of God," McKain told CNN. "She a delight to know, a joy and a light in the midst of darkness."She still sang in the choirSusie Jackson, 87, was a longtime member of the historic Charleston church, her grandson told CNN affiliate WEWS in Cleveland. Tim Jackson remembered his grandmother as a "very helpful person."She was a choir member and also was on the usher board of the church, where she had been a member for many years.Susie Jackson was a very loving, giving person with a great smile, her grandson told the station.Beloved former employee was enjoying retirementEven before her death, Ethel Lance's former co-workers missed her dearly.The 70-year-old had retired in 2002, but she left her mark at the Gaillard Auditorium. She ruled the auditorium's backstage for 34 years, said Cam Patterson, Charleston's director of special facilities."Nobody dared try to move into her territory. That was her pride and joy," Patterson said.Lance was a wonderful employee and person, Patterson said.