(CNN) Yet another New York prison worker is charged with aiding two convicted murderers in their escape. Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev apologizes to his victims. And the Confederate battle flag continues its long fall.It's Thursday, and here are five things to know for your New Day:PRISON BREAKConvicted murderers Richard Matt and David Sweat, who broke out of a New York maximum security prison, had a second helper, investigators believe. In addition to prison tailor Joyce Mitchell, who is accused of sneaking tools to them, prison guard Gene Palmer helped out in various ways, prosecutors say.He was charged with promoting dangerous prison contraband, two counts of destroying evidence and one count of official misconduct, his attorney said. He was arraigned yesterday and appears again in court today.BOSTON BOMBERAdmission and apology: Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev ended his long silence yesterday Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev ended his long silence yesterday to apologize to the people he injured and the loved ones of those he killed. "If there is any lingering doubt ... I did it, along with my brother," he said, bowing his head."Now, I am sorry for the lives that I've taken, for the suffering that I've caused you, for the damage that I've done. Irreparable damage." He told them he is praying for the souls of those he killed and the recovery of those he hurt. Tsarnaev was sentenced to death.JUST WATCHED Boston bombing survivor: I don't accept his apology Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boston bombing survivor: I don't accept his apology 04:54CHARLESTONRising prayers, falling flag: Bible study was back on Bible study was back on at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, a week after nine African-American people were shot and killed in the same room."This territory belongs to God," Norvel Goff Sr. told the roughly 150 people who came yesterday.Meanwhile, the apparent demise of the Confederate battle flag marched on. In Alabama, all four at the Confederate memorial on Capitol grounds came down -- permanently. And the National Park Service announced that it's discontinuing items bearing the flag in its souvenir shops.JUST WATCHED Church holds first Bible study in same room as massacre Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Church holds first Bible study in same room as massacre 02:03BOBBI KRISTINA BROWNHospice care: Her life "is in God's hands now," Bobbi Kristina Brown's Her life "is in God's hands now," Bobbi Kristina Brown's family said yesterday, as she was moved to hospice care. On the same day, Brown's conservator filed a civil suit against her boyfriend Nick Gordon.The suit claims Gordon caused "bodily harm" to Brown and accuses him of stealing more than $11,000 from her accounts since her hospitalization. Gordon was one of two people who found Brown, daughter of deceased singer Whitney Houston, unresponsive in January in a bathtub at her suburban Atlanta home.Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Bobbi Kristina Brown, the daughter of singers Whitney Houston and Bobby Brown, was found unresponsive in a bathtub at her Georgia home on January 31, 2015. She died at an Atlanta-area hospice on July 26, 2015 at the age of 22. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Bobby Brown, Houston and a 3-month-old Bobbi Kristina arrive at New York's Kennedy Airport in 1993. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight In this undated photo, probably from 1993, Houston and her husband pose with their infant daughter. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Bobbi Kristina was photographed with her famous parents often in the early years of their marriage. Here she is with them in the mid-'90s. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Bobbi Kristina, 3, accompanies her mother to the premiere of "The Preacher's Wife" in 1996. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Bobbi Kristina, 6, appears with her mom on stage at a 1999 concert in New York. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Another photo of Bobbi Kristina with her parents, who separated in 2006 and divorced the next year. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Bobbi Kristina, 16, joins her mother for a 2009 appearance on ABC's "Good Morning America." The free performance was taped in New York's Central Park. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Singer-actress Jennifer Hudson, right, poses with 18-year-old Bobbi Kristina at a pre-Grammys gala in 2011. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Bobbi Kristina's famous parents gave her frequent access to music royalty. Here she is with her mother, left, and cousin Dionne Warwick in 2011. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Bobbi Kristina arrives at a 2012 Grammys party in Hollywood, California. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Bobbi Kristina was 18 when her mother was found dead in a Beverly Hills hotel room. Here, Bobbi Kristina arrives at a funeral home in Newark, New Jersey. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Houston's sister-in-law Pat Houston and Bobbi Kristina accept the Millennium Award on behalf of Houston at the 2012 Billboard Music Awards. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Bobbi Kristina and Neil Portnow, president of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, attend "We Will Always Love You: A Grammy Salute to Whitney Houston" in October 2012. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Bobbi Kristina Brown and Nick Gordon arrive at the 2012 movie premiere of "Sparkle" in Hollywood. Brown and Gordon reportedly were engaged in 2013. An attorney for her father says the two never married , contrary to some reports. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Pat Houston and Bobbi Kristina were among the family members appearing in "The Houstons: On Our Own," a reality show that aired on Lifetime in 2012. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Bobbi Kristina and her grandmother Cissy Houston attend a premiere party for the show in October 2012. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: Bobbi Kristina Brown: Growing up in the spotlight Bobbi Kristina posted this photo to Instagram about 2 a.m. ET on Saturday, January 31. Hours later, she was found facedown in her bathtub, alive but unresponsive. Hide Caption 18 of 18BOBBY JINDALLong shot: Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, once a Republican rising star, Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, once a Republican rising star, joined the swelling pack of his party's contenders for president yesterday. In the meantime, his star has sunk considerably.He polls at the bottom with just 1% of potential voters favoring him. In his announcement speech, Jindal sold himself as the successful governor of Louisiana, but the vast majority of his state disagrees with him. His approval rating there currently lies at 32%.