(CNN) Jesse Matthew, who was charged with killing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, on Wednesday ceded that prosecutors have enough evidence to convict him of abduction, sexual assault and attempted murder in a different, decade-old crime, a Virginia prosecutor said.In a Fairfax, Virginia, courtroom, Matthew entered an Alford plea in connection with the 2005 case, which means he does not admit to a criminal act but acknowledges the prosecution has enough evidence to win the case.Fairfax County Commonwealth's Attorney Raymond Morrogh said he considers Matthew's action equal to a guilty plea. Morrogh said the prosecution couldn't have stopped Matthew from entering an Alford plea and no deal was made with the defense to secure a lesser punishment."The defendant pled guilty to all of the charges, which means he faces the full range of punishment," he said.Prosecutor praises 'fantastically brave' victimIn November, Matthew pleaded not guilty to the three charges tied to the September 24, 2005, incident in Fairfax, a city 20 miles west of Washington. The indictment claimed that he"did feloniously, willfully, deliberately, intentionally and with premeditation attempt to kill (the victim) in the commission of or subsequent to an abduction with the intent to defile."Authorities say a 26-year-old woman there was returning from a grocery store when someone grabbed her from behind and sexually assaulted her."We saw her purse on the front sidewalk," said neighbor Stacey Simkins. "He had already dragged her behind our units to the dark pool area."The FBI later indicated that "the offender was scared away by a passerby."The victim flew from India, where she now lives, to testify. She plans to come back "to tell the judge how this has hurt her and affected her entire life, even to this day," Morrogh said."She wants a chance to speak up for herself," added the prosecutor. "I think she's a fantastically brave young woman."Other alleged victim's mother 'reeling,' 'happy'While it happened nine years earlier and 100 miles away, this case is inseparable from that of Hannah Graham -- the University of Virginia sophomore who disappeared last fall and was later found dead.A Fairfax County grand jury indicted Matthew in the sexual assault case two days after authorities found what turned out to be Graham's skull and bones on an abandoned property 8 miles from where she was last seen.JUST WATCHED New indictment against Jesse Matthew Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New indictment against Jesse Matthew 02:56The 18-year-old went missing before dawn on September 13 after a night out in Charlottesville. Matthew was taken into custody 11 days later about 1,300 miles away on a beach in Galveston County, Texas.In February, prosecutors said Matthew would be charged with first-degree murder . Last month, he was served with a new indictment charging him with capital murder after Albemarle County Commonwealth's Attorney Denise Lunsford presented new forensic evidence to the grand jury.Matthew has yet to stand trial in Graham's case. If convicted, he could be sentenced to death on the capital murder charge.Photos: Morgan Harrington Photos: Morgan Harrington A family's anguished journey – Morgan Harrington was a 20-year-old junior at Virginia Tech when she disappeared October 17, 2009, while attending a rock concert in Charlottesville, Virginia. Her skeleton was discovered on January 26, 2010, in a remote hayfield 10 miles from where she vanished. The death was ruled a homicide. A grand jury has now charged Jesse Matthew Jr. with first-degree murder in the case. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Morgan Harrington A family's anguished journey – In 2012, the FBI released these enhanced sketches of the man wanted in the death of Morgan Harrington. DNA linked this man to Harrington's death and the 2005 rape of a 26-year-old woman in Fairfax City, Virginia. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Morgan Harrington A family's anguished journey – Virginia State Police Special Agent Dino Cappuzzo, joined by Morgan Harrington's parents, briefs the media on the farm where her body was found. A $150,000 reward was offered for information leading to an arrest and conviction in the case. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Morgan Harrington A family's anguished journey – Gil Harrington, left, is supported by her husband, Dan Harrington, while visiting the site where their daughter Morgan Harrington's remains were discovered in January 2011 in Charlottesville, Virginia. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Morgan Harrington A family's anguished journey – Mementos from Morgan Harrington's life were displayed at a reception after a memorial mass for her in Roanoke, Virginia. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Morgan Harrington A family's anguished journey – At a ceremony on the anniversary of Morgan Harrington's death, her brother Alex arranges flowers on the Copeley Bridge in Charlottesville, where she was last seen alive. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Morgan Harrington A family's anguished journey – After the killing of their daughter, Dan and Gil Harrington started Help Save The Next Girl, a national campaign to educate young women on how to avoid becoming victims. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Morgan Harrington A family's anguished journey – 2 4 1 is the Harrington's family's code for, "I love you too much, for ever, and once more." Hide Caption 8 of 8Harrington's mother, Gil, attended Wednesday's court proceedings in Fairfax which she said left her reeling. She expressed gratitude for the 2005 victim for speaking up, saying "I'm sure she didn't feel like the lucky one, but thank God" she came forward."I certainly want a day in court for my daughter," Gil Harrington told reporters. "But I am happy that it is very unlikely that this criminal will hurt anyone again."