(CNN) His wife is accused of helping two convicted murderers break out of a New York prison. And the escape plan, a source says, also included a plot to end his life.But how much did Lyle Mitchell know?That's one question investigators are asking as they search for two fugitives in a massive manhunt.The answer depends on whom you ask.A source with direct knowledge of the investigation told CNN that prison tailor Joyce Mitchell knew the inmates had plotted to kill her husband, told him about their plans to break out of the facility and warned him that his life could be in danger.But a lawyer representing Lyle Mitchell said the husband, who also worked in the prison's tailoring block, was kept in the dark."He didn't know anything about the escape plan," attorney Peter Dumas said.A jailhouse visitAt this point, investigators don't believe Lyle Mitchell was involved in plotting the escape, the source with direct knowledge of the investigation said.On Tuesday, Lyle Mitchell was face to face with his wife for the first time since her arrest last week. She's accused of sneaking hacksaw blades, chisels, drill bits, a punch and other contraband into the convicts' hands before they broke out.The couple spent an hour together and were separated by glass, speaking over a phone in a private, unmonitored conversation, Clinton County Sheriff David Favro said.Lyle Mitchell was supportive, and his wife seemed comforted by his visit -- her first since her arrest, the sheriff said."He's providing support," Dumas said. "He's not planning to testify on her behalf."Joyce Mitchell's attorney, Stephen Johnston, said he did not know what the two talked about. He described his client's state of mind as "distraught, very weepy and very upset."Dumas said Lyle Mitchell is also struggling to deal with what's happened, and the revelation that "possibly there was a plan to do some harm to him.""He's very confused. It's just a lot that's been thrown on his plate right now," Dumas said. "He's kind of reeling."Clinton County District Attorney Andrew Wylie has not commented much on the husband, other than to say he's under investigation.Relationships under scrutinyInvestigators are looking into whether other prison workers were involved in the escape and whether other inmates might have helped create some type of diversion before, during or after Richard Matt and David Sweat escaped, the source said.Joyce Mitchell has pleaded not guilty to the two charges brought against her and has been talking to authorities. If convicted, she could face up to eight years behind bars.Authorities are investigating whether the two inmates threatened Mitchell to force her to help, the New York state official told CNN. Investigators believe Mitchell began getting cold feet about executing the plan but possibly had agreed to be the getaway driver because of threats to her and her husband, the official said.But her relationship with the prisoners was years in the making, authorities said.She'd been investigated in the past for an inappropriate relationship with Sweat that led corrections officials to move him out of the tailor shop in 2013 and keep them separated, said Wylie, the district attorney.JUST WATCHED Source: Escapees planned to kill Joyce Mitchell's husband Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Source: Escapees planned to kill Joyce Mitchell's husband 03:25That's the year when she started having a sexual relationship with Matt, the source said.The sexual relationship took place at the tailor shop in the Clinton Correctional Facility, the only known place the two were together, the source said.Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat were on the run after they escaped from the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York, on Saturday, June 6. Matt was killed by police on Friday, June 26. Sweat was captured two days later and is now in police custody. Hide Caption 1 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Hide Caption 2 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Matt's body lies on the ground after he was killed by police on June 26. Hide Caption 3 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Sweat was captured on June 28, multiple law enforcement sources briefed on the investigation told CNN. He was shot twice in a field by a New York state trooper and taken into custody in upstate New York, close to the Canadian border. Hide Caption 4 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Sweat is bloodied, shirtless and cuffed at the ankles, and he appears to be breathing into an oxygen mask after his capture on June 28. Hide Caption 5 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Police escort ambulances from an area where law enforcement officers were searching for Sweat on June 28. Hide Caption 6 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officials are seen in the side-view mirror of a car as they stand guard June 28 in Duane, New York. Hide Caption 7 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners FBI agents conduct a search for Sweat near Duane on June 28. Hide Caption 8 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An FBI agent searches for Sweat on June 28. Hide Caption 9 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers man a roadblock in Malone, New York, on Saturday, June 27. Hide Caption 10 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers talk to motorists at a roadblock near Malone on June 27. Hide Caption 11 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers stand guard near the site where Matt was shot and killed in Malone on June 26. Hide Caption 12 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A New York State Police officer stands guard near the shooting scene in Malone on June 26. Hide Caption 13 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers and a forest ranger, back, search a barn in Owls Head, New York, on June 26. Hide Caption 14 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Corrections officers stop a vehicle Monday, June 22, in Owls Head, about 20 to 25 miles west of the prison where Matt and Sweat escaped. The discovery of the escapees' DNA in a cabin re-energized the search for the fugitives. Hide Caption 15 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A bus transports corrections officers to a search area in Mountain View, New York, on June 22. Hide Caption 16 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers use all-terrain vehicles in Mountain View on June 22. Hide Caption 17 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Corrections officers search railroad tracks near Friendship, New York, on Sunday, June 21, after a possible sighting of the fugitives. Hide Caption 18 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police officers gather along Route 20 near Friendship on June 21. Hide Caption 19 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A task force of U.S. Marshals and police officers go door to door near Dannemora, New York, searching for the two escaped murderers on Tuesday, June 16. Hide Caption 20 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Troopers stop civilian cars at a checkpoint outside Dannemora on Monday, June 15. Hide Caption 21 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Prison tailor Joyce Mitchell, charged with aiding the escape, appeared in court on Monday, June 15. Hide Caption 22 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Department of Corrections officers work a roadblock in Saranac, New York, on Saturday, June 13. Hide Caption 23 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement personnel line the roadside on June 13 as they search an area in Cadyville, New York. Hide Caption 24 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners New York State Police prepare equipment during the search on Thursday, June 11. Hide Caption 25 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Authorities block a road in Cadyville during the manhunt on June 11. Hide Caption 26 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners A Vermont state trooper heads out on Lake Champlain in Burlington, Vermont, on June 11. Hide Caption 27 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers question a woman who lives near the Dannemora prison on Wednesday, June 10. Hide Caption 28 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An employee stands guard at the Clinton Correctional Facility on June 10. Hide Caption 29 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An officer checks the trunk of a car at a checkpoint near the Dannemora border on June 10. Hide Caption 30 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Officers continue their search in Essex, New York, on Tuesday, June 9. Hide Caption 31 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners An officer walks through a swampy area near Essex on June 9. Hide Caption 32 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners Law enforcement officers search a wooded area in Dannemora on Monday, June 8. Hide Caption 33 of 34 Photos: Manhunt for escaped New York prisoners State corrections officers monitor traffic June 8 at the Clinton Correctional Facility. See photos of the route the escaped prisoners took Hide Caption 34 of 34Search area growsWith few clues pointing toward where Matt and Sweat went after they escaped, investigators are changing tack.It's day 11 of the search, and now the area hundreds of law enforcement officers are combing is expanding, New York State Police said Tuesday evening.Teams will be redeployed to new areas near the prison in Dannemora, New York, police said, saying the shifting search zone was based on information uncovered so far in the hunt for the fugitives.More than 800 local, state and federal officers are popping open trunks, peering into cars and scouring heavily wooded areas. Canine units are also still searching for a scent that might lead police to Matt and Sweat, who escaped from the maximum-security facility known as "Little Siberia" in upstate New York on June 6.Motion detectors and cameras have been placed in the woods, and an airplane able to fly at high altitude and detect movements on the ground is aiding in the search, a New York state official said. But despite promising leads, the official said, the search has gone cold.Authorities are also offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the escaped inmates' arrests.It's not clear how much has been spent, but judging from the boots on the ground, it can't be cheap.Police have developed 1,200 leads, according to New York State Police. But so far it's not clear whether any of them will pan out. Authorities have said the killers could be anywhere -- in Vermont, Mexico or still be in the woods near the prison.