(CNN) The site of a horrific mass killing becomes a house of worship once again. The manhunt for two New York prison escapees shifts again after a weekend of possible sightings. And Taylor Swift wins big in her battle with Apple.It's Monday, and here are five things to know for your new day:CHARLESTON CHURCH SHOOTINGFive days ago, the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church was filled with horror after a gunman opened fire, killing nine members. On Sunday, the historic South Carolina church was filled not just with grief, but with faith and gratitude as worshipers united for their first service since the massacre . "The doors of the church are open," the Rev. Norvel Goff said during prayers. "No evildoer, no demon in hell or on Earth can close the doors of God's church." Meanwhile, investigators are looking into a 2,000-word racist manifesto featured on a website registered to the suspect'I don't look at you with the eyes of hatred''I don't look at you with the eyes of hatred' 02:52'I don't look at you with the eyes of hatred'CONFEDERATE FLAG DEBATETime for change? The Charleston massacre has reignited the debate over whether the Confederate flag should keep flying over the capitol in Columbia. Republican state Rep. Doug Brannon plans to introduce a bill to remove the flag when the South Carolina legislature convenes in January, The Charleston massacre has reignited the debate over whether the Confederate flag should keep flying over the capitol in Columbia. Republican state Rep. Doug Brannon plans to introduce a bill to remove the flag when the South Carolina legislature convenes in January, but getting that bill passed could be tough . And several presidential candidates are tip-toeing around the issue in a state that hosts a key primary for next year's election.JUST WATCHED Confederate flag: A symbol of hate or history? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Confederate flag: A symbol of hate or history? 08:11NEW YORK PRISON BREAKLong-distance chase: Police Police swarmed the upstate New York town of Owls Head as the manhunt for two escaped killers shifted once again. Monday marks day 17 of the search for Richard Matt and David Sweat, who have eluded authorities since carving their way out of a maximum-security prison on June 6. Over the weekend, witnesses reported seeing two suspicious men in Allegany County, near the Pennsylvania border, but police said the search of that area wrapped up late Sunday.JUST WATCHED New York manhunt intensifies near prison Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New York manhunt intensifies near prison 02:36NEW ORLEANS OFFICER KILLEDHow did he get the gun? The man accused of killing a New Orleans police officer Saturday apparently had access to two guns at the time of the shooting -- The man accused of killing a New Orleans police officer Saturday apparently had access to two guns at the time of the shooting -- even though he had been searched, handcuffed and placed in the backseat of a squad car , police said. Officer Daryle Holloway was taking aggravated assault suspect Travis Boys to jail early Saturday. Before the four-mile ride from the police station to the jail was over, Holloway was dead, and Boys was missing.JUST WATCHED Arrest in shooting death of New Orleans police officer Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Arrest in shooting death of New Orleans police officer 01:48TAYLOR SWIFT VICTORYTay-Tay gets her way-way: Taylor Swift has apparently prompted a policy change at Apple after threatening to withhold her album "1989" from the company's streaming music service. Swift's beef is with the three-month free trial period Apple is promoting. "Apple Music will not be paying writers, producers, or artists for those three months," she wrote. "I find it to be shocking, disappointing, and completely unlike this historically progressive and generous company." Apple's response on Twitter? "#AppleMusic will pay artist for streaming, even during customer's free trial period," an exec tweeted, adding that " Taylor Swift has apparently prompted a policy change at Apple after threatening to withhold her album "1989" from the company's streaming music service. Swift's beef is with the three-month free trial period Apple is promoting. "Apple Music will not be paying writers, producers, or artists for those three months," she wrote. "I find it to be shocking, disappointing, and completely unlike this historically progressive and generous company." Apple's response on Twitter? "#AppleMusic will pay artist for streaming, even during customer's free trial period," an exec tweeted, adding that " We hear you @taylorswift13 and indie artists. Love, Apple ."