Story highlights Talent manager Jessica Marie Steindorff files civil lawsuit against JennerAnother civil suit was filed against Jenner by family of Kim Howe, who died at the scene(CNN) A second lawsuit has been filed against Caitlyn Jenner in connection with a fatal, four-car accident that happened in February on California's Pacific Coast Highway.The personal injury suit was filed Monday in Los Angeles Superior Court by Jessica Marie Steindorff, a talent manager who works in Hollywood. Steindorff was driving a 2010 Toyota Prius that was part of a chain-reaction crash in Malibu on February 7. Her lawsuit claims that Jenner operated a vehicle "negligently, carelessly, recklessly and wantonly" and caused the collision.It refers to Jenner as "Bruce Jenner a/k/a Caitlyn Jenner" and seeks unspecified damages.Photos: Bruce Jenner involved in fatal wreck Photos: Bruce Jenner involved in fatal wreck Former Olympic decathlon champion and reality TV star Bruce Jenner was involved in a fatal four-car accident on Saturday, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said in a statement. Jenner was not injured. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Bruce Jenner involved in fatal wreck A Los Angeles County Sheriff's deputy photographs the scene. One of the drivers involved in the wreck was killed on Pacific Coast Highway near Corral Canyon Road, a news release stated. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Bruce Jenner involved in fatal wreck Members of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department work the wreck scene. Jenner was the driver of one vehicle, Deputy Ray Hicks told CNN.Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Bruce Jenner involved in fatal wreck The accident closed a stretch of Pacific Coast Highway in Malibu. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Bruce Jenner involved in fatal wreck Deputies stand guard at the scene. Five people were hospitalized with injuries.Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Bruce Jenner involved in fatal wreck The sheriff's department later opened a vehicular manslaughter investigation, a source close to the case told CNN legal analyst Mark Geragos. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Bruce Jenner involved in fatal wreck The wreck occurred just yards from the Pacific Ocean. Hide Caption 7 of 7Steindorff's Prius was stopped in traffic when it was rear-ended by a white Lexus, according to sheriff's deputies. That Lexus was then rear-ended by Jenner's black Cadillac Escalade SUV, which was towing a trailer with an all-terrain vehicle on it. The impact from Jenner's vehicle propelled the white Lexus into traffic, where it collided with a black Hummer H2. The driver of the white Lexus, 69-year-old Kim Howe of Calabasas, California, died at the scene.Howe's adult stepchildren have already filed a civil lawsuit against Jenner, seeking unspecified damages and the cost of the suit.Read More