(CNN) A planned getaway ride may have fallen flat, leaving jail breakers Richard Matt and David Sweat stranded in upstate New York and hurled into an arduous game of survival.Like other fugitives before them, the convicted killers will need backwoods skills and perhaps crime to get by, while they run from hundreds of officers hunting them from planes, cars, boats and on foot over a hazardous landscape.The desperation to stay alive and keep their freedom can make dangerous men even more lethal, especially if they manage to get their hands on guns. For years, fugitives have sought refuge in the wild, where they have ambushed officers and eluded them for days, weeks, even years on some of America's most notorious manhunts:Lovebird bandits Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow are believed to have committed 13 murders and several robberies and burglaries before they were ambushed and killed by police in 1934.Lovebird bandits Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow are believed to have committed 13 murders and several robberies and burglaries before they were ambushed and killed by police in 1934.Once a fixture on the FBI's "Most Wanted" list, al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed by U.S. Navy SEALs in an Abbottabad, Pakistan, compound on May 2, 2011.Once a fixture on the FBI's "Most Wanted" list, al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed by U.S. Navy SEALs in an Abbottabad, Pakistan, compound on May 2, 2011.Eric Robert Rudolph -- who was convicted of a string of bombings, including one at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta -- eluded capture until 2003. He was arrested in Murphy, North Carolina, and is serving four consecutive life sentences plus 120 years.Eric Robert Rudolph -- who was convicted of a string of bombings, including one at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta -- eluded capture until 2003. He was arrested in Murphy, North Carolina, and is serving four consecutive life sentences plus 120 years.The FBI is still searching for Abdul Rahman Yasin, a suspect in the February 26, 1993, World Trade Center bombing that killed six and injured more than 1,000 people in New York. Six other suspects were convicted in the attack.The FBI is still searching for Abdul Rahman Yasin, a suspect in the February 26, 1993, World Trade Center bombing that killed six and injured more than 1,000 people in New York. Six other suspects were convicted in the attack.Ted Bundy raped and murdered dozens of women across the country in the 1970s. He escaped from prison twice but was captured after being stopped for driving a stolen car in 1978. He was executed in Florida in 1989.Ted Bundy raped and murdered dozens of women across the country in the 1970s. He escaped from prison twice but was captured after being stopped for driving a stolen car in 1978. He was executed in Florida in 1989.Former Los Angeles police officer Christopher Dorner, accused of killing four people, led police on a chase lasting days before he was tracked to a hideout in the San Bernardino Mountains. He took his own life in February 2013.Former Los Angeles police officer Christopher Dorner, accused of killing four people, led police on a chase lasting days before he was tracked to a hideout in the San Bernardino Mountains. He took his own life in February 2013.Boston was on edge for days during a massive manhunt for the suspects responsible for the marathon bombings in April 2013. Finally, authorities apprehended Dzhokhar Tsarnaev after an overnight shootout with police that resulted in the death of his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev. A federal jury sentenced Tsarnaev to death in May 2015 for his involvement in the bombings that killed three and injured more than 260 people.Boston was on edge for days during a massive manhunt for the suspects responsible for the marathon bombings in April 2013. Finally, authorities apprehended Dzhokhar Tsarnaev after an overnight shootout with police that resulted in the death of his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev. A federal jury sentenced Tsarnaev to death in May 2015 for his involvement in the bombings that killed three and injured more than 260 people.Eric Toth, a former private school teacher and camp counselor, was on the FBI's "Ten Most Wanted" fugitives list when he was captured in Nicaragua in April 2013. The investigation into the suspected child predator began in June 2008 after pornographic images of children were found on a school camera that had allegedly been in his possession.Eric Toth, a former private school teacher and camp counselor, was on the FBI's "Ten Most Wanted" fugitives list when he was captured in Nicaragua in April 2013. The investigation into the suspected child predator began in June 2008 after pornographic images of children were found on a school camera that had allegedly been in his possession.Convicted mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger spent more than a decade on the FBI's "Most Wanted" list before being arrested in June 2011 in Santa Monica, California. The jury in his federal racketeering trial found him guilty on 31 of 32 counts -- including involvement in 11 murders -- in August 2013. He is currently serving two consecutive life sentences in prison.Convicted mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger spent more than a decade on the FBI's "Most Wanted" list before being arrested in June 2011 in Santa Monica, California. The jury in his federal racketeering trial found him guilty on 31 of 32 counts -- including involvement in 11 murders -- in August 2013. He is currently serving two consecutive life sentences in prison.Edward Snowden, the man who leaked top-secret details about U.S. surveillance programs, has been charged with three felony counts, including violations of the U.S. Espionage Act. He left the United States and hid out in Hong Kong until WikiLeaks helped him move to Moscow, where he lived in an airport for about five weeks before being granted temporary asylum in Russia in August 2013. Snowden has said he is afraid he would not get a fair trial if he came back to the United States.State troopers escort Eric Matthew Frein from the state police barracks in Blooming Grove, Pennsylvania, on October 31, 2014. Frein, who is accused of killing a Pennsylvania state trooper and wounding another, was found at an abandoned airport near Tannersville, Pennsylvania, authorities said. He had been on the run for nearly two months.State troopers escort Eric Matthew Frein from the state police barracks in Blooming Grove, Pennsylvania, on October 31, 2014. Frein, who is accused of killing a Pennsylvania state trooper and wounding another, was found at an abandoned airport near Tannersville, Pennsylvania, authorities said. He had been on the run for nearly two months.Guards in an upstate New York prison found the cells of convicted murderers Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat empty during an early morning bed check on June 6, 2015. Three weeks later, Matt was shot and killed by police officers near the Canadian border. Sweat was captured in the same area two days later, ending a massive and costly manhunt.Guards in an upstate New York prison found the cells of convicted murderers Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat empty during an early morning bed check on June 6, 2015. Three weeks later, Matt was shot and killed by police officers near the Canadian border. Sweat was captured in the same area two days later, ending a massive and costly manhunt.Richard Matt and David SweatWanted forMatt and Sweat are convicted killers. Matt held a man hostage, and when ransom money didn't come across, he broke the victim's neck and dismembered his body. Sweat shot a deputy to death then ran over him.Law enforcement wants them back behind bars to serve out their sentences.The huntWith power tools, they cut through a cell wall that included a steel plate, maneuvered across a catwalk, shimmied down six stories to a tunnel of pipes, followed that tunnel, broke through a double-brick wall, cut into a 24-inch steam pipe, climbed through the steam pipe, cut another hole so they could get out of the pipe and finally surfaced through a manhole.JUST WATCHED Aerial search for the escaped killers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Aerial search for the escaped killers 02:24But it seems a possible accomplice, a getaway driver, backed out of picking them up and went to the hospital with panic attacks. Authorities fear Matt and Sweat may have crossed into Vermont; the state has joined the manhunt and will allow New York State law enforcement to cross the state line to chase them, if they have to.How it endedIt hasn't yet.Early Thursday, they were still on the lam. That's odd for New York State prison breaks. Authorities usually round up escaped prisoners within little more than a day.Though their jail break illustrates their cunning and skill, Matt and Sweat are not known to be trained survivalists. Other fugitives who were have led brigades of officers on weeks-long chases.Eric FreinFrein did have survivalist skills from his apparent experiences in war . It took police seven weeks to track him down in rural Pennsylvania in October last year. His alleged crimes and the manhunt landed him on the FBI Top Ten Fugitives list.Wanted forFrein was notorious for hating law enforcement and allegedly shot to death Pennsylvania State Police Cpl. Bryon Dickson and wounded Trooper Alex Douglas last year.The huntThe survivalist, who was 31 at the time, claimed to have fought in wars in Serbia and Africa and was a trained marksman . It appeared he had the troopers' blood fresh on his hands, when he led dozens of law officers traipsing through forest and field.JUST WATCHED Eric Frein pleads not guilty in trooper's death Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Eric Frein pleads not guilty in trooper's death 01:50Frein belonged to a simulation group that re-enacted Cold War-era European conflicts with non-lethal Airsoft guns. But authorities believed he had turned that activity lethal. He was later found carrying a rifle and a pistol.How it endedU.S. Marshal's Service special operations officers found Frein at an abandoned airport in Tannersville . He didn't put up a fight. In an arraignment in January this year, Frein pleaded not guilty in the shooting of the troopers.Christopher DornerDorner was professionally trained in the Navy's counterinsurgency program and as a police officer, making him one of the most dangerously skilled fugitives in recent times.Wanted forHe went on a killing rampage in 2013. After legal moves to reverse his 2009 firing from the Los Angeles Police Department failed, Dorner threatened to exact bloody revenge on the LAPD by waging guerrilla warfare. He started by killing loved ones of someone involved in his case on February 3, 2013. Then police picked up pursuit.Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Photos: Manhunt for Christopher Dorner – Detectives investigate the scene where officers fired on a vehicle they believed was Christopher Dorner's on February 7, in Torrance, California. Two people in the truck were wounded. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – An employee of Southern California Edison surveys the damage at the burned-out cabin where the remains of multiple-murder suspect and former Los Angeles Police Department officer Christopher Dorner were found on Friday, February 15, in Big Bear, California. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – A statue of an angel stands on a wood column in front of the burned cabin on February 15. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – An evidence flag placed by San Bernardino County Sheriff's crime scene investigators sits on pile of rubble in the burned cabin on February 15. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Cindy Bachman, public information officer for the San Bernardino Sheriff's Department, updates the media after a standoff and a shootout with Dorner on Tuesday, February 12. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Police search cars at a blockade as they come down off the mountain during a manhunt for Dorner on February 12. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Cindy Bachman, information officers for the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department, speaks to reporters at a roadblock near Big Bear Lake, California, on Tuesday, February 12. Christopher Jordan Dorner has been the subject of a massive manhunt and is accused of killing one police officer and wounding two others, as well as killing the daughter of his police union representative and her fiance on Sunday. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Authorities take positions during the manhunt for former LAPD officer Christopher Jordan Dorner near the town of Angelus Oaks, California, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – San Bernardino County Sheriff SWAT team members return to the command post at Bear Mountain in Big Bear Lake, California, on Friday, February 8, after heavy snow hindered the manhunt for ex-LAPD cop Christopher Jordan Dorner. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Officers keep watch outside of the Twin Towers Jail in response to an unconfirmed sighting of Dorner in Los Angeles. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Officers investigate the burned out truck of Christopher Jordan Dorner that was discovered at the base of Bear Mountain Ski Resort in Big Bear Lake, California, on Thursday, February 7. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Department of Homeland Security officers search vehicles at the San Ysidro Port of Entry in San Diego on February 7 as they search for former LAPD officer Christopher Dorner. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck speaks at a press conference about the manhunt for Dorner as photos of the suspect stand in the background on February 7. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – An illuminated sign at San Diego State University along Interstate 8 displays information about Dorner's last known vehicle on February 7. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – San Diego Harbor Police officers near Naval Base Point Loma armed with high-powered firearms walk along a street on February 7 in San Diego. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Investigators inspect a bullet-ridden squad car where a police officer was shot on Magnolia Avenue in Corona, California on February 7. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Ex-cop at center of California manhunt Ex-cop at center of California manhunt – Police stand guard near a LAPD car where a police officer was shot on Magnolia Avenue as officers across the state remain on high alert. Hide Caption 17 of 17The huntAs he eluded them into the San Bernardino Mountains, Dorner kept on killing. Officers scoured the winter landscape on snowcats and in armored vehicles for days, searching some 200 vacant cabins.They trudged through knee-high snow with rifles. Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa announced a $1 million reward for information leading to Dorner's arrest and conviction.How it endedNine days after his first double-murder, California Fish and Wildlife wardens spotted Dorner in a car and gave chase. He crashed then carjacked a pickup truck. He fled to a cabin, where he got into a shootout with sheriff's deputies, killing one and wounding another. Police tossed smoke devices inside the cabin, which caught fire and burned for hours. They later found a charred body there.Authorities believe Dorner, who was 33, took his own life. On his rampage, he killed four people -- the daughter of his police union representative, her fiancé, a police officer in suburban Riverside and a sheriff's deputy.Eric RudolphThe reclusive outdoors enthusiast set the bomb that killed two people at Atlanta's Centennial Olympic Park during the 1996 Summer Olympic Games. He, too, landed on the FBI's most wanted list.Wanted forIn addition to that attack, Rudolph was wanted for the bombings in the late 1990s of two abortion clinics, one in Atlanta and one in Birmingham, Alabama. And he bombed an Atlanta nightclub popular with lesbians. One person died and 12 more were injured in those attacks.In the case of the Birmingham attack, Rudolph later admitted he detonated the bomb by remote control, while Robert Sanderson, a 35-year-old off-duty police officer working as a security guard, was standing over it. Sanderson died.File photo from July 27, 1996, showing a deserted Centennial Olympic Park in Atlanta after an early-morning bomb blastThe huntLaw enforcement agencies begin looking for Rudolph in 1998, after witnesses reported seeing his gray 1989 Nissan pickup near the Birmingham clinic before the blast. He successfully eluded them -- for five years.Hundreds of law enforcement officers conducted a door-to-door search and combed woods in North Carolina. The dense foliage made a helicopter with infrared sensors capable of detecting signs of life on the ground useless. Rudolph hid well in the woods he knew well.To protest what he felt was the persecution of his brother by the FBI and the media, Daniel Rudolph set up a camera in his Summerville, South Carolina, garage and cut off his hand with a circular saw. It was later surgically reattached.Bombing suspect Eric Robert Rudolph is escorted from the Cherokee County JailHow it endedWhen he confronted the man, he fled, but Postell caught up with him. The suspect was compliant. He had no ID, but told Postell who he was -- Eric Rudolph.After a series of guilty pleas, Rudolph was sentenced to a total of 120 years in prison. In 2005, he apologized to his victims and their families for his 1996 bombing of Centennial Olympic Park. But he did not apologize to the victims of his other attacks.Rudolph is currently incarcerated at the Supermax prison in Florence, Colorado.