Charleston, South Carolina (CNN) The battle may at last be over for the Confederate battle flag.Just over 150 years after the Civil War ended, and less than a week after the massacre of innocents in a Charleston church by a man who venerates the flag, voices from all parts of the political spectrum are rising in unison to say the flag must no longer fly over public buildings.To too many, it symbolizes not heritage but hate. To too large a segment of the population, it is, quite simply, offensive. And, while it has fluttered for years in the warm Southern breezes atop many state Capitol buildings in the the former Confederacy, its time, it appears, has come and gone.At lightning speed this week, state legislators and chief executives took giant steps to remove it from public view.The state Legislature in South Carolina plans to debate removing the flag Tuesday, a day after the governor urged lawmakers to remove it from the statehouse grounds.In Mississippi -- the only state that still includes the Confederate battle flag as part of its state flag -- an influential conservative leader said it was time to change that.The echoing words: 'Take it down'The growing national sentiment could be summed up in three words that will echo in the ears of South Carolina lawmakers when they convene on Tuesday: "Take it down."Prominent conservatives from Mitt Romney to Jeb Bush to South Carolina's two U.S. senators and its governor, Nikki Haley , are calling for the traditionally red state to furl the flag that flies on Capitol property and display it instead in a museum.After the racist massacre last week of nine black worshippers at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, significant political support for keeping the Civil War relic appears to have ebbed away.Charleston shooting victimsAt 11 a.m. on Tuesday, two hours before legislators meet, protesters will gather in front of the State House, as they did over the weekend, to chant the phrase again: "Take it down; take it down."Haley will ask lawmakers to heed that call.United they standThe cry has united traditionally liberal NAACP leaders with conservative white Republicans, all disgusted by the killings and some newly sensitized to the insult that the flag from the final days of slavery carries for black people and many other Americans."Today we are here in a moment of unity in our state, without ill will, to say it is time to remove the flag from our Capitol grounds," Haley said Monday.The thought was shared by NAACP leader Rev. Nelson B. Rivers."The time has come for the General Assembly to do what it ought to have done a long time ago, which is to remove this symbol of division and even of terrorism to some," he said.Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME People line up to enter the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, before a worship service on Sunday, June 21. It was the first service at the church since a racially motivated shooter killed nine people there on Wednesday, June 17. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME Church member Kevin Polite helps members into the church for the service. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME The Rev. Norvel Goff prays at the empty seat of the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, who was killed in the shooting. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME Parishioners fill the pews for the service. Church elders decided to hold the regularly scheduled Sunday school and worship service as they continue to grieve. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME The Rev. Norvel Goff delivers a sermon during the service. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME Parishioners pray and comfort each other during the service. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME Parishioners join together in song. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley embraces U.S. Sen Tim Scott. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME Parishioners Shakur Francis, left, and Karen Watson-Fleming sing as they attend the service. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME North Charleston Mayor R. Keith Summey, left, and Charleston Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. attend the service. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Worshippers return to Charleston's Emanuel AME People listen to the Sunday service from outside the church. Hide Caption 11 of 11Rivers said the flag symbolizes the worst of South Carolina's history. Removing it would honor those killed at Emanuel AME.South Carolina's movement to remove the flag made waves in other parts of the country on Monday. Mississippi's Republican House Speaker Philip Gunn said the Confederate flag, which is part of Mississippi's state flag, "has become a point of offense that needs to be removed."Stubborn divisive symbolThe dilemma of what to do with the Confederate battle flag -- a symbol of racism to many and of Southern heritage to others -- has flustered lawmakers for years.It was carried into battle for only four years, during the American Civil War. But it has hung on for 150 years in Southern states and has been incorporated into some state flags.Racist hate groups, including the Ku Klux Klan and other white supremacist organizations, have appropriated the Confederate battle flag in defiance of the civil rights of African-Americans.JUST WATCHED Confederate flag: A symbol of hate or history? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Confederate flag: A symbol of hate or history? 08:11As part of a compromise in 2000, South Carolina lawmakers agreed to remove the Confederate flag from the top of the Capitol dome, where it previously flew, and place it across the street while also adding a monument to African-Americans. But the legislation mandated that only a supermajority of the legislature could change that setup going forward.Republican state Rep. Doug Brannon has already committed to introducing a bill to remove the flag when the Legislature convenes in January. "I apologize to the people of South Carolina," he said. "I've been in the House for five years. I should have introduced this bill five years ago."If legislators fail to act on its removal Tuesday, Haley will call for them to reconvene.Racist manifestoIn the meantime, investigators have come across a website with photos of Dylann Roof , who has admitted he was the gunman, holding the Confederate flag and burning and spitting on the American flag.The site, which is registered to Roof but otherwise does not mention his name, features a 2,000-word racist manifesto that details the writer's philosophy of white superiority.Photos: Charleston church shooting Photos: Charleston church shooting In this image from the video uplink from the detention center to the courtroom, Dylann Roof appears at a bond hearing June 19, 2015, in South Carolina. Roof is charged with nine counts of murder and firearms charges in the shooting deaths at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina on June 17. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Dylann Roof, the 21-year-old charged with murdering nine people in a church shooting on Wednesday, June 17, is escorted by police in Shelby, North Carolina, on Thursday, June 18. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Law enforcement officers in Charleston, South Carolina, stand guard near the scene of the shooting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting A police officer directs a police vehicle in front of the church on June 18. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Two law enforcement officials said Roof confessed. Roof said he wanted to start a race war, one of the officials said. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police in Charleston close off a section of Calhoun Street early on June 18, after the shooting. The steeple of the church is visible in the background. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Charleston police officers search for the shooting suspect outside the church on Wednesday, June 17. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting People in Charleston pray following the shooting on June 17. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting A woman joins a prayer circle on June 17. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting A man kneels across the street from where police gathered outside the church on June 17. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police gather at the scene of the shooting on June 17. The church was formed in 1816. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting People pray in a hotel parking lot across the street from the scene of the shooting on June 17. Every Wednesday evening, the church holds a Bible study in its basement. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting An armed police officer moves up Calhoun Street on June 17. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting People gather after the shooting. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police stand outside the church. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police close off a section of Calhoun Street near the scene of the shooting. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Charleston church shooting Police in Charleston released this security-camera image that they say shows Roof entering the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. Hide Caption 17 of 17"I chose Charleston because it is most historic city in my state, and at one time had the highest ratio of blacks to Whites in the country," the author wrote.Roof said he was trying to start a race war with his killings. That seems to have backfired. During his court hearing on Friday , loved ones of his victims forgave him through their sobs and told him they were praying for his soul.Their grief has triggered a national outpouring of sympathy.Presidential eulogyOn Sunday at the church, at a service to memorialize the nine who were killed, a chair sat empty with a black cloak draped over it. It's where the Rev. Clementa Pinckney would have been sitting, had the pastor and eight other worshippers not been shot down as they studied the Bible.Obama will deliver the eulogy at the funeral for Pinckney, who was also a state senator.