(CNN) Prison worker Joyce Mitchell is in custody, accused of aiding in a daring prison escape. The two convicted killers she allegedly helped are free, but on the run.Mitchell allegedly provided Richard Matt and David Sweat with the tools to cut through cell walls for their escape from an upstate New York prison a week ago."The defendant did intentionally ... and unlawfully introduce hacksaw blades, chisels, a punch and a screwdriver bit, dangerous contraband, into Clinton Correctional Facility," court records said.Mitchell allegedly brought the items to the prison on May 1.She was arraigned Friday night on a felony charge of promoting prison contraband and a misdemeanor charge of criminal facilitation. She pleaded not guilty.If convicted, she faces up to eight years behind bars.Joyce MitchellConvict made her feel 'special'Matt and Sweat's escape was discovered during an early morning bed check at Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora.While making their escape, they slipped through holes and cut into a steel plate and a steam pipe, then got out through a manhole and onto the street.And Mitchell had a lot to do with their ability to plan out the daring escape, authorities said.She supplied tools used in the escape and was their possible getaway driver before she got cold feet, authorities said. Her cell phone was also used to make calls to people connected to Matt, according to a source. It's not known who made these calls.Mitchell has told investigators that Matt made her feel "special" though she didn't say she was in love with him, a source familiar with the investigation said.Her husband and prison co-worker, Lyle Mitchell, is also under investigation, but has not been arrested or charged, authorities said. He worked in the maintenance department at the tailoring block where his spouse was employed, Clinton County District Attorney Andrew Wylie said.Lyle Mitchell has worked at the prison since 2005, most recently as an industrial training supervisor, the same title his wife held.Lyle Mitchell cried when allegations surfaced against his wife, according to a friend who did not want to be named. The friend said Lyle Mitchell asked how his wife could do such a thing.How did she allegedly help convicts?Joyce Mitchell provided hacksaw blades, drill bits and lighted eyeglasses to the convicts before their escape, sources said.The hacksaw blades and other items given to Matt were purchased over the past few months, according to law enforcement sources.Matt and Sweat used power tools to cut through cell walls. Despite the time, effort and noise likely involved, authorities didn't learn anything was amiss until a bed check at 5:30 a.m. Saturday.Authorities believe the fugitives are continuing their escape as a pair.Relationship investigatedState Department of Corrections officials had received a complaint about the relationship between Joyce Mitchell and one of the two escapees. The department didn't find enough evidence to support the complaint, though that does not mean the inmate and prison worker weren't close."I don't believe that the information was that there was absolutely no relationship," said Wylie, the district attorney.Mitchell's next court appearance is Monday.On Saturday, she was transferred from the Clinton County Jail about 150 miles south to the Rensselaer County Correctional Facility.The move was meant to avoid the distraction of jailing her near the massive manhunt, Clinton County Sheriff David Favro said.Photos: Famous manhunts Photos: Famous manhunts Guards in an upstate New York prison found the cells of convicted murderers Richard Matt, left, and David Sweat empty during an early morning bed check on June 6, 2015. Three weeks later, Matt was shot and killed by police officers near the Canadian border. Sweat was captured in the same area two days later, ending a massive and costly manhunt. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts State troopers escort Eric Matthew Frein from the state police barracks in Blooming Grove, Pennsylvania, on October 31, 2014. Frein, who is accused of killing a Pennsylvania state trooper and wounding another, was found at an abandoned airport near Tannersville, Pennsylvania, authorities said. He had been on the run for nearly two months. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Edward Snowden, the man who leaked top-secret details about U.S. surveillance programs, has been charged with three felony counts, including violations of the U.S. Espionage Act. He left the United States and hid out in Hong Kong until WikiLeaks helped him move to Moscow, where he lived in an airport for about five weeks before being granted temporary asylum in Russia in August 2013. Snowden has said he is afraid he would not get a fair trial if he came back to the United States. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Convicted mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger spent more than a decade on the FBI's "Most Wanted" list before being arrested in June 2011 in Santa Monica, California. The jury in his federal racketeering trial found him guilty on 31 of 32 counts -- including involvement in 11 murders -- in August 2013. He is currently serving two consecutive life sentences in prison. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Eric Toth, a former private school teacher and camp counselor, was on the FBI's "Ten Most Wanted" fugitives list when he was captured in Nicaragua in April 2013. The investigation into the suspected child predator began in June 2008 after pornographic images of children were found on a school camera that had allegedly been in his possession. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Boston was on edge for days during a massive manhunt for the suspects responsible for the marathon bombings in April 2013. Finally, authorities apprehended Dzhokhar Tsarnaev after an overnight shootout with police that resulted in the death of his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev. A federal jury sentenced Tsarnaev to death in May 2015 for his involvement in the bombings that killed three and injured more than 260 people. Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Former Los Angeles police officer Christopher Dorner, accused of killing four people, led police on a chase lasting days before he was tracked to a hideout in the San Bernardino Mountains. He took his own life in February 2013. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Ted Bundy raped and murdered dozens of women across the country in the 1970s. He escaped from prison twice but was captured after being stopped for driving a stolen car in 1978. He was executed in Florida in 1989. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts The FBI is still searching for Abdul Rahman Yasin, a suspect in the February 26, 1993, World Trade Center bombing that killed six and injured more than 1,000 people in New York. Six other suspects were convicted in the attack. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Eric Robert Rudolph -- who was convicted of a string of bombings, including one at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta -- eluded capture until 2003. He was arrested in Murphy, North Carolina, and is serving four consecutive life sentences plus 120 years. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Once a fixture on the FBI's "Most Wanted" list, al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed by U.S. Navy SEALs in an Abbottabad, Pakistan, compound on May 2, 2011. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Famous manhunts Lovebird bandits Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow are believed to have committed 13 murders and several robberies and burglaries before they were ambushed and killed by police in 1934. Hide Caption 12 of 12Intensified searchMore than 800 state, local and federal law enforcement officers are searching for the escapees, New York State Police said. They have been following more than 700 leads developed in the weeklong manhunt.Tracking dogs picked up the scent of both prisoners at a gas station and followed it east toward the town of Cadyville, Wylie said. The gas station has a Subway sandwich shop, and the two might have been rummaging for food in the trash bin, authorities said."It could have been something that occurred earlier in the week," the district attorney said Friday of when the scent was left. "But we're hoping that it was two nights ago, and they're closing in on the two men right now."Sweat was serving a life sentence with no chance of parole in the murder of a Broome County sheriff's deputy in 2002, and Matt was sentenced to 25 years to life in the kidnapping and murder of a man in 1997.As the woman who allegedly helped them escape sits in jail on bail, the search for the convicts has been going on since June 6.