Oak Creek, Wisconsin (CNN) When Pardeep Kaleka heard about the church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina, grief and terror came flooding back to him.For nearly three years he has had to live with sorrow and uncertainty, ever since the day a gunman opened fire at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin."That day six people lost their life and one suffered significant injuries and is in a vegetative state to this day," Kaleka said. "My dad was one of them."Like the nine African-Americans shot to death last week at Charleston's Emanuel AME Church, the Sikhs of the temple in Oak Creek were victims of hatred.Pardeep Kaleka's father, Satwant Kaleka, was president and founder of the temple in this Milwaukee suburb. He was fatally shot in the August 5, 2012, attack while trying to fight off the gunman, Wade Michael Page.Page, a white supremacist, killed himself with a bullet to the head after police shot him in the stomach.Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Members of the Akhil Bharatiya Human Rights Organization hold placards and candles during a vigil in Amritsar, India, on Tuesday, August 7, as they pay tribute to Sikh devotees killed in the U.S. The tragedy of the Wisconsin Sikh temple shooting has reverberated worldwide. Hide Caption 1 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Sikhs gather at Washington's Lafayette Park, across from the White House, for a Night of Remembrance of the Wisconsin Gurdwara Shootings on Wednesday, August 8. The man on the left is holding a poster of Oak Creek Police Officer Lt. Brian Murphy, who was shot multiple times as he pursued the gunman. Hide Caption 2 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Photos of the victims are displayed during a candlelight vigil Wednesday in New York's Union Square. Six people were killed in the shooting Sunday, August 5, near Milwaukee. Hide Caption 3 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – A woman from the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin mourns during a candlelight vigil Tuesday, August 7, at the Oak Creek Community Center in Oak Creek, Wisconsin. Hide Caption 4 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Mourners and supporters of the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin attend the vigil at the Oak Creek Community Center on Tuesday night. Hide Caption 5 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Mourners continue to hold vigils such as the one Tuesday at the Oak Creek Community Center after the carnage left the local Sikh community reeling. Hide Caption 6 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Peggy Renner-Howell bows her head after laying flowers Tuesday at a makeshift memorial near the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin in Oak Creek. Hide Caption 7 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – A man visits the makeshift memorial near the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin on Tuesday. Hide Caption 8 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Members of Wisconsin's Sikh community conduct a candlelight vigil on Monday, August 6, for the six people killed in suburban Milwaukee. Hide Caption 9 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, along with members of the Sikh community, attends Monday's vigil at the Sikh Religious Society of Wisconsin for the victims of the shooting at the Sikh temple. Hide Caption 10 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Hundreds of mourners gathered at the Sikh Religious Society of Wisconsin on Monday, August 6. The mourners pray for their neighbors killed in the attack on a Sikh temple. Hide Caption 11 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Members of the Miwaukee-area Sikh community gather to learn information about the shooting spree of Wade Michael Page, 40, on Monday, August 6 in Oak Creek, Wisconsin. Hide Caption 12 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – A member of the Miwaukee-area Sikh community weeps as he listens to information about the shooting spree. Hide Caption 13 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Harpreet Singh, left, and Amardeep Kaleka, right, whose father, temple President Satwant Kaleka, was killed in Sunday's shooting, cry during a news conference in Oak Creek. Hide Caption 14 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Amardeep Kaleka is consoled at the command center near the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin on Monday. Hide Caption 15 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – News crews report Monday from outside Page's home in Cudahy, Wisconsin. Hide Caption 16 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – People console each other on Monday at the command center near the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin. Hide Caption 17 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – SWAT officers surround a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, where a gunman whom authorities identified as Wade Michael Page, 40, stormed the building and opened fire on August 5. The incident left six people and the gunman dead. Hide Caption 18 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – SWAT officers gather in front of the temple Sunday. The attack occurred about 10:30 a.m., when temple members were reading scriptures and cooking food. Hide Caption 19 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – People wait for information in front of the temple as law enforcement officers secure the area. Hide Caption 20 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Police work outside the entrance to the temple, near Milwaukee. Hide Caption 21 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Police man an armored vehicle outside the temple. Hide Caption 22 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – A tactical officer runs to position as SWAT officers surround the temple. Hide Caption 23 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – A woman wipes away a tear outside the Sikh temple. Hide Caption 24 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – People wait for word on family and friends in front of the Sikh temple. The Oak Creek temple, or gurdwara, opened in 2007. Hide Caption 25 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Police coordinate outside the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin, where the rampage took place. Hide Caption 26 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – A police officer directs people near the temple. Hide Caption 27 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – An officer works to secure a neighborhood in Cudahy, Wisconsin, on Sunday. Hide Caption 28 of 29 Photos: Shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin Shooting at Sikh temple in Wisconsin – Officers take cover behind a vehicle as they secure the neighborhood where the shooter is believed to have lived in Cudahy, Wisconsin. Hide Caption 29 of 29To honor his father, Pardeep Kaleka wrought a legacy out of the horror."It's made me a better husband, father, a better activist, a better person overall," the son said.But the sense of safety has changed. Guards are posted at the temple these days. And the attack left Kaleka with deep psychological scars.Photos: Photos: Funeral for Sikh shooting victims Photos: Photos: Funeral for Sikh shooting victims Funeral for Sikh shooting victims – Mourners embrace at a memorial service Friday, August 10, for the six people killed in last weekend's shooting at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin. Family and friends gathered at Oak Creek High School in suburban Milwaukee. Hide Caption 1 of 11 Photos: Photos: Funeral for Sikh shooting victims Funeral for Sikh shooting victims – Mourners walk past a row of hearses outside Oak Creek High School on Friday as family and friends gather to pay their respects to the shooting victims. Hide Caption 2 of 11 Photos: Photos: Funeral for Sikh shooting victims Funeral for Sikh shooting victims – Mourners stand near a photo of one of the victims during Friday's memorial. Hide Caption 3 of 11 Photos: Photos: Funeral for Sikh shooting victims Funeral for Sikh shooting victims – A woman clasps her hands as she attends the service. Hide Caption 4 of 11 Photos: Photos: Funeral for Sikh shooting victims Funeral for Sikh shooting victims – Family members escort one of the six caskets into the public visitation Friday as family, friends and supporters pay respect to the victims of the mass shooting at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin. Hide Caption 5 of 11 Photos: Photos: Funeral for Sikh shooting victims Funeral for Sikh shooting victims – Mourners hug as community members pay respect at the Oak Creek High School. Suspected gunman, 40-year-old Wade Michael Page, is accused of killing six people at the temple on August 5. He killed himself at the scene. Three others were critically wounded in the attack. Hide Caption 6 of 11 Photos: Photos: Funeral for Sikh shooting victims Funeral for Sikh shooting victims – Two women hug at the funeral. Hide Caption 7 of 11 Photos: Photos: Funeral for Sikh shooting victims Funeral for Sikh shooting victims – A casket arrives for the memorial service. Hide Caption 8 of 11 Photos: Photos: Funeral for Sikh shooting victims Funeral for Sikh shooting victims – Members of the Sikh community carry a casket into the high school for the service. Hide Caption 9 of 11 Photos: Photos: Funeral for Sikh shooting victims Funeral for Sikh shooting victims – Family and friends gather at Oak Creek High School to mourn. Hide Caption 10 of 11 Photos: Photos: Funeral for Sikh shooting victims Funeral for Sikh shooting victims – Two women hug at the service as they mourn the loss of the victims. Hide Caption 11 of 11"No longer can I just assume that it's going to end up well. I sometimes assume it's going to be the worst. For me, tattooed white males set off some kind of trigger in me where I'm like, oh, OK, that person is going to start shooting up the Starbucks. The mall. There's an assumption of guilt. That is tragic that we have to live like that."But to me it's beautiful that we have to live like that. Because I take nothing for granted," he said.Kaleka also has taken it upon himself to learn more about the mentality responsible for that terrible day in 2012.JUST WATCHED Volunteers help temple mourners cope Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Volunteers help temple mourners cope 01:43"We as a society need to be fearless. You know, I didn't want to understand white supremacist ideology right after this happened. But then I had to say, OK, be courageous and see what is behind some of this hate. And a lot of times, you find out what is behind hate is fear," Kaleka said.Kaleka used to be a police officer. He is a first-generation immigrant whose parents brought him to this country from India. The couple sought a better life for their children. They worked very hard for it, especially his father.JUST WATCHED Temple shooting devastates Sikhs Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Temple shooting devastates Sikhs 02:45"When he was deceased I looked at his hands and I saw all the callouses that were on them," he said. "And you looked down at his feet and you see how hard they probably worked to get to where he needed to get in this country."His father was committed to helping his fellow Sikhs fulfill their dream of having a safe place to observe their faith in their community.Now a trustee of the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin, the son has picked up the father's mantle and works to make his city better.Just as Christianity, Sikhism preaches forgiveness.For Sikhs, the act of forgiveness is considered a divine gift; because people cannot take personal credit for the ability to forgive, they have no standing to be prideful."We all play a role in eliminating hate," Kaleka said, noting that hatred seems to be growing worse in America."We as a society have become too comfortably complacent, and what I mean by that is that people are getting stuck in a routine," he said. "As long as nothing interrupts that routine, we think that the world around us and the community around us is doing fine."Hatred is sneaky in that way. It will take comfortable complacency and use it and consume it and create more and more hate. I see the biggest vehicle for creating hate is social media," he added.Healing that hatred is going to take more than just removing a flag, he said."We generally want to say oh, OK, there's just one thing that is wrong with this and if we eliminate that, then somehow, some way, we can come to a solution," Kaleka said."We can think about it as a kind of wound, and the deeper the cut, the longer it's gonna take to heal."